____________________________________________________________

2 Decades After Jam Master Jay's Killing, Trial of 2 Men Is Set to Begin in Brooklyn: [National Desk]

Author: Zraick, Karen; Abrams, Jonathan; Schweber, Nate

Publication info: Zraick, Karen; Abrams, Jonathan; Schweber, Nate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-decades-after-jam-master-jays-killing-trial-men/docview/2919260110/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The killing of Jam Master Jay, the Run-DMC D.J., sent shock waves through hip-hop. On Monday, two men will stand trial on charges of murdering him.
More than 20 years after the hip-hop D.J. Jam Master Jay was gunned down in his Queens recording studio, two men charged in the killing will face a federal jury in Brooklyn in a trial set to start Monday.
Jam Master Jay, whose real name was Jason Mizell, of the seminal group Run-DMC, was 37 when he died in a crime that remained unresolved for nearly two decades. The two defendants, Karl Jordan Jr., 40, and Ronald Washington, 59, were charged in 2020, when federal prosecutors accused them of plotting to kill Mr. Mizell after he cut Mr. Washington out of a drug deal. A third man, Jay Bryant, who was also charged in connection with the murder last year, will be tried separately.
Prosecutors said that the defendants burst into the studio with guns on the evening of Oct. 30, 2002. Mr. Jordan then approached Mr. Mizell, firing two shots at him at close range, they say. One of the bullets struck Mr. Mizell in the head; another man was wounded in the leg. Four other people were in the studio at the time, but none identified the killers immediately after the shooting.
The jury in the trial of Mr. Washington and Mr. Jordan will be anonymous: Their names will not be revealed to the defendants or their lawyers. In court papers filed this month, prosecutors said the defendants and "those acting on their behalf" had already tried to intimidate witnesses in the case.
Mr. Washington, also known as Tinard, has already served significant jail time for crimes including heroin distribution and armed robbery. Mr. Jordan, known as Little D, who was 18 when Mr. Mizell was killed, had no adult criminal record when he was arrested in 2020, though prosecutors said in a filing that he had been in the drug trade for years before then. The 2020 indictment included several additional narcotics distribution counts against Mr. Jordan.
The defendants and Mr. Mizell grew up in Hollis, Queens -- a neighborhood that produced some of the biggest names in early hip-hop.
Prosecutors said that Mr. Mizell had been involved in transporting large quantities of cocaine to sell in the New York area for about six years when he was killed. Three months before the shooting, he had acquired 10 kilograms of cocaine on consignment from a dealer in the Midwest, according to court papers. The government said that Mr. Jordan, Mr. Washington and other co-conspirators were going to distribute the drugs.
But after a dispute between Mr. Washington and one of the co-conspirators, Mr. Mizell sought to cut him out of the transaction. That spurred Mr. Washington to conspire with Mr. Jordan to murder Mr. Mizell, prosecutors said.
The charges carry a minimum sentence of 20 years -- and a maximum of life in prison. Attorney General Merrick B. Garland directed prosecutors in the Eastern District of New York, where the trial is being held, not to seek the death penalty.
The sudden death of a figure who had been known for upbeat hip-hop music -- far from the gangsta rap that came to dominate the genre in later years -- sent shock waves through the rap world that continue to this day. The case has been chronicled in several documentaries, articles and books.
Run-DMC, whose members along with Mr. Mizell included Joseph Simmons, known as Run, and Darryl McDaniels, known as DMC, brought hip-hop to the mainstream in the mid-1980s. They were the first rappers featured prominently on MTV, sold millions of records and signed an early deal with Adidas, whose sneakers Mr. Mizell made part of the group's look.
"You could say he was like the Ringo Starr of hip-hop D.J.s, because Run-DMC were like the Beatles of hip-hop," said Bill Adler, a former head of publicity for Def Jam, the record company co-founded by Mr. Simmons's brother Russell.
Mr. Adler added that Mr. Mizell had a strong influence on the group's signature street style, which included brimmed Stetson hats, Adidas shoes without laces and leather jackets.
Dan Charnas, a hip-hop journalist and professor at New York University, said that hip-hop's heart was cut out when Mr. Mizell died.
"That's the dude who made it possible for this new musical archetype to rise," he said. "A dude who was friendly pretty much to everybody, who represented a more innocent time where there weren't these types of beefs that turned violent like Tupac's and Big's."
A mural of Mr. Mizell is painted on a wall near the corner of 205th Street and Hollis Avenue in Queens, where many residents said they still felt the effects of his music and legacy. The musician Akil Wright, who performs under the name Get Wright DOLO, walked by on Wednesday in Adidas sneakers that Run-DMC inspired him to wear.
"Artists like him created artists like me," said Mr. Wright, 31, a lifelong Hollis resident.
Debra McKnight, 64, remembered all three members of Run-DMC hanging out in her kitchen in the 1970s; they were friends with her son. She said she appreciated that Mr. Mizell had stayed in Hollis.
"He didn't forget where he came from," she said.
Jam Master Jay and his Run-DMC mates were the first celebrities Jubar Jones, 50, ever met, he said. It was the early '80s, and Mr. Jones tagged along with his older brother to a basement party near the Baisley Park Houses in Queens, where he was introduced to the group. Mr. Jones, who works at a UPS warehouse, said the connection between Run-DMC and Hollis gave him and his peers a sense of being special.
"It feels like a part of history," he said.
Mr. Jones cataloged the way Run-DMC changed music, fashion and culture. As for Jam Master Jay, Mr. Jones called him a "trendsetter," a "forefather of hip-hop" and a "pioneer of beats."
"He's a legend around here," Mr. Jones said. "He's like a father figure, a guardian."
Photograph Run-DMC, including Jason Mizell, a.k.a. Jam Master Jay, near left, in 1988. The group brought hip-hop to the mainstream. Mr. Mizell was 37 was he was fatally shot in 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Cocaine; Indictments; Rap music; Fatalities; Shootings; Robbery; Hip hop music; Trials; Public prosecutors; Murders & murder attempts

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Mizell, Jason (Jam Master Jay)

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Run-DMC; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/29/nyregion/jam-master-jay-murder-trial.html

Title: 2 Decades After Jam Master Jay's Killing, Trial of 2 Men Is Set to Begin in Brooklyn:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 29, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2919260110

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-decades-after-jam-master-jays-killing-trial-men/docview/2919260110/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Calista Flockhart Flutters Into a Vipers' Nest: [Style Desk]

Author: Dowd, Maureen

Publication info: Dowd, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-flutters-into-vipers-nest/docview/2918856550/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On a chilly January weekend in Los Angeles, I turned into a truffle pig. I foraged relentlessly all over town, looking for truffle fries.
By Monday, when it was time to go to my interview, the only thing in my suitcase I could squeeze into was a Spanx dress.
"My sister gave me this for Christmas," I explained sheepishly to the famously lissome Calista Flockhart as I slid into a booth on the terrace of the Georgian Hotel. "I guess you've never owned any Spanx."
"I love Spanx!" she said. "In fact, I just ordered -- no kidding -- a pair of Spanx jeans. They make really cute jeans. They're very wide."
Seeing my skeptical look, she reminded me: "It's not only about sucking it all in. It's about smoothing it all the way. No panty lines."
And then, as we sat in this romantic spot, looking out at the ocean, she said the thing that made me fall in love: "Would you like to nibble on something? How about some French fries?"
And suddenly I realized how much I had missed the woman who shot to mega-stardom in the late 1990s as Ally McBeal, the quirky Boston lawyer with miniskirts and maxi-neuroses -- a role she reprised at the Emmys this month, doing a whimsical dance with her male former co-stars on a set resembling the show's fabled unisex bathroom, with Barry White on the soundtrack.
Ms. Flockhart virtually disappeared from stage and screen at the height of her stardom, riding off into the Brentwood sunset with another star, Harrison Ford. She had dropped out to be a mom, to focus on raising Liam, the baby son she had adopted a year before meeting Mr. Ford.
Now, at 59, she's back, playing a bouffanted Lee Radziwill in Ryan Murphy's latest nest of vipers, "Feud: Capote vs. the Swans," the new season of his FX anthology series. Mr. Murphy has described it as "the original 'Real Housewives."'
For 30 pieces of silver, and to satisfy his literary ambitions, Truman Capote turned on his beloved swans, the willowy women who reigned over New York society in the '50s and '60s, in a sable-lined world of champagne, cigarette holders and Porthault sheets.
As the show makes clear, the swans feared and loathed two things: bad lighting and younger women. They relished sharing a good bottle of Pouilly-Fumé at lunch while administering "a collection of cool scalpel cuts without the benefit of anesthesia" on their friends, and then going home to sleep it off.
I asked Ms. Flockhart if she would have liked to lunch with this haut monde group.
"Maybe once," she replied. "I felt very sorry for them. Here they are, the toast of New York -- rich, jewels, apartments, houses in the country, houses in Europe. They travel all the time on private planes. They have yachts. They are dictating what is in and what is not. Underneath all that, they were very sad, very lonely and really unhappy women."
As the Truman character tells his lover on the way to La Côte Basque for lunch with his swans: "Some swans actually drown under the beauty and weight of their fantastical, superficial plumage. They just can't keep going."
Wielding the excuse that writers must write, Mr. Capote betrayed the elegant Ladies Who Lunched by revealing all their seamy Upper East Side secrets -- from adultery to alleged murder -- in a 1975 Esquire article, "La Côte Basque, 1965." In it, he referred to Lee and her sister, Jackie Kennedy, as "a pair of Western geisha girls."
The exposé was society's version of the "Oppenheimer" explosion. Capote -- perhaps afraid that his talent had gone cold after "In Cold Blood"; perhaps avenging his mother, a Southern belle who had abandoned him to try in vain to break into Manhattan society -- planned it as an execution.
"There's the handle, the trigger, the barrel and, finally, the bullet," he told People magazine about "Answered Prayers," the expanded book version of his piece, which was not published in his lifetime. "And when that bullet is fired from the gun, it's going to come out with a speed and power like you've never seen -- WHAM!"
Five decades later, Ms. Flockhart joins a flock of big-name actresses on the latest installment of Mr. Murphy's "Feud." Naomi Watts plays the No. 1 swan, a tortured Babe Paley, who was considered by Mr. Capote to be the most perfect woman ever made; Diane Lane is Slim Keith, who pushes to ostracize the Judas writer; Chloë Sevigny is the society doyenne C.Z. Guest; Molly Ringwald is a sweet West Coast swan, Joanne Carson, Johnny's ex; and Demi Moore is Ann Woodward, a showgirl who shot her banking-heir husband to death but was never charged because she claimed she had mistaken him for a burglar -- an excuse Mr. Capote airily dismissed.
Jessica Lange plays the ghost of Mr. Capote's mother, an alcoholic who killed herself in 1954; the phantom savors his takedown of the breed of women who had rejected her. And in portraying the Puck of Fifth Avenue, Tom Hollander manages the impossible, holding his high-pitched own against Philip Seymour Hoffman, the star of the acclaimed 2005 film "Capote."
Ms. Radziwill, our own Princess Margaret and an O.G. influencer, poured her heart out to Mr. Capote, telling him about her disintegrating marriage, about being overshadowed by Jackie, and about Jackie's purloining her beau, Aristotle Onassis. "My God: how jealous she is of Jackie," Mr. Capote wrote in a letter in 1962 to Cecil Beaton. "I never knew." He tried to help her be an actress, writing the teleplay for a new version of the classic Gene Tierney movie "Laura" in 1968, but that was a fiasco.
Ms. Radziwill called Tru her "Answered Prayer" and engraved those words for him on a cigarette case lined with gold. He took her term of endearment and made it the title of his devastating book.
As the show depicts, the writer repaid all that intimacy by setting a bonfire to the swans' vanities -- the alcohol, the anorexia, the plastic surgery, the straying husbands, not to mention the streak of feral bitchiness, which matched his own. "La Côte Basque, 1965" may have finished off New York society, but it also finished off Mr. Capote, who spiraled further into alcoholism and died nine years later without having regained his seat at the table.
Mr. Murphy said that Ms. Flockhart had always been at the top of his list to play Ms. Radziwill, because he'd heard tales of her brilliant stage performances as a young woman.
"Lee Radziwill was, of all of them, the most viperous and the darkest, the most in pain," he said. "She was the most famous -- American royalty. I wasn't sure that Calista, who had been Ally McBeal and really had a reputation of being America's sweetheart, girl-next-door, would want to do something like that at this point in her life. But she said yes with no hesitation. She really went for it, which I admired. She was sharp and dagger-like.
"She was also so kind and prepared and helpful," he continued. "And I took her out to see Isaac Mizrahi at a Valentine's Day concert at Café Carlyle, and she was just a good-time girl. Hilarious and fun."
People who have worked with Ms. Flockhart describe her as shy, dryly funny and thoughtful about sending flowers and gifts to support staff members. She is not vain and prefers not to look at herself, either on television or in the mirror.
"She has a kind of molecular pixie dust," said her old friend, the playwright, television writer and actor Jon Robin Baitz. "It sort of courses through her veins. It makes her capable of the greatest thing an actor can do, which is to surprise you."
Mr. Baitz worked with Ms. Flockhart more than a decade ago on the ABC drama "Brothers and Sisters," a show he created. He is also a co-writer, with Mr. Murphy, of the new "Feud," and plays Ms. Radziwill's third husband, the director Herbert Ross, on the show. Mr. Baitz called Ms. Flockhart "the master of the panicked comic glance."
"When someone does something weird, she will catch your eye, widen hers and exude, 'Get me out of here!'" he said. "Then go back to an absolutely neutral expression. She has perfect comic timing."
Greg Berlanti, a writer and executive producer of "Brothers and Sisters," said that when the cast had its top-of-the-season meeting -- in which actors typically push to shape their characters' arcs -- Ms. Flockhart had only wanted to check the calendar to make sure she could attend important school events for her son.
"She always reminds me of a Golden Age star," he said. "She just has that Rosalind Russell, Kate Hepburn kind of feel, where she's strong and sexy and smart and bubbly." Like an old-school star, she is enigmatic, with flashes of screwball, but Mr. Berlanti said that she's also "like a rock. She survived a lot of scrutiny and I think has a really well-balanced life to show for it."
Ms. Flockhart said she loved the "Feud" costumes -- "I should have lived in the '60s, for sure" -- but she does not share the swans' dedication to the Best Dressed List.
"I'm not going to wear a purse that says Gucci all over it, because that just seems strange," she said. "I'm also just very frugal. I have some really beautiful designer clothes, but 90 percent of my wardrobe is from Nordstrom. Just what's comfortable, what works."
She made the very un-Lee Radziwill decision to wear a 24-year-old canary yellow Ralph Lauren maxi-skirt to the premiere of "Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny" in June. She had first worn it to the 1999 Emmys, when "Ally McBeal" took the award for top comedy.
She and Mr. Ford make a glamorous team on the red carpet. I asked her why she hadn't gone to the Golden Globes with him the night before -- the scene of their first meeting 22 years ago.
They had a lot of awards things coming up, she said, "so I opted to stay home, big bowl of popcorn, and we watched a lot of football. Liam was there. My dogs were there." She flipped between the Buffalo Bills and the Globes.
Her personal style is casual. "I have a uniform," she said. "I switch from a gray sweater to a black sweater back to the gray sweater to a black sweater." (Her longtime stylist, Elizabeth Stewart, said Ms. Flockhart's "main style concern is that she's warm. I tell her I'll get her a wet suit to wear under her gown.")
On this windy day, she is wearing loose-fit Levi's, a white T-shirt, an oversize Jenni Kayne gray sweater and Adidas sneakers. She sports a large diamond engagement ring -- "My husband has very good taste, I would say" -- and a colorful beaded bracelet.
"I think it's a Pride bracelet," she said, "but it might not be."
She looks Ally-young, more like a graduate student in English literature (her mother was an English teacher) than a woman closing in on 60. I gazed into her eyes to see if they matched Mr. Capote's description of Lee Radziwill's as "a glass of brandy resting on a table in front of firelight."
"It depends on the light," she said. "Green-brown. Hazel. Sometimes brown. Sometimes beige."
Although Jackie Kennedy is featured in only one scene in the show, Ms. Flockhart said she had read up on Lee's competitive relationship with her older sister.
"Truman Capote recognized that she was living in her sister's shadow," the actress said, "and he would say things: 'You're so much prettier. You're so much smarter. You're more interesting. You have better style.' She really needed to hear that. I think it made her really love Truman. He was fun, and she confided in him, like they all did."
Does she have a squad like the swans?
"I have four really good friends that I've had since my son was in kindergarten, and then I have two other ones," she said. "All mothers. Our kids were friends. It's been 16 years, and I feel like they're my army. There through thick and thin."
But she doesn't have lunch with them because, she said, "I hate going to lunch. I love going to dinner. I'll even do breakfast. But to spend my time in the middle of the day at lunch is not my thing."
Mr. Murphy appreciates that Ms. Flockhart and some of the other actresses playing swans had shared the experience in the '90s of "being a young person and wanting to be a star and famous, and then you get sucked up in that system and it's not all it cracked up to be. It's hard. They were both revered and punished. They got through the gauntlet of a tremendous amount of tabloid journalism."
When I told Ms. Flockhart this, she agreed. "Yes, it seems a lifetime ago," she said. "I have a lot of distance and perspective, and I'm still incredulous. I cannot believe that I was scrutinized and pursued like that. It was intense and it was unfair."
David E. Kelley, the creator of "Ally McBeal," said he had become interested in Ms. Flockhart because of her appealing turn as Gene Hackman's daughter in Mike Nichols's drag celebration, "The Birdcage." She was an instant success and a cultural lightning rod when "Ally McBeal" debuted in 1997. Some feminists complained that the character was too ditsy and man-crazy and that her skirts were too short.
Ms. Flockhart recalled how casually that wardrobe decision had been made: "I said to the costume designer: 'It either has to be long or short. It can't be in the middle, because that doesn't make my leg look good.' She said, 'OK, let's go short.' I said, 'Cool, let's go short.' And then all of a sudden there was this huge short-skirt scandal, which was really fun."
That didn't bother her, although she was taken aback by a 1998 Time magazine cover that showed headshots of Susan B. Anthony, Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem alongside a picture of Ally McBeal above the query "Is Feminism Dead?" Nancy Friday, the late author on female sexuality, was quoted: "Ally McBeal is a mess. She's like a little animal. You want to put her on a leash."
Ms. Flockhart recalled: "I don't think I was hurt. I was surprised. I thought, this is just a character that is invented out of a man's mind to entertain. I don't think I saw it as such a statement. I was just trying to remember my lines."
Mr. Kelley concurred: The character "was a cocktail of good and bad and fragile and strong emotions and attitudes. When I saw the cover of that magazine, oh, man, I just wanted to crawl into a hole, because that was never our intent to be proffering the character of Ally McBeal as a beacon of either feminism or womanhood at the time."
He noted that, as an actor withstanding an avalanche of publicity, and as a woman, adopting a baby while she was single (as his own wife, Michelle Pfeiffer, did), Ms. Flockhart was always "a very brave person."
Far from killing feminism, Ally inspired many young career women to stop imitating men at the office in how they acted and dressed and emoted -- or didn't. She rebutted the idea, then in fashion, that any display of "female behavior," talk of clothes or dates or babies, was a mark against women. She was a proponent of the idea -- later reinforced by "Sex and the City" -- that femininity and feminism weren't mutually exclusive.
"Now we can be who we are and still run the world," Ms. Flockhart told me.
I worried at the time that several of the actresses in Mr. Kelley's universe -- Ms. Flockhart, Lara Flynn Boyle, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Portia de Rossi -- were getting too thin. Ms. Thorne-Smith and Ms. de Rossi later talked about their 300-calorie-a-day eating disorders.
Ms. Flockhart said she had been hurt by chatter about whether she had anorexia.
"I don't think that would ever happen today," she said. (Especially in an Ozempic-chic time, when Oprah and a hefty slice of Hollywood are getting as skinny as Ally.) "They call it body-shaming now. I haven't thought about it in a long time, but it's really not OK to accuse someone of having a disease that a lot of people struggle with.
"It wasn't the case, and there was nothing I could do to convince anybody or get out of it. If I had worn a big padded bra, they probably would never have been able to target me in that way. I look back at pictures, and I'm the same then as I am now, and nobody says a word now. I was an easy target, I guess. It was painful, it was complicated. I loved working on 'Ally McBeal,' and it just made it sour. I was very sleep-deprived and I was depressed about it. I did think that it was going to ruin my career. I didn't think anybody would ever hire me again, because they would just assume I had anorexia, and that would be the end of that."
"Clearly," she continued, "I had days where I was really hurt and embarrassed and infuriated. I was lucky that I had to work. I just put my head down. I always felt like, 'Calista, you're a good person, you're not mean to anybody,' and I'm confident in that."
She added: "I honestly have never been in a situation where I have to watch my weight. My mom is 4-11 now, and she weighed 93 pounds when she was married. Talk about a little tiny elf. I just have small bones, and I just am lucky."
Another stressful element was the kerfuffle around Robert Downey Jr., who joined the cast in its fourth season, as a fellow lawyer and love interest. He and Ms. Flockhart had great chemistry; the ratings spiked, and he won a Golden Globe. But he was fired the next year, after he was arrested on drug charges.
"We were such good friends, and I loved acting with him," Ms. Flockhart said. Lately, they have been attending the same awards shows, as Mr. Downey collects laurels for his role as Lewis Strauss in "Oppenheimer." "I am really happy for him," she added.
Asked about the talk of an "Ally McBeal" revival, she said, "I would definitely consider it."
On the family drama "Brothers and Sisters," she played a pundit inspired by me, in reverse. Her character, Kitty Walker, was a conservative who tangled with her liberal siblings and her mom, played by Sally Field.
"So how was that, playing me?" I asked.
"It was amazing," she deadpanned. "It was the best ever."
I wondered if you could even have a show about "a tender conservative" in the era of Donald Trump.
"Now there's a whole different polarization happening, obviously," she said. She added that she hates the politicization of climate change and finds the conservative rollback on women's rights "infuriating."
I have done interviews over the years with married stars, like Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward, and the ego management seems hard. But somehow Ms. Flockhart and Mr. Ford seem to have maintained a romantic and playful relationship.
"They get a kick out of each other," Mr. Baitz said.
They hold hands on the red carpet; they get caught on camera canoodling at the airport as they shuttle between Brentwood and their ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyo.; and they play practical jokes on each other.
"I'm called the 'Scare Monster' in my house because I hide behind every corner," she said. "And so Harrison will walk in, and then I'll go, 'Raaah!' And he'll go, 'W-uy-aah!' And then I die laughing. I'll put a plastic spider inside his big ice cubes in the tray, and then he'll drink it. But then I'll go to bed two weeks later, and he's out of town in Jackson, and I'll take the covers down and there's this little rubber scorpion. It's fun."
She mused that one of the reasons that it has worked is because she was "really content being home" as a full-time mom. "I didn't have the same dreams at the time, so we weren't competing with each other."
"We're very independent of each other in some ways," she added, "and probably incredibly codependent on each other in others."
Her independence startled him at first. "It scares him, I think, sometimes," she said, laughing. "When I first met him, he said, 'You are the most self-sufficient woman in the world, and I don't know how I feel about that.' I remember I said, 'What are you talking about?' Because I didn't recognize I was self-sufficient."
She added: "The other reason it works is, we're both pretty introverted. We stay home a lot, homebodies, which is nice."
He is known to bend the ears of dinner partners about how proud he is of her, as a mother and an actress. He told me he was "blown away" by her portrayal of the raging Martha in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" at the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles in 2022; he had never seen her onstage.
They have never worked together. "We've explored it a little bit, but it's never really happened," she said.
Ms. Flockhart, who played Helena in the 1999 film of "A Midsummer Night's Dream," has the ethereal air of a fairy queen who wandered out of the enchanted forest of Arden onto Santa Monica Boulevard. So I wasn't surprised when she said her favorite thing to do is get up at 5:30 a.m. when the moon is up and go for a hike with her dogs.
"It's my happy place," she said. "I love being in nature. I used to be a city girl. You couldn't take me out of the city. Now I just want to be quiet." In nature, she said, "your guard goes down. You don't have to look any way or feel any way. You just are."
She loves to read -- everything from Tolstoy and Chekhov to "Harry Potter."
She just reread the wizard's tale for the first time since Liam was little. "Harrison rolled over in bed," she said, "and he said, 'I have never seen you stay up until 3 o'clock in the morning to read a book."'
Her husband's hobbies are more physical. He started as a carpenter and has a workshop at home. I confessed to Ms. Flockhart that my girlfriends and I used to fantasize that Han Solo would come fix our kitchen cabinets. Does he fix hers?
"He built the table at the end of the bed for the TV to come up and out of," she said. "I can boss him around pretty much about everything. I'm not guaranteed that he'll do it. He has been exploring his carpentry roots lately, because he had more time with the strike."
These days, she leaves him to his more adventurous pursuits.
She no longer flies with him in small planes, following his 2015 crash on a Los Angeles golf course in a vintage World War II plane that suffered a mechanical failure. She rushed to the hospital and learned he had a shattered pelvis, a broken right ankle and a broken back.
"It might, in fact, be one of the worst things I've ever been through in my life," she said. "It was horrible." A couple of years later, Mr. Ford was climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. "I won't fly in any little plane," she said. "I'll only fly when he's in a jet, with a co-pilot."
She no longer goes motorcycle riding with him. "I went once, when I was young and stupid," she said. "We were riding on a highway in Jackson on the way to the airport, and the wind was so strong and the helmet was so heavy that I couldn't move my neck for three days."
What do they like to do as a couple?
"We loved watching 'Barry' together," she said. "When Liam was young, we all watched Hercule Poirot obsessively. We started doing some jigsaw puzzles during Covid."
She got certified in scuba diving for trips with Harrison and Liam to Bonaire in the Caribbean and Raja Ampat in Indonesia; she loves it because it's "so peaceful under the water."
Her favorite thing about her husband? "I love his sense of humor and I love it when he's tender with the dogs," she said. She has three: a 19-year-old Chihuahua, Muggs, and two terrier mixes, January and Juno.
I confessed that I had tried the trick she used to meet Mr. Ford -- spilling a drink on someone -- but just ended up with irritated guys. That meet-cute story is not quite accurate, as it turns out.
Ms. Flockhart told me her version of the night that is now part of Hollywood lore, and later, in a separate interview, Mr. Ford told me his.
They met at the 2002 Golden Globes. She was nominated for her role in "Ally McBeal," and he received the Cecil B. DeMille lifetime achievement award. She looked fetching in a strapless dress, designed for her by Oscar de la Renta, in shirred pink lace over a nude base, with ruffles cascading at the bottom.
Harrison: "I saw this lady. I asked my agent: 'Wow! Who's that girl?' He said, 'That's Calista Flockhart.' I said, 'Oh, what does she do?' He says, 'She's Ally McBeal.' I hadn't really seen it. I said, 'Well, could you introduce us?' He said, 'Yes."'
Calista: "Harrison came over to say hi. When he left, I said: 'Ugh, what a lascivious old man. What is he doing?' After the show, we started talking. Then I was really charmed by him."
Harrison: "I had this thing, the award, in my hand, and it was easier to hold upside down."
Calista: "I joked: 'Oh, what's that? A place for me to put my red wine?' Then, of course, because he's who he is and he can't hold still, he went, 'Ugh,' and then the red wine went everywhere. It didn't land on me. I was safe. It was all over him, maybe. Maybe on the floor, mostly."
Harrison: "She spilled wine on me, or I spilled wine on her or something, and that sort of sealed the deal. I said, 'Where do you live?' She said, 'I live in Brentwood.' I said: 'So do I. Would you want to have a drink?' She said, 'Well, maybe, but I have to bring my agent.' I said, 'OK, I'll bring my agent, too.' We went to the old Brentwood Bar and Grill and had a drink. I lured her up to my house and we danced, and then I took her home. Make sure you put that in the story. And we've sort of been together ever since."
Mr. Ford was not daunted by the idea of dating a new mother. "Didn't scare me off," he said. "When I met Liam, he was just beginning to walk, and it just didn't matter to me. I had four children already, and I can't count that well, so it didn't make that much difference."
And Ms. Flockhart was not daunted by the 22-year age gap. She said she often feels like the older one, adding drolly, "because he's so immature."
Mr. Ford has talked about how his career made him a worse parent, because he was traveling so much for work. How was he with Liam, I wondered.
"I think he was a really good father in a lot of ways, and maybe because he was on Round 2 or Round 3, so he had matured and grown up and, I think, evolved into being a good father," she said. "He's such a good father to his kids now. I love his kids, my stepkids."
Liam graduated from Amherst last year. "He's an academic, I think," said Ms. Flockhart, a Rutgers grad.
I ask if she knows the true story of how Mr. Ford got the scar on his chin (which made for a funny scene in Mike Nichols's "Working Girl.")
"I don't know if I can divulge it," she said. "Should I call and ask him?"
She phoned her husband. "Hi," she said. "Is it a secret how you got your scar on your chin? OK. Yes. Yes. Bye. Bye."
She turned to me: "It was a car crash on the way to work at Bullock's department store. He says he's lied about it many times." (In his 20s, Mr. Ford was an assistant buyer in the knickknacks and oil painting section of the Los Angeles store.)
As the sun began to set and the wind whipped up, we ordered chamomile tea to get warm.
"We've had to work," she said about her marriage. "We've had our ups, we've had downs like everybody else -- mostly ups, which is good -- and we just stay together. He's the person that I want to call when something happens. That knee-jerk thing where I have to call Harrison."
Confirm or Deny
Maureen Dowd: You and Harrison get into cosplay with your iconic characters, Indiana Jones and Ally McBeal.
Calista Flockhart: Deny!
The "Indiana Jones" bullwhip is in the bedroom drawer.
No. That's hilarious.
You use the bullwhip --
Deny. Deny. Deny. One hundred percent deny.
You made Harrison get rid of his earring.
Deny. It's long gone. That was a passing fad.
Every time Harrison drops an F-bomb, you make him put a dollar in the swear jar.
Not a bad idea, but deny. I always say, "Seriously?" But then, I can drop the F-bomb like nobody's business, too.
The dancing baby on "Ally McBeal" still gives you nightmares.
Deny. I always remember thinking it was a little creepy, but it never gave me nightmares.
Like me, you once had a job handing out towels in a health club.
Confirm. You did, too?
As Lee Radziwill said, "Taste is an emotion."
That's a good one. Confirm.
Photograph Calista Flockhart at home, above, and right, with her husband, Harrison Ford. Bottom, Lee Radziwill and Truman Capote in 1966. Below left, Ms. Flockhart as Ms. Radziwill in the FX series "Feud: Capote vs. the Swans." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PFLUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MICHAEL TRAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; FX; SANTI VISALLI/GETTY IMAGES) (ST8-ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Women; Actors; Books; Alcoholism

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Flockhart, Calista; Radziwill, Lee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/26/style/calista-flockhart-ally-mcbeal-feud.html

Title: Calista Flockhart Flutters Into a Vipers' Nest:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918856550

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-flutters-into-vipers-nest/docview/2918856550/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Calista Flockhart Is Back, With a Flock of Venomous Swans

Author: Dowd, Maureen

Publication info: Dowd, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-is-back-with-flock-venomous/docview/2918806780/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SANTA MONICA, Calif. — On a chilly January weekend in Los Angeles, I turned into a truffle pig. I foraged relentlessly all over town, looking for truffle fries.
By Monday, when it was time to go to my interview, the only thing in my suitcase I could squeeze into was a Spanx dress.
“My sister gave me this for Christmas,” I explained sheepishly to the famously lissome Calista Flockhart as I slid into a booth on the terrace of the Georgian Hotel. “I guess you’ve never owned any Spanx.”
“I love Spanx!” she said. “In fact, I just ordered — no kidding — a pair of Spanx jeans. They make really cute jeans. They’re very wide.”
Seeing my skeptical look, she reminded me: “It’s not only about sucking it all in. It’s about smoothing it all the way. No panty lines.”
And then, as we sat in this romantic spot, looking out at the ocean, she said the thing that made me fall in love: “Would you like to nibble on something? How about some french fries?”
And suddenly I realized how much I had missed the woman who shot to mega-stardom in the late 1990s as Ally McBeal, the quirky Boston lawyer with miniskirts and maxi-neuroses — a role she reprised at the Emmys this month, doing a whimsical dance with her male former co-stars on a set resembling the show’s fabled unisex bathroom, with Barry White on the soundtrack.
Flockhart virtually disappeared from stage and screen at the height of her stardom, riding off into the Brentwood sunset with another star, Harrison Ford. She had dropped out to be a mom, to focus on raising Liam, the baby son she had adopted a year before meeting Ford.
Now, at 59, she’s back, playing a bouffanted Lee Radziwill in Ryan Murphy’s latest nest of vipers, “Feud: Capote vs. the Swans,” the new season of his FX anthology series. Murphy has described it as “the original ‘Real Housewives.’”
For 30 pieces of silver, and to satisfy his literary ambitions, Truman Capote turned on his beloved swans, the willowy women who reigned over New York society in the ’50s and ’60s, in a sable-lined world of Champagne, cigarette holders and Porthault sheets.
As the show makes clear, the swans feared and loathed two things: bad lighting and younger women. They relished sharing a good bottle of Pouilly-Fumé at lunch while administering “a collection of cool scalpel cuts without the benefit of anesthesia” on their friends, and then going home to sleep it off.
I asked Flockhart if she would have liked to lunch with this haut monde group.
“Maybe once,” she replied. “I felt very sorry for them. Here they are, the toast of New York — rich, jewels, apartments, houses in the country, houses in Europe. They travel all the time on private planes. They have yachts. They are dictating what is in and what is not. Underneath all that, they were very sad, very lonely and really unhappy women.”
As the Truman character tells his lover on the way to La Côte Basque for lunch with his swans: “Some swans actually drown under the beauty and weight of their fantastical, superficial plumage. They just can’t keep going.”
Wielding the excuse that writers must write, Capote betrayed the elegant Ladies Who Lunched by revealing all their seamy Upper East Side secrets — from adultery to alleged murder — in a 1975 Esquire article, “La Côte Basque, 1965.” In it, he referred to Lee Radziwill and her sister, Jackie Kennedy, as “a pair of Western geisha girls.”
The exposé was society’s version of the “Oppenheimer” explosion. Capote — perhaps afraid that his talent had gone cold after “In Cold Blood”; perhaps avenging his mother, a Southern belle who had abandoned him to try in vain to break into Manhattan society — planned it as an execution.
“There’s the handle, the trigger, the barrel and, finally, the bullet,” he told People magazine about “Answered Prayers,” the expanded book version of his piece, which was not published in his lifetime. “And when that bullet is fired from the gun, it’s going to come out with a speed and power like you’ve never seen — WHAM!”
Five decades later, Flockhart joins a flock of big-name actresses on the latest installment of Murphy’s “Feud.” Naomi Watts plays the No. 1 swan, a tortured Babe Paley, who was considered by Capote to be the most perfect woman ever made; Diane Lane is Slim Keith, who pushes to ostracize the Judas writer; Chloë Sevigny is the society doyenne C.Z. Guest; Molly Ringwald is a sweet West Coast swan, Joanne Carson, Johnny’s ex; and Demi Moore is Ann Woodward, a showgirl who shot her banking-heir husband to death but was never charged because she claimed she had mistaken him for a burglar — an excuse Capote airily dismissed.
Jessica Lange plays the ghost of Capote’s mother, an alcoholic who killed herself in 1954; the phantom savors his takedown of the breed of women who had rejected her. And in portraying the Puck of Fifth Avenue, Tom Hollander manages the impossible, holding his high-pitched own against Philip Seymour Hoffman, the star of the acclaimed 2005 film “Capote.”
Radziwill, our own Princess Margaret and an OG influencer, poured her heart out to Capote, telling him about her disintegrating marriage, about being overshadowed by Jackie, and about Jackie’s purloining her beau, Aristotle Onassis. “My God: how jealous she is of Jackie,” Capote wrote in a letter in 1962 to Cecil Beaton. “I never knew.” He tried to help her be an actress, writing the teleplay for a new version of the classic Gene Tierney movie “Laura” in 1968, but that was a fiasco.
Radziwill called Capote her “Answered Prayer” and engraved those words for him on a cigarette case lined with gold. He took her term of endearment and made it the title of his devastating book.
As the show depicts, the writer repaid all that intimacy by setting a bonfire to the swans’ vanities — the alcohol, the anorexia, the plastic surgery, the straying husbands, not to mention the streak of feral bitchiness, which matched his own. “La Côte Basque, 1965” may have finished off New York society, but it also finished off Capote, who spiraled further into alcoholism and died nine years later without having regained his seat at the table.
Murphy said that Flockhart had always been at the top of his list to play Radziwill, because he’d heard tales of her brilliant stage performances as a young woman.
“Lee Radziwill was, of all of them, the most viperous and the darkest, the most in pain,” he said. “She was the most famous — American royalty. I wasn’t sure that Calista, who had been Ally McBeal and really had a reputation of being America’s sweetheart, girl-next-door, would want to do something like that at this point in her life. But she said yes with no hesitation. She really went for it, which I admired. She was sharp and dagger-like.
“She was also so kind and prepared and helpful,” he continued. “And I took her out to see Isaac Mizrahi at a Valentine’s Day concert at Café Carlyle, and she was just a good-time girl. Hilarious and fun.”
People who have worked with Flockhart describe her as shy, dryly funny and thoughtful about sending flowers and gifts to support staff members. She is not vain and prefers not to look at herself, either on television or in the mirror.
“She has a kind of molecular pixie dust,” said her old friend, playwright, television writer and actor Jon Robin Baitz. “It sort of courses through her veins. It makes her capable of the greatest thing an actor can do, which is to surprise you.”
Baitz worked with Flockhart more than a decade ago on the ABC drama “Brothers and Sisters,” a show he created. He is also a co-writer, with Murphy, of the new “Feud,” and plays Radziwill’s third husband, director Herbert Ross, on the show. Baitz called Flockhart “the master of the panicked comic glance.”
“When someone does something weird, she will catch your eye, widen hers and exude, ‘Get me out of here!’" he said. “Then go back to an absolutely neutral expression. She has perfect comic timing.”
Greg Berlanti, a writer and executive producer of “Brothers and Sisters,” said that when the cast had its top-of-the-season meeting — in which actors typically push to shape their characters’ arcs — Flockhart had only wanted to check the calendar to make sure she could attend important school events for her son.
“She always reminds me of a Golden Age star,” he said. “She just has that Rosalind Russell, Kate Hepburn kind of feel, where she’s strong and sexy and smart and bubbly.” Like an old-school star, she is enigmatic, with flashes of screwball, but Berlanti said that she’s also “like a rock. She survived a lot of scrutiny and I think has a really well-balanced life to show for it.”
Flockhart said she loved the “Feud” costumes — “I should have lived in the ’60s, for sure” — but she does not share the swans’ dedication to the Best Dressed List.
“I’m not going to wear a purse that says Gucci all over it, because that just seems strange,” she said. “I’m also just very frugal. I have some really beautiful designer clothes, but 90% of my wardrobe is from Nordstrom. Just what’s comfortable, what works.”
She made the very un-Lee Radziwill decision to wear a 24-year-old canary yellow Ralph Lauren maxi-skirt to the premiere of “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny” in June. She had first worn it to the 1999 Emmys, when “Ally McBeal” took the award for top comedy.
She and Ford make a glamorous team on the red carpet. I asked her why she hadn’t gone to the Golden Globes with him the night before — the scene of their first meeting 22 years ago.
They had a lot of awards things coming up, she said, “so I opted to stay home, big bowl of popcorn, and we watched a lot of football. Liam was there. My dogs were there.” She flipped between the Buffalo Bills and the Globes.
Her personal style is casual. “I have a uniform,” she said. “I switch from a gray sweater to a black sweater back to the gray sweater to a black sweater.” (Her longtime stylist, Elizabeth Stewart, said Flockhart’s “main style concern is that she’s warm. I tell her I’ll get her a wetsuit to wear under her gown.”)
On this windy day, she is wearing loose-fit Levi’s, a white T-shirt, an oversize Jenni Kayne gray sweater and Adidas sneakers. She sports a large diamond engagement ring — “My husband has very good taste, I would say” — and a colorful beaded bracelet.
“I think it’s a Pride bracelet,” she said, “but it might not be.”
She looks Ally-young, more like a graduate student in English literature (her mother was an English teacher) than a woman closing in on 60. I gazed into her eyes to see if they matched Capote’s description of Lee Radziwill’s as “a glass of brandy resting on a table in front of firelight.”
“It depends on the light,” she said. “Green-brown. Hazel. Sometimes brown. Sometimes beige.”
Although Jackie Kennedy is featured in only one scene in the show, Flockhart said she had read up on Radziwill’s competitive relationship with her older sister.
“Truman Capote recognized that she was living in her sister’s shadow,” the actress said, “and he would say things: ‘You’re so much prettier. You’re so much smarter. You’re more interesting. You have better style.’ She really needed to hear that. I think it made her really love Truman. He was fun, and she confided in him, like they all did.”
Does she have a squad like the swans?
“I have four really good friends that I’ve had since my son was in kindergarten, and then I have two other ones,” she said. “All mothers. Our kids were friends. It’s been 16 years, and I feel like they’re my army. There through thick and thin.”
But she doesn’t have lunch with them because, she said, “I hate going to lunch. I love going to dinner. I’ll even do breakfast. But to spend my time in the middle of the day at lunch is not my thing.”
Murphy appreciates that Flockhart and some of the other actresses playing swans had shared the experience in the ’90s of “being a young person and wanting to be a star and famous, and then you get sucked up in that system and it’s not all it cracked up to be. It’s hard. They were both revered and punished. They got through the gauntlet of a tremendous amount of tabloid journalism.”
When I told Flockhart this, she agreed. “Yes, it seems a lifetime ago,” she said. “I have a lot of distance and perspective, and I’m still incredulous. I cannot believe that I was scrutinized and pursued like that. It was intense and it was unfair.”
David E. Kelley, the creator of “Ally McBeal,” said he had become interested in Flockhart because of her appealing turn as Gene Hackman’s daughter in Mike Nichols’ drag celebration “The Birdcage.” She was an instant success and a cultural lightning rod when “Ally McBeal” debuted in 1997. Some feminists complained that the character was too ditsy and man-crazy and that her skirts were too short.
Flockhart recalled how casually that wardrobe decision had been made: “I said to the costume designer: ‘It either has to be long or short. It can’t be in the middle, because that doesn’t make my leg look good.’ She said, ‘OK, let’s go short.’ I said, ‘Cool, let’s go short.’ And then all of a sudden there was this huge short-skirt scandal, which was really fun.”
That didn’t bother her, although she was taken aback by a 1998 Time magazine cover that showed headshots of Susan B. Anthony, Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem alongside a picture of Ally McBeal above the query “Is Feminism Dead?” Nancy Friday, the late author on female sexuality, was quoted: “Ally McBeal is a mess. She’s like a little animal. You want to put her on a leash.”
Flockhart recalled: “I don’t think I was hurt. I was surprised. I thought, this is just a character that is invented out of a man’s mind to entertain. I don’t think I saw it as such a statement. I was just trying to remember my lines.”
Kelley concurred: The character “was a cocktail of good and bad and fragile and strong emotions and attitudes. When I saw the cover of that magazine, oh, man, I just wanted to crawl into a hole, because that was never our intent to be proffering the character of Ally McBeal as a beacon of either feminism or womanhood at the time.”
He noted that, as an actor withstanding an avalanche of publicity, and as a woman, adopting a baby while she was single (as his own wife, Michelle Pfeiffer, did), Flockhart was always “a very brave person.”
Far from killing feminism, Ally inspired many young career women to stop imitating men at the office in how they acted and dressed and emoted — or didn’t. She rebutted the idea, then in fashion, that any display of “female behavior,” talk of clothes or dates or babies, was a mark against women. She was a proponent of the idea — later reinforced by “Sex and the City” — that femininity and feminism weren’t mutually exclusive.
“Now we can be who we are and still run the world,” Flockhart said.
I worried at the time that several of the actresses in Kelley’s universe — Flockhart, Lara Flynn Boyle, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Portia de Rossi — were getting too thin. Thorne-Smith and de Rossi later talked about their 300-calorie-a-day eating disorders.
Flockhart said she had been hurt by chatter about whether she had anorexia.
“I don’t think that would ever happen today,” she said. (Especially in an Ozempic-chic time, when Oprah Winfrey and a hefty slice of Hollywood are getting as skinny as Ally.) “They call it body-shaming now. I haven’t thought about it in a long time, but it’s really not OK to accuse someone of having a disease that a lot of people struggle with.
“It wasn’t the case, and there was nothing I could do to convince anybody or get out of it. If I had worn a big padded bra, they probably would never have been able to target me in that way. I look back at pictures, and I’m the same then as I am now, and nobody says a word now. I was an easy target, I guess. It was painful, it was complicated. I loved working on ‘Ally McBeal,’ and it just made it sour. I was very sleep-deprived and I was depressed about it. I did think that it was going to ruin my career. I didn’t think anybody would ever hire me again, because they would just assume I had anorexia, and that would be the end of that.”
“Clearly," she continued, “I had days where I was really hurt and embarrassed and infuriated. I was lucky that I had to work. I just put my head down. I always felt like, ‘Calista, you’re a good person, you’re not mean to anybody,’ and I’m confident in that.”
She added: “I honestly have never been in a situation where I have to watch my weight. My mom is 4-11 now, and she weighed 93 pounds when she was married. Talk about a little tiny elf. I just have small bones, and I just am lucky.”
Another stressful element was the kerfuffle around Robert Downey Jr., who joined the cast in its fourth season, as a fellow lawyer and love interest. He and Flockhart had great chemistry; the ratings spiked, and he won a Golden Globe. But he was fired the next year, after he was arrested on drug charges.
“We were such good friends, and I loved acting with him,” Flockhart said. Lately, they have been attending the same awards shows, as Downey collects laurels for his role as Lewis Strauss in “Oppenheimer.” “I am really happy for him,” she added.
Asked about the talk of an “Ally McBeal” revival, she said, “I would definitely consider it.”
On the family drama “Brothers and Sisters,” she played a pundit inspired by me, in reverse. Her character, Kitty Walker, was a conservative who tangled with her liberal siblings and her mom, played by Sally Field.
“So how was that, playing me?” I asked.
“It was amazing,” she deadpanned. “It was the best ever.”
I wondered if you could even have a show about “a tender conservative” in the era of Donald Trump.
“Now there’s a whole different polarization happening, obviously,” she said. She added that she hates the politicization of climate change and finds the conservative rollback on women’s rights “infuriating.”
I have done interviews over the years with married stars, like Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward, and the ego management seems hard. But somehow Flockhart and Ford seem to have maintained a romantic and playful relationship.
“They get a kick out of each other,” Baitz said.
They hold hands on the red carpet; they get caught on camera canoodling at the airport as they shuttle between Brentwood and their ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyoming; and they play practical jokes on each other.
“I’m called the ‘Scare Monster’ in my house because I hide behind every corner,” she said. “And so Harrison will walk in, and then I’ll go, ‘Raaah!’ And he’ll go, ‘W-uy-aah!’ And then I die laughing. I’ll put a plastic spider inside his big ice cubes in the tray, and then he’ll drink it. But then I’ll go to bed two weeks later, and he’s out of town in Jackson, and I’ll take the covers down and there’s this little rubber scorpion. It’s fun.”
She mused that one of the reasons that it has worked is because she was “really content being home” as a full-time mom. “I didn’t have the same dreams at the time, so we weren’t competing with each other.”
“We’re very independent of each other in some ways," she added, “and probably incredibly codependent on each other in others.”
Her independence startled him at first. “It scares him, I think, sometimes,” she said, laughing. “When I first met him, he said, ‘You are the most self-sufficient woman in the world, and I don’t know how I feel about that.’ I remember I said, ‘What are you talking about?’ Because I didn’t recognize I was self-sufficient.”
She added: “The other reason it works is, we’re both pretty introverted. We stay home a lot, homebodies, which is nice.”
He is known to bend the ears of dinner partners about how proud he is of her, as a mother and an actress. He told me he was “blown away” by her portrayal of the raging Martha in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” at the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles in 2022; he had never seen her onstage.
They have never worked together. “We’ve explored it a little bit, but it’s never really happened,” she said.
Flockhart, who played Helena in the 1999 film of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” has the ethereal air of a fairy queen who wandered out of the enchanted forest of Arden onto Santa Monica Boulevard. So I wasn’t surprised when she said her favorite thing to do is get up at 5:30 a.m. when the moon is up and go for a hike with her dogs.
“It’s my happy place,” she said. “I love being in nature. I used to be a city girl. You couldn’t take me out of the city. Now I just want to be quiet.” In nature, she said, “your guard goes down. You don’t have to look any way or feel any way. You just are.”
She loves to read — everything from Leo Tolstoy and Anton Chekhov to “Harry Potter.”
She just reread the wizard’s tale for the first time since Liam was little. “Harrison rolled over in bed,” she said, “and he said, ‘I have never seen you stay up until 3 o’clock in the morning to read a book.’”
Her husband’s hobbies are more physical. He started as a carpenter and has a workshop at home. I confessed to Flockhart that my girlfriends and I used to fantasize that Han Solo would come fix our kitchen cabinets. Does he fix hers?
“He built the table at the end of the bed for the TV to come up and out of,” she said. “I can boss him around pretty much about everything. I’m not guaranteed that he’ll do it. He has been exploring his carpentry roots lately, because he had more time with the strike.”
These days, she leaves him to his more adventurous pursuits.
She no longer flies with him in small planes, following his 2015 crash on a Los Angeles golf course in a vintage World War II plane that suffered a mechanical failure. She rushed to the hospital and learned he had a shattered pelvis, a broken right ankle and a broken back.
“It might, in fact, be one of the worst things I’ve ever been through in my life,” she said. “It was horrible.” A couple of years later, Ford was climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. “I won’t fly in any little plane,” she said. “I’ll only fly when he’s in a jet, with a co-pilot.”
She no longer goes motorcycle riding with him. “I went once, when I was young and stupid,” she said. “We were riding on a highway in Jackson on the way to the airport, and the wind was so strong and the helmet was so heavy that I couldn’t move my neck for three days.”
What do they like to do as a couple?
“We loved watching ‘Barry’ together,” she said. “When Liam was young, we all watched Hercule Poirot obsessively. We started doing some jigsaw puzzles during COVID.”
She got certified in scuba diving for trips with Ford and Liam to Bonaire in the Caribbean and Raja Ampat in Indonesia; she loves it because it’s “so peaceful under the water.”
Her favorite thing about her husband? “I love his sense of humor and I love it when he’s tender with the dogs,” she said. She has three: a 19-year-old Chihuahua, Muggs, and two terrier mixes, January and Juno.
I confessed that I had tried the trick she used to meet Ford — spilling a drink on someone — but just ended up with irritated guys. That meet-cute story is not quite accurate, as it turns out.
Flockhart told me her version of the night that is now part of Hollywood lore, and later, in a separate interview, Ford told me his.
They met at the 2002 Golden Globes. She was nominated for her role in “Ally McBeal,” and he received the Cecil B. DeMille lifetime achievement award. She looked fetching in a strapless dress, designed for her by Oscar de la Renta, in shirred pink lace over a nude base, with ruffles cascading at the bottom.
Harrison: “I saw this lady. I asked my agent: ‘Wow! Who’s that girl?’ He said, ‘That’s Calista Flockhart.’ I said, ‘Oh, what does she do?’ He says, ‘She’s Ally McBeal.’ I hadn’t really seen it. I said, ‘Well, could you introduce us?’ He said, ‘Yes.’”
Calista: “Harrison came over to say hi. When he left, I said: ‘Ugh, what a lascivious old man. What is he doing?’ After the show, we started talking. Then I was really charmed by him.”
Harrison: “I had this thing, the award, in my hand, and it was easier to hold upside down.”
Calista: “I joked: ‘Oh, what’s that? A place for me to put my red wine?’ Then, of course, because he’s who he is and he can’t hold still, he went, ‘Ugh,’ and then the red wine went everywhere. It didn’t land on me. I was safe. It was all over him, maybe. Maybe on the floor, mostly.”
Harrison: “She spilled wine on me, or I spilled wine on her or something, and that sort of sealed the deal. I said, ‘Where do you live?’ She said, ‘I live in Brentwood.’ I said: ‘So do I. Would you want to have a drink?’ She said, ‘Well, maybe, but I have to bring my agent.’ I said, ‘OK, I’ll bring my agent, too.’ We went to the old Brentwood Bar and Grill and had a drink. I lured her up to my house and we danced, and then I took her home. Make sure you put that in the story. And we’ve sort of been together ever since.”
Ford was not daunted by the idea of dating a new mother. “Didn’t scare me off,” he said. “When I met Liam, he was just beginning to walk, and it just didn’t matter to me. I had four children already, and I can’t count that well, so it didn’t make that much difference.”
And Flockhart was not daunted by the 22-year age gap. She said she often feels like the older one, adding drolly, “because he’s so immature.”
Ford has talked about how his career made him a worse parent, because he was traveling so much for work. How was he with Liam, I wondered.
“I think he was a really good father in a lot of ways, and maybe because he was on Round 2 or Round 3, so he had matured and grown up and, I think, evolved into being a good father,” she said. “He’s such a good father to his kids now. I love his kids, my stepkids.”
Liam graduated from Amherst last year. “He’s an academic, I think,” said Flockhart, a Rutgers grad.
I ask if she knows the true story of how Ford got the scar on his chin (which made for a funny scene in Mike Nichols’ “Working Girl.”)
“I don’t know if I can divulge it,” she said. “Should I call and ask him?”
She phoned her husband. “Hi,” she said. “Is it a secret how you got your scar on your chin? OK. Yes. Yes. Bye. Bye.”
She turned to me: “It was a car crash on the way to work at Bullock’s department store. He says he’s lied about it many times.” (In his 20s, Ford was an assistant buyer in the knickknacks and oil painting section of the Los Angeles store.)
As the sun began to set and the wind whipped up, we ordered camomile tea to get warm.
“We’ve had to work,” she said about her marriage. “We’ve had our ups, we’ve had downs like everybody else — mostly ups, which is good — and we just stay together. He’s the person that I want to call when something happens. That knee-jerk thing where I have to call Harrison.”
—
CONFIRM OR DENY
Maureen Dowd: You and Harrison get into cosplay with your iconic characters, Indiana Jones and Ally McBeal.
Calista Flockhart: Deny!
Dowd: The “Indiana Jones” bullwhip is in the bedroom drawer.
Flockhart: No. That’s hilarious.
Dowd: You use the bullwhip —
Flockhart: Deny. Deny. Deny. One hundred percent deny.
Dowd: You made Harrison get rid of his earring.
Flockhart: Deny. It’s long gone. That was a passing fad.
Dowd: Every time Harrison drops an F-bomb, you make him put a dollar in the swear jar.
Flockhart: Not a bad idea, but deny. I always say, “Seriously?” But then, I can drop the F-bomb like nobody’s business, too.
Dowd: The dancing baby on “Ally McBeal” still gives you nightmares.
Flockhart: Deny. I always remember thinking it was a little creepy, but it never gave me nightmares.
Dowd: Like me, you once had a job handing out towels in a health club.
Flockhart: Confirm. You did, too?
Dowd: As Lee Radziwill said, “Taste is an emotion.”
Flockhart: That’s a good one. Confirm.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Women; Actors; Books; Alcoholism

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Flockhart, Calista; Radziwill, Lee

Identifier / keyword: People (Magazine); Downey, Robert Jr; Dowd, Maureen; Murphy, Ryan; Wyoming; Geffen Playhouse; Porthault; Animal Behavior; Movies; Baitz, Jon Robin; Restaurants; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Celebrities; Mental Health And Disorders; Women's Rights; Parties (Social); Domestic Violence; Amherst College; Capote, Truman; Oscar De La Renta Llc; Radziwill, Lee; Pigs; Parenting; Conservatism (Us Politics); Careers And Professions; Abc Inc; Shyness; Diving And Divers; Jackson Hole (Wyo); Golden Globes (Awards); Field, Sally; Ringwald, Molly; Academy Awards (Oscars); Flockhart, Calista; California; Moore, Demi; Adoptions; Eating Disorders; Automobiles; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Pfeiffer, Michelle; Kelley, David E; Dresses; Dancing; Moon; Friedan, Betty; Tierney, Gene; Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Avalanches; Onassis, Aristotle; Adultery; Europe; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Amherst (Mass); Anthony, Susan B; Gold; Love (Emotion); Santa Monica (Calif); Steinem, Gloria; Caribbean Area; Weddings And Engagements; Indonesia; Jewels And Jewelry; Woolf, Virginia; Fx (Tv Network); Nordstrom Inc; Raja Ampat Islands (Indonesia); Global Warming; Boyle, Lara Flynn; Women And Girls; Taste; Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Mizrahi, Isaac; Hoffman, Philip Seymour; Dogs; Paley, Barbara Cushing; Los Angeles (Calif); Weight; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Anorexia Nervosa; Ross, Herbert; Hackman, Gene; Alcoholic Beverages; Writing And Writers; Demille, Cecil B; Buffalo Bills; Workplace Environment; Theater; Puzzles; Deaths (Fatalities); Newman, Paul; Truffles; Chekhov, Anton; Beauty (Concept); Marriages; Education (K 12); Lifestyle; Dating And Relationships; Thorne Smith, Courtney; Woodward, Joanne; Gucci; Beaton, Cecil; Labor And Jobs; Robberies And Thefts; Upper East Side (Manhattan, Ny); Bonaire; Basques; Nichols, Mike; Magazines; Television; Virginia; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Russell, Rosalind; Woodward, Ann; Aviation Accidents, Safety And Disasters; Esquire (Magazine); De Rossi, Portia; Ford, Harrison; Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Manhattan (Nyc); Berlanti, Greg; Winfrey, Oprah; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Wines; Kayne, Jenni; Insects; Mount Kilimanjaro (Tanzania); Adidas Ag; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Lange, Jessica; Lane, Diane; Memory; Rutgers, The State University Of New Jersey; Hollander, Tom; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological; Comedy And Humor

Title: Calista Flockhart Is Back, With a Flock of Venomous Swans

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 27, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-27T16:50:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918806780

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-is-back-with-flock-venomous/docview/2918806780/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Happily Ever After Isn't the Goal: [Style Desk]

Author: Safronova, Valeriya

Publication info: Safronova, Valeriya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/happily-ever-after-isnt-goal/docview/2916782992/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Nadya Tolokonnikova, a founding member of Pussy Riot, and John Caldwell have always prioritized being "helpful," he said, over being happy.
When Nadya Tolokonnikova, one of the founding members of the anti-establishment punk collective Pussy Riot, reached out to John Caldwell on Discord, an encrypted messaging app, he asked if she was a bot.
"She just said 'haha,"' said Mr. Caldwell, who was already familiar with her work. "I was very suspicious."
Ms. Tolokonnikova had developed an interest in cryptocurrency and blockchain and had heard about Mr. Caldwell, a partner at a financial services company who specialized in crypto, from a friend. "I was jumping on Zooms with random people with no romantic intentions, just learning about crypto," she said.
They met for dinner a few days later, in mid-September 2021. "It ended horribly," Mr. Caldwell said. "She faked a call to Europe and left."
Ms. Tolokonnikova, an activist, musician and artist, described herself as a "super introverted person," and said she normally spaces out meetings with new people. But at the time, she was in the process of crash educating herself on a new topic, and had therefore scheduled several meetings in one day, and the dinner with Mr. Caldwell was last.
"I was overwhelmed," she said. So she left abruptly. But, she said, "it was not a reflection on John at all." In fact, she had been intrigued by their conversation about reproductive rights and religion, and by Mr. Caldwell's suggestion that she tap into the deep pockets of the crypto world to raise funds for causes she was interested in.
Despite Mr. Caldwell's sense that the meeting had been a disaster, Ms. Tolokonnikova reached out again, and the two decided to work together on a new venture: UnicornDAO, a fund-raising and investment vehicle focused on female, nonbinary and L.G.B.T.Q. artists and creators.
Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 34, was born in Norilsk, Russia, and studied philosophy at Moscow State University. At 22, before she could complete her degree, she was imprisoned for nearly two years for her role in "Punk Prayer," a public performance piece that protested the Russian government's close relationship with the Russian Orthodox Church (the protest was also the subject of an HBO documentary in 2013). In 2014, she and another Pussy Riot member, Maria Alyokhina, founded an independent news outlet in Russia called Mediazona. Ms. Tolokonnikova was married previously to Pyotr Verzilov. They split up in 2016.
Ms. Tolokonnikova's continued outspokenness against President Vladimir V. Putin and his government landed her on Russia's list of "foreign agents," a label the authorities use to suppress opposition figures. Because of concerns for her safety, she does not disclose where she lives. In 2019, she received an honorary doctorate from the Rhode Island School of Design, fulfilling a personal dream. She is currently working on a memoir.
John Ferguson Caldwell, 40, was born in Providence, R.I., but grew up in the Pacific Palisades neighborhood of Los Angeles. Mr. Caldwell graduated from Pepperdine University in 2006 with a bachelor's degree in art. He worked in surfing tourism in the Marshall Islands, managing a private island and organizing luxury yacht charters, until the pandemic began. After returning to the United States in March 2020, his interest in cryptocurrency and blockchain led him to join Wave, a financial services company. He is a founder of RFLXT, a company that is building a platform of artificial intelligence and crypto tools for creators.
After Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, Mr. Caldwell and Ms. Tolokonnikova led an effort to raise $ 7.1 million in cryptocurrency for Ukraine. The crypto wallet they used for the fund-raiser publicly listed Mr. Caldwell's name. "All my friends were like, 'The Russian government will put you on a list,"' Mr. Caldwell said. "I don't think it's a coincidence that was the moment Nadya got little hearts in her eyes."
"That was a very clear moment for me," Ms. Tolokonnikova said. "I really cherish kindness and bravery and consistency and high moral values in people."
Mr. Caldwell, too, was full of admiration for Ms. Tolokonnikova. After she messaged him on Discord, he decided to learn more about her and watched the speech she gave at her trial in Russia in 2012, in which Ms. Tolokonnikova described herself and her fellow Pussy Riot activists as "freer than the people sitting opposite us and representing the prosecution because we can say everything we like, and we do."
"It's one of the most inspiring moments in humanity's recent history," Mr. Caldwell said. "And that's just in the background. She's funny and beautiful and smart and goth -- and now vegan." Mr. Caldwell has been vegan for more than two decades and succeeded in converting Ms. Tolokonnikova to the diet in the fall of 2022.
Now they enjoy eating at new vegan restaurants together. "John knows every single place for vegan food on planet earth, and it's always the best," Ms. Tolokonnikova said.
They also like to stage political actions together; in November, for example, they protested against restrictions on abortion rights in front of Indiana's Supreme Court building. "We brought a giant inflatable vagina, and I came up with the contraption to inflate it, so I was holding it," Mr. Caldwell said.
"His friends called him the Man Behind the Pussy," Ms. Tolokonnikova said.
Both struggle with depression and other mental health issues and find comfort in helping others. "Most people, if one of the members of their partnership was put on a criminal wanted list in their country and exiled and couldn't visit their home and their family and everything they knew, they would consider it a challenge," Mr. Caldwell said. "But it's just our reality. We're not sitting around feeling sorry for ourselves. We just want to be helpful."
He added that he does not prioritize happiness. Instead, he said, "I prioritize ideals and being useful and creative and being supportive of people around me."
Ms. Tolokonnikova said she found Mr. Caldwell's approach comforting. "I don't even necessarily know what happiness is," she said. "I spend most of my time on my art or my activism. I don't spend much of my time on human activities, like going to a bar or just having fun."
And so, fun was the top priority for Mr. Caldwell's proposal. "Nadya has been through a lot," he said. "I wanted to give her something cute and nice and kind of traditional."
A few days before a trip to London, Mr. Caldwell commissioned Alligator Jesus, a jewelry designer and friend, to create an engagement ring for Ms. Tolokonnikova. Within 24 hours, Alligator Jesus delivered a black gold ring with diamonds and a pink sapphire. Mr. Caldwell also asked Gera Riot, Ms. Tolokonnikova's 15-year-old daughter, for permission to propose, which she granted.
On Nov. 11, Mr. Caldwell and Ms. Tolokonnikova were joined by Marina Abramovic, a close friend who, Ms. Tolokonnikova said, "spiritually adopted" the couple, in central London. They were there to see a short art film, "Nadya Means Hope," in which Ms. Tolokonnikova burns a candle in the shape of an eggplant emoji, play on an enormous screen in Piccadilly Circus. At the end of the video, a poem written by Mr. Caldwell appeared on the screen, followed by the words "Will You Marry Me?" in Russian and English. Mr. Caldwell got on his knee and took out the ring.
"I fell on the ground because I was so surprised," Ms. Tolokonnikova said. Literally. And then she said, "Da!"
They were legally married on Jan. 12 at a courthouse in Los Angeles. Afterward, Nathan Monk, a priest who left the Russian Orthodox Church because he did not support its stance on gay marriage, led a short ceremony in their friend's yard in front of about 200 guests.
"He spoke about Ukraine, about the fact that this love was brought together by challenges of the modern world, but also our common wish to make the world a little bit better, more just," Ms. Tolokonnikova said.
Ms. Tolokonnikova's daughter made the party's playlist, which featured Soviet pop and contemporary Russian trap. For food, Ms. Tolokonnikova suggested serving pickles and vodka, but Mr. Caldwell insisted on something more robust.
He asked Wendell Hooper, a friend who is a chef, to cater. "He answered my call a week before," Mr. Caldwell said. "He said, 'This is normally planned six months in advance,' and I said, 'Welcome to Pussy Riot."'
They served vegan meatballs, vegan charcuterie, vegan shrimp and eggplant caviar. Ms. Tolokonnikova baked a large vegan Napoleon cake, dyed it black and assembled it in the shape of a cross, a symbol she uses often in her artwork.
The dress code was "gopnik," a word that encapsulates a style of dress, music and art reflecting the working class in the former Soviet states in the 1980s and 1990s. Mr. Caldwell asked Mark Hunter, a.k.a. the Cobrasnake, to serve as wedding photographer. "I like his pop-event club style."
Guests showed up in tracksuits, house slippers, Adidas slides and newsboy caps, and one brought an accordion. Ms. Tolokonnikova wore a corset top from Adidas, a skirt from Depop with a petticoat over it, a faux leather jacket and velvet, high-platform Doc Martens.
She sewed three stripes -- the Adidas trademark -- along the arms of a suit jacket for Mr. Caldwell, using a skill she picked up in prison. "I thought I would never sew again," she said. But for this occasion, she was happy to.
"Everybody was saying it was the most comfortable party they've been to," Ms. Tolokonnikova said. "It was absurd and goofy at times, and the overall vibe was very cozy."
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
On This Day
When Jan. 12, 2024
Where Los Angeles
Breaking Bread A friend gave Ms. Tolokonnikova and Mr. Caldwell a loaf of dense rye bread, which they pulled from opposite sides until it broke. Per Russian tradition, whoever ends up with a bigger chunk will be in charge. "We did it exactly equal," Ms. Tolokonnikova said. "Well, maybe mine was a little bit bigger."
Bitter Cries At Russian weddings, when guests shout the word "gorko," or "bitter," the newly married couple should immediately kiss. But not all the guests at Ms. Tolokonnikova and Mr. Caldwell's international wedding understood what the word meant. "They would scream at me and he'd be at the opposite side of the house," Ms. Tolokonnikova said.
Master of Ceremonies A friend of the couple's who is a translator and speaks Russian and English, Max Lawton, acted as the "tamada," or toastmaster, in the Georgian tradition. Besides organizing the toasts, Mr. Lawton led the guests in playing games, like one in which people hold a balloon in their lap and others try to sit on it until it pops.
Photograph The newlyweds Nadya Tolokonnikova and John Caldwell aim to help others. (ST1); Above, Nadya Tolokonnikova and John Caldwell, who were married this month, at a ceremony with Nathan Monk, a priest who left the Russian Orthodox Church. Second row from left: the musician Masha Mitkov playing a Balkan Roma wedding song for the couple; and Nastya Kreslina, holding the microphone, and Nick Kostylev, wearing a hood, of IC3PEAK performing at the ceremony. Third row from left: the couple's friends Riley Reid, left, and Alligator Jesus, who designed Ms. Tolokonnikova's engagement ring; and the visual artist Yulia Shur carrying a wedding gift. Above right, Ms. Tolokonnikova and Mr. Caldwell with a portrait by the artist Anna Leo Valerie. At left from top: the wedding cake; and the tearing of bread, a Russian tradition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HUNTER/THE COBRASNAKE) (ST4) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST4.

Subject: Digital currencies; Blockchain; Veganism; Financial services

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Blockchain Financial services

Location: Russia; Los Angeles California; United States--US; Ukraine

People: Tolokonnikova, Nadezhda

Company / organization: Name: Russian Orthodox Church; NAICS: 813110; Name: Pussy Riot; NAICS: 711130, 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/17/style/nadya-tolokonnikova-john-caldwell-pussy-riot-wedding.html

Title: Happily Ever After Isn't the Goal:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 21, 2024

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916782992

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/happily-ever-after-isnt-goal/docview/2916782992/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Franz Beckenbauer, 'Der Kaiser' Steeped in Soccer Glory, Dies at 78: [Biography]

Author: Smith, Rory; Das, Andrew

Publication info: Smith, Rory; Das, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/franz-beckenbauer-der-kaiser-steeped-soccer-glory/docview/2912167741/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In West Germany, he revolutionized his central defense position and was one of only three people to win the World Cup as a player and a coach.
Franz Beckenbauer, a World Cup winner as a player and a coach who became the defining figure in German soccer for more than half a century, died on Sunday. He was 78.
He died at his home, his family confirmed in a statement. The statement did not specify where he lived or state the cause of death. His relatives had previously suggested to German media outlets that he was in failing health.
Known throughout an illustrious, trophy-laden career as "Der Kaiser," Beckenbauer had retreated from public view in recent years, buffeted by the death of one of his five children, Stephan, from a brain tumor in 2015, and by a heart bypass operation the next year.
Before then he had been a totemic, magnetic presence in both German soccer and German public life. He was a player, a defender of unusual poise and elegance. He was a coach, exhibiting a deft touch and an easy manner with his players. And he was an executive, showing himself to be a skilled diplomat and consummate networker.
Most of all, though, Beckenbauer was a winner. He won relentlessly at Bayern Munich, the club he joined as a teenager and with which he became so intertwined that Uli Hoeness, its longtime president, called him the "greatest personality" in its history.
Over 14 years with the club, Beckenbauer lifted four German championships, four German cups, three European cups and an Intercontinental Cup, the forerunner of the Club World Cup. He was twice elected Ballon d'Or, the prestigious award given by the magazine France Football to the European Player of the Year, the only defender ever to win it more than once. He went on to pick up three more titles during a spell, in the autumn of his career, with the New York Cosmos.
More notable still, he won with his national team, too. Beckenbauer helped guide West Germany to the final of the 1966 World Cup, losing in extra time to the host, England, in a game that he felt he was "too young" to influence, as he put it. Four years later, he was part of the West German side that lost to Italy in a thrilling semifinal labeled the "Game of the Century."
In 1974 -- two years after winning the European Championship -- he finally conquered the game's global summit, guiding West Germany to a 2-1 victory against the Netherlands on home soil, in Munich. As captain, Beckenbauer became the first player to raise the current incarnation of the World Cup trophy.
He would encounter it again 16 years later. Beckenbauer had, a little reluctantly, agreed to coach the West German national team in 1984, agreeing to take the job only because he felt what he later described as a "moral obligation."
He reached the World Cup final two years later -- losing 3-2 to Diego Maradona and Argentina -- and then exacted his revenge in 1990, beating the same opponent by a single goal in Rome in the final. In doing so, Beckenbauer ensured his place in an exclusive group of only three men, joining Mário Zagallo of Brazil (who died last week) and preceding Didier Deschamps of France, who have won the World Cup as both player and coach.
Even after his direct involvement with soccer, on the field, had come to an end, he continued to win. Beckenbauer was at the forefront of a reunified Germany's attempt to host the 2006 World Cup; the success of the bid, as well as the eventual success of the tournament, led him to nominate that World Cup as the one that meant the most to him personally.
It also came to stain his legacy. Throughout his career his private life and his conduct as an executive led to reputational damage and more than one brush with the law: Both his tax affairs and his romantic life attracted scrutiny and, in the case of the former, seven-figure fines.
"He did everything that a German is not supposed to do," his former teammate Paul Breitner once said. "He got divorced, he left his children, took off with his girlfriend, got into trouble with tax collectors, left his girlfriend again. But he is forgiven for everything because he's got a good heart, he's a positive person, and he's always ready to help. He doesn't conceal his weaknesses, doesn't sweep his mistakes under the carpet."
The allegations of corruption over the bidding process for the 2006 World Cup, though, were not so easily forgiven. A decade on from his role as the figurehead for that tournament, Beckenbauer evaded criminal conviction in Switzerland, home of soccer's governing body FIFA, only when a trial was abandoned just before the verdict was due because of a Swiss rule related to the amount of time that had elapsed since the crimes were alleged to have been committed.
He always denied the accusations. "We did not want to bribe anyone, and we did not bribe anyone," he wrote in a column for the German newspaper Bild in 2016.
That trial came a few years after Beckenbauer participated in the tainted FIFA vote that led to the 2018 and 2022 tournaments being awarded to Russia and Qatar. Beckenbauer was among the officials accused of wrongdoing.
Franz Anton Beckenbauer was born in September 1945 to Franz and Antonie Beckenbauer in Giesing, a working-class suburb of Munich, close to what would become the site of the city's Olympic Stadium. His father was a postal worker. Franz was identified as a player of rare talent as a child by both of the city's professional teams, 1860 Munich and Bayern Munich.
His decision to play for Bayern became the moment the team's destiny was set. Without Beckenbauer, Bayern "would never have become the club it is today," as a statement from that perennial German champion put it.
Originally a midfielder, Beckenbauer spent the majority of his career as a "libero," effectively a deep-lying sweeper given license to roam forward and start attacks whenever the opportunity arose.
"For me, he was the best player in German history," the country's current national team coach, Julian Nagelsmann, said. "His interpretation of the role of the libero changed the game. This role and his friendship with the ball made him a free man. Franz Beckenbauer was able to float on the lawn. As a footballer, and later also as a coach, he was sublime. He stood above things."
Beckenbauer made more than 500 appearances for Bayern -- and a further 103 for West Germany -- before announcing his decision to leave the country and join the Cosmos in 1977. It was a decision that cost him his place at the 1978 World Cup, when the German soccer federation decreed it would not select players working outside Europe.
He did not regret it. He would later describe his years with the Cosmos -- where he counted Pelé among his teammates -- as the best of his life.
In Munich, he said, he could not go for a meal without "the newspapers reporting on my main course." The cosmopolitanism of New York, by contrast, offered a degree of freedom. "At Munich, we were all German players," he said. "At the Cosmos, it was 14 nationalities, and Pelé."
The anonymity was only relative, though. One night, Beckenbauer was dining with Ahmet Ertegun, the founder of Atlantic Records and the driving force behind the Cosmos, on Second Avenue. Beckenbauer spotted Woody Allen and asked Mr. Ertegun, impeccably connected, to introduce him.
As detailed by Gavin Newsham in his 2006 book "Once In A Lifetime," his history of the Cosmos, the impresario duly obliged, heading across the restaurant with Beckenbauer following, uncharacteristically shy. As they reached the director's table, though, before Mr. Ertegun could speak, Mr. Allen quickly stood up, a look of incredulity on his face. "My God, Franz Beckenbauer," he said.
Beckenbauer is survived by his wife, Heidrun, known as Heidi, and their two children, Joel and Francesca, as well as two children from his previous marriages, Thomas and Michael.
Melissa Eddy and Tariq Panja contributed reporting.
Melissa Eddy and Tariq Panja contributed reporting.
Photograph Franz Beckenbauer, second from right, led West Germany to the 1974 World Cup title. He also triumphed often with Bayern Munich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS); Beckenbauer, one of only three men to have won the World Cup as both a player and a coach, did it from the sideline in 1990. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BONGARTS, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Beckenbauer, left, with Herbert Hainer, the chief executive of Adidas, in 2006 as Germany prepared to host the World Cup. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MacDOUGALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B10.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Careers; Soccer; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: West Germany; New York; United States--US; France; Germany

People: Beckenbauer, Franz

Company / organization: Name: Federation Internationale de Football Association--FIFA; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/08/world/europe/franz-beckenbauer-dead.html

Title: Franz Beckenbauer, 'Der Kaiser' Steeped in Soccer Glory, Dies at 78:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 10, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2912167741

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/franz-beckenbauer-der-kaiser-steeped-soccer-glory/docview/2912167741/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2911063649/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When is it appropriate to wear a fully matching sweatsuit, top and bottom? When I see people wearing a paired sweatshirt and sweatpants, I sometimes think "cringe." And sometimes I can't help but want to wear it. Which side of me is right?
Pepper, New York Karl Lagerfeld, the Chanel designer whose talent for dramatic pronouncements was equaled only by his talent for dreaming up extraordinary clothes, once declared sweatpants "a sign of defeat."
That pronouncement would suggest that the full sweatpants-and-sweatshirt look, otherwise known as the sweatsuit, a shapeless pairing once synonymous with gym teachers and Rocky Balboa, is ... well, what? A sign of surrender?
Perhaps. Or perhaps, given that this is fashion and in fashion nothing is more certain than that which was out will be in again, it is the embodiment of an ironically triumphant return.
In truth, the sweatsuit has been making a comeback since the coronavirus pandemic. That period, when we prized comfort dressing over just about everything else, converged with Gen Alpha's celebration of all things Y2K, including that era-defining item, the Juicy Couture velour sweatsuit. That discovery was exacerbated by the Miu Miu-driven resurgence of the "set," be it Miuccia Prada's matching crop top and tiny skirt, Versace's shortie pajamas or, yes, the matching sweatsuit of yore.
Demna, the designer of Balenciaga known for reframing the totems of streetwear as luxury, picked up on this idea, embracing not just a signature oversize hoodie but the tracksuit, via his Balenciaga collaboration with Adidas in 2022. It was a slicker, more globalized version of the sweatsuit, and one with its own cultural semiology thanks to hip-hop. Last month, he went a step further and paid homage to the Juicy sweatsuit in his fall 2024 show.
TikTok embraced the trend, with influencers of all sorts discovering the joy of sweats -- they don't call them that exactly; more on that in a moment -- especially as a solution to all things airport.
"Suits" have gotten a bad rap, but the notion of pairing your top and your bottom to create an unbroken line and to suggest coordination aforethought remains an effective approach to dress. The sweatsuit has evolved beyond the usual fleece and baggy proportions and is now available in materials like cashmere and wool, often with smaller tops paired with looser bottoms. I wouldn't use them for jogging, but they are good for swanning around.
The details matter. Wear a sweatsuit with a sweatband and sneakers and you look like a victim of the endless cycle of New Year's workout resolutions. Wear it with a nice handbag and a trench coat and you look like a modern Jean Harlow out to take the air.
It's really a question of framing. Yes, the sweatsuit as we once knew it may be dead, but long live the lounge suit. Or, as influencers like to call it, the "matching sweatsuit set." It's kind of like the reinvention of Target as Tar-gét. Same word, whole new implication.
Every week in the Open Thread newsletter, The Times's chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, answers a reader's fashion-related question. Sign up at nytimes.com/newsletters.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

Company / organization: Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/05/pageoneplus/08a3_openthread.html

Title: Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 8, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2911063649

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2911063649/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kanye West Issues Apology For Antisemitic Comments: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Kuo, Christopher

Publication info: Kuo, Christopher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-west-issues-apology-antisemitic-comments/docview/2906079637/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "I deeply regret any pain I may have caused," wrote the rapper formerly known as Kanye West, who is releasing an album next month.
Ye, the rapper and producer formerly known as Kanye West, apologized to the Jewish community on Tuesday for a series of antisemitic comments he made last year.
"It was not my intention to offend or demean, and I deeply regret any pain I may have caused," Ye said in an Instagram post that was written in Hebrew. "I am committed to starting with myself and learning from this experience to ensure greater sensitivity and understanding in the future. Your forgiveness is important to me, and I am committed to making amends and promoting unity."
Ye became embroiled in controversy in October 2022 after wearing a shirt at Paris Fashion Week that said "White Lives Matter" and posting an antisemitic tweet in which he threatened to go "death con 3 On JEWISH PEOPLE." In an Instagram post, he shared a screenshot of a text exchange with the producer and music mogul Sean Combs in which he suggested that Combs was controlled by Jewish people.
Many organizations, including Adidas and Creative Artists Agency, eventually cut ties with the rapper.
The Anti-Defamation League said on Tuesday that Ye's apology was welcome, while noting that actions speak louder than words.
"After causing untold damage by using his vast influence and platform to poison countless minds with vicious antisemitism and hate, an apology in Hebrew may be the first step on a long journey toward making amends to the Jewish community and all those who he has hurt," a spokesman said in an email.
Ye had previously apologized for the tweet but has continued to make antisemitic comments. In one interview with the right-wing commentator Alex Jones, he said, "I love Jewish people, but I also love Nazis" and "I do love Hitler."
The rapper's next album, "Vultures," is set to be released on Jan. 12 after a delay. On its title track, Ye raps that he cannot be antisemitic because he had sex with a Jewish woman.
Photograph Adidas cut ties with Kanye West in 2022. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEGA/GC IMAGES, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page C4.

Subject: Antisemitism; Jewish people; Rap music; Jewish life & ethics; Apologies

People: West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/26/arts/music/kanye-west-apology-antisemitism.html

Title: Kanye West Issues Apology For Antisemitic Comments:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 27, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2906079637

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-west-issues-apology-antisemitic-comments/docview/2906079637/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kanye West, as Ye, Previews New Music With Ty Dolla Sign: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Coscarelli, Joe

Publication info: Coscarelli, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-west-as-ye-previews-new-music-with-ty-dolla/docview/2901363511/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For months, the rapper has teased "Vultures," his first album since he made a string of antisemitic comments last year. He said the LP will be released Friday.
Kanye West, the contentious artist and provocateur now known as Ye, appeared onstage in Miami after midnight on Tuesday wearing a pointed black hood that resembled a Ku Klux Klan robe -- and the 10-year-old artwork for his song "Black Skinhead" -- as the musician previewed his first new album since a string of incendiary and antisemitic comments threatened to tank his career in music and fashion last year.
The listening event, which was dubbed a "rave" and streamed online amid technical difficulties, teased "Vultures," an album that Ye has been plugging intermittently for months alongside the R&B singer Ty Dolla Sign, a frequent collaborator.
In various appearances around the Miami area in the last week, Ye has played songs from the album and said that it would be released on Friday, Dec. 15, although false starts, delays and missed deadlines have long been a feature of Ye's process and marketing prowess. Billboard reported in October that Ye and Ty Dolla Sign were considering label distribution partners for the release, since Ye's longtime record company, Def Jam, distanced itself from him amid the controversies last fall.
The two musicians had previously attempted to stage a concert or listening event at an arena in Italy for up to 100,000 people, then pivoted to teasing a "multi stadium listening event" last month, similar to the events Ye used to promote his album "Donda" in 2021. Both plans fizzled.
The version of "Vultures" that was played in Miami early Tuesday included appearances by Charlie Wilson, Lil Baby, Freddie Gibbs, Chris Brown, Young Thug (who is currently incarcerated and on trial) and Ye's oldest daughter, North West, who rapped on one track, "It's your bestie/Miss, Miss Westie."
The album began with a track titled "Everybody" that referenced the 26-year-old Backstreet Boys hit of the same name ("Yeezy's back/all right!"). On the song, Ye seemed to allude to his potential status as an entertainment industry pariah, rapping, "Come sue me/MeToo me/surviving Ye/come shoot me." Later, he adds, "Everybody waiting for me to say the wrong thing."
Having long toed the line of accepted celebrity rabble-rousing, Ye lost lucrative professional associations with the Creative Artists Agency and Adidas, where his Yeezy brand sneaker was a best seller, late last year following his wearing of a shirt that read "White Lives Matter" and an online post in which he threatened to go "death con 3 On JEWISH PEOPLE."
Following pushback and amid subsequent reporting about his longtime fascination with Nazism, Ye doubled down in a series of bizarre interviews with right-wing firebrands including Tucker Carlson and Alex Jones, telling Jones, "I love Jewish people, but I also love Nazis," and "I do love Hitler."
While Ye has remained largely quiet in public in the year since, performing in concert just once with Travis Scott, he has continued to push buttons while alluding to the controversy, rapping on the song "Vultures," in crude terms, that he could not be antisemitic because he had sex with a Jewish woman. He has also worn logos that resemble a German coat of arms, including a double-headed eagle paired with the word vultures.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C4.

Subject: Antisemitism; Jewish people; Nazi groups; Listening; Musical performances

People: West, Kanye

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/12/arts/music/ye-kanye-west-vultures-ty-dolla-sign.html

Title: Kanye West, as Ye, Previews New Music With Ty Dolla Sign:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 14, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2901363511

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-west-as-ye-previews-new-music-with-ty-dolla/docview/2901363511/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dressing for the Show. Real Estate Is the Side Gig.: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kodé, Anna; Krystie Lee Yandoli

Publication info: Kodé, Anna; Krystie Lee Yandoli. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressing-show-real-estate-is-side-gig/docview/2891380482/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The reality show is supposed to be about real estate. But many viewers are coming just for the fashion, and the cast knows it. "Selling Sunset" is anything but subtle.
The Netflix reality show follows a cast of real estate professionals at the Oppenheim Group, a Los Angeles-based luxury brokerage. It features multimillion dollar listings and brief celebrity name-drops and appearances. Side eyes are even more abundant.
But as viewers continue to binge the show season after season, chatter has focused not on what the agents and associates are selling, but what they are wearing. That, too, is anything but subtle. Each episode, the Oppenheim Group's office turns into a catwalk.
Though high-production scripted shows like "Succession" and "White Lotus" sparked lengthy over-analysis surrounding "stealth wealth" or "quiet luxury," the wardrobe on "Selling Sunset" is flashier -- there are more sequins than pinstripes.
Some viewers have criticized the agents' sartorial choices for being garish or unrealistic, but the apparel -- which has become progressively louder with each season -- is working. The show's sixth season, which premiered in May, was in Netflix's Top 10 most-watched shows in nearly 60 countries, and there's more to come -- Season 7 premieres on Friday.
Cast members on "Selling Sunset" don't have designated costume designers or stylists provided by production; they're responsible for funding and choosing their own clothing. In interviews, several of the agents said that they dress for the show, not the showings -- often amping up their style just for when they're filming. If they didn't, would we still be watching? Here's a look back at some of last season's most memorable style moments.
Revenge Dressing
Chrishell Stause, Season 1's Oppenheim Group newbie, said she was at first intimidated at the thought of dressing for her glitzy job. Fast forward to Season 6, Ms. Stause authoritatively stated that the cast's fashion, including her own, was "camp."
"It's so over the top, and I think sometimes we just lean into it," said Ms. Stause, 42. "We're making a show at the end of the day. We want to give people something fun to look at."
While filming, Ms. Stause keeps a garment rack of outfits at the ready, tracking what she's already worn. At the beginning of Season 6, she wanted to feel confident for her first scene back in the office after breaking up with Jason Oppenheim, the brokerage's president, so she wore a red Ivy Park jumpsuit.
"Each season we would see what the feedback was and then it became about, 'how do we outdo ourselves?"' she said. "When somebody shows up in something so ridiculous, you can almost see what the meme is going to be when you're looking at it."
Deal Hunting and Diesel
If there's one thing to be said about Chelsea Lazkani's style, it's that she commits to the bit.
In an episode where she's meeting a fellow cast member for coffee, Ms. Lazkani wore a mini Diesel belt skirt that already had a viral moment in 2022 following its runway debut. Giving the skirt another chance at internet fame, the scene shows Ms. Lazkani struggling to sit down. What the viewer doesn't see is how she got there in the first place. "I put it on, and I got in my car, and I realized, 'oh my gosh, I can't sit down,"' said Ms. Lazkani, 30. "So I took the skirt off, I put it in the passenger seat, and I was driving in my underwear to get to set. As soon as I got to set, I put the skirt back on, and it was time to go."
On TikTok, Ms. Lazkani has been vocal about how the cast members have to pay for their own hair, makeup and wardrobe. So she tries to save where she can, and like anyone, she loves a good deal. "I'm utilizing resale places, I'm going to vintage stores, I'm going to thrift stores," she said.
Oh, and her iconic gloves? She ordered those on Amazon. "Thanks, Jeff Bezos," she said.
'I've always been extra'
Unlike some of the other agents, last season's new real estate associate Bre Tiesi said she "despises pink." Drawn to sportier and more masculine styles, she's seen in monochromatic looks and matching sets.
"I obviously step it up a little bit because we are on a show but for the most part, this is very much how I would dress for any occasion," said Ms. Tiesi, 32. "I've always been extra, I've always dressed over the top, so this isn't new by any means."
Ms. Tiesi is a new mom who doesn't always have the luxury to shop and peruse on her own since she gave birth to her son with Nick Cannon in 2022. To help build her looks, Ms. Tiesi said she employed stylists and personal shoppers.
In Season 6, Ms. Tiesi is seen on camera showing luxury homes to celebrity clients Saweetie and Deontay Wilder's fiancée Telli Swift. When she's working with her impressive clients, she said it's important for her to "dress the part" and show up "polished and put together."
"If you're showing up dressed for the occasion and you're selling a very expensive listing, I feel like those things are parallel," Ms. Tiesi said.
Stealth Wealth, Minus the Stealth
"I don't bring the drama, so I've got to bring the houses and the fashion," said Mary Fitzgerald, 43, who has been on the show since the first season's debut in 2019.
As Ms. Fitzgerald's status at the "O" Group rose -- she went from agent to partner and vice president -- so too did her style. In Season 1, she sported button-down blouses, blazers and an Oppenheim-branded baseball cap. Five seasons later, Ms. Fitzgerald wore a logo-clad Fendace power suit to the office. Her statement necklaces also stood out onscreen, including one with a colossal double-G Gucci logo and a pearl-stranded Vivienne Westwood choker that's been a TikTok favorite.
When asked what led to the personal style evolution, Ms. Fitzgerald had a simple answer: "Well, it's easier when you have more money." She also said that there's a competitive aspect of dressing up on the show, "where you know the other girls are going to be bringing the fashion, and it's like, OK, I gotta make an effort."
But she tones it down for much of her work life. "I tailor what I'm wearing to the client," Ms. Fitzgerald said. "If I'm showing an older couple in Bel Air, then I make sure I have more of a homey, kind of conservative look."
'It's not just about real estate anymore'
When Amanza Smith first joined "Selling Sunset" in its second season, she wore everything in her closet until she ran out of clothes. Then, she shopped at discount stores like Ross.
"I would have a $ 14 dress on, and nobody would even know because I would just pair it with some fancy shoes," said Ms. Smith, 46.
As the show and the houses grew bigger and the commissions higher, Ms. Smith began to feel the pressure to elevate her style. For Season 6, she worked with a celebrity stylist.
"It's not just about real estate anymore. People are looking at our outfits, our makeup and our hair just as much as they're looking at the beautiful homes," Ms. Smith said. "If we weren't filming a television show, would we be able to show up at the office in those outfits? I don't think so." Though Ms. Smith may no longer resort to shopping sprees at Ross, she decided to return to styling herself for Season 7, she said.
Gucci-ed Out
Jason Oppenheim, 46, who runs the brokerage with his twin brother, Brett Oppenheim, said he felt "boxed into professional attire" for much of his career.
"I got more style as I got more comfortable and more successful because I felt like I didn't need to be as rigid in my presentation," he said. At the show's start, Mr. Oppenheim wore ties, button-downs and sweaters -- a striped shirt was a wild card for him in those days.
But when "Queer Eye" star Tan France asked him why the men on the show don't dress up as much as the women, Mr. Oppenheim felt he needed to put in more effort. "That actually encouraged me to hire a stylist," said Mr. Oppenheim. "I have a stylist literally at my house now helping me with a look book in my closet."
These days, Mr. Oppenheim has been less afraid of color. He went through several polos from the Adidas and Gucci collaboration line, a favorite of his. "I definitely have a lot of Gucci shirts. And pants. And shoes."
Top, the cast of Netflix's "Selling Sunset," the reality show that follows a group of luxury real estate agents in Los Angeles. Second row, Chrishell Stause, left, in Season 6 and, right, in the Season 1. Above left and left, Amanza Smith. Above, Bre Tiesi, the new agent in Season 6. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK SELIGER; NETFLIX; SARA MALLY) This article appeared in print on page RE7.

Subject: Luxury homes; Celebrities

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Oppenheim Group; NAICS: 531210; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/03/realestate/selling-sunset-netflix-season-7-fashion.html

Title: Dressing for the Show. Real Estate Is the Side Gig.:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 19, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891380482

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressing-show-real-estate-is-side-gig/docview/2891380482/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Creative Collaboration With a Heavy Price: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Barbaro, Michael

Publication info: Barbaro, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creative-collaboration-with-heavy-price/docview/2890229725/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Adidas terminated its multibillion-dollar partnership with Kanye West over his antisemitic and other offensive public remarks, it seemed like a straightforward story of a celebrity's career suddenly imploding. But a New York Times examination has found that, behind the scenes, the collaboration was fraught from the start.
Megan Twohey, an investigative reporter for The Times, joined "The Daily" podcast to share what she discovered when she delved into the meltdown. She also discussed how the partnership came to be. Here is an edited excerpt from her conversation with the episode's host, Michael Barbaro.
Where should we start with your findings?
My reporting goes all the way back to the very beginning of this partnership in 2013. And what's important to know is that Adidas was feeling quite stalled at that time. It was in the hypercompetitive market of sneakers and had fallen way behind Nike. Nike had, in the 1980s, done a deal with Michael Jordan, who was then an up-and-coming basketball player, and had basically blown the competition away ever since.
Come 2013, Nike has 50 percent of the U.S. athletic shoe market compared to Adidas, which has just 8 percent. They are desperately looking for ways to start catching up. Enter Kanye West, one of the most popular musicians. That year, he comes out with an album, "Yeezus," which is topping the charts. And beyond that, he is just this incredible cultural force. He is engaged to Kim Kardashian, who is the star of reality television and soon to be of social media. So he is seen as somebody whose power, influence and celebrity stretch beyond the music that he makes.
But for all of his success in music, Kanye wants more. He has this burning desire for more creativity, for more power, for more influence. A lot of it is channeled into a burning ambition to break into fashion. But he keeps hearing that the best he could hope for is to put his name on other people's products. So he, in many ways, needs Adidas almost as much as Adidas needs him.
So what happens?
Adidas offers Kanye the most generous contract it has ever offered a nonathlete. He is going to be a co-creator of both shoes and apparel. He will collect a 15 percent royalty on net sales of whatever they make and get at least $ 3 million a year guaranteed.
Does Adidas have any reservations?
No. One of the things that I learned in talking to people who had worked so closely on this collaboration is that they knew that Kanye had a history of being dramatic, controversial and provocative. If you recall after Hurricane Katrina, he famously said on TV that President George W. Bush didn't care about Black people, which caused some controversy.
And he was also known for jumping up onstage to protest Taylor Swift winning an MTV award, which got a ton of attention. Adidas is saying, listen, maybe that provocative streak will actually work in our favor, that it's going to help benefit whatever products we make together.
Because after all, we're in an era of celebrity where bad news and good news get ambiguous. It's all good attention.
Right. Attention is attention and can help drive sales. But almost as soon as they get into business together, Adidas is glimpsing behavior behind the scenes that could potentially be much more problematic. Shortly after signing the contract, Kanye is hosting Adidas executives and other employees at his apartment in New York, and in the meeting, he forces them to watch pornography, ostensibly to spark creativity.
It's a very unusual introduction.
Yes, and I discovered something else startling that happened a couple of weeks later: Kanye is in Germany, the headquarters of Adidas, and they're rolling out the red carpet for him. They're so excited about this budding partnership, and they've assembled shoes and a mood board pinned with inspiration and sketches of designs of what the first shoe could look like. None of the designs look like what Kanye had tried to convey that he wanted. To emphasize his frustration, he takes a marker to the toe of a shoe design and draws a swastika.
What is the reaction in the room?
It is shocking, especially in Germany where it is illegal in many cases to draw or otherwise present swastikas. And it is especially sensitive for this company. The founder of Adidas, like many other businessmen from his time, belonged to the Nazi Party. They were just miles from Nuremberg, where members of the Third Reich were tried for crimes against humanity.
What comes of this shocking behavior?
An American manager who is part of that gathering assures his German colleagues that Kanye didn't understand that what he was doing was illegal and that he was really just voicing his frustration. But there are little glimpses of red flags that are going up, and some people see them and some people don't. I think there is an attitude that that's just the price of doing business with a creative genius.
Listen to this episode of "The Daily" at nytimes.com/thedaily.
Photograph Kanye West appeared on a runway in 2015 for his first fashion show with Adidas. The company ended its relationship with the rapper last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THEO WARGO/GETTY IMAGES FOR ADIDAS) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Collaboration; Celebrities

Location: New York; United States--US; Germany

People: West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/14/pageoneplus/16a2_insider.html

Title: A Creative Collaboration With a Heavy Price:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2890229725

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creative-collaboration-with-heavy-price/docview/2890229725/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

She's in Pursuit of Passions Beyond Fashion: [Style Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shes-pursuit-passions-beyond-fashion/docview/2890229711/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Grace Wales Bonner's approach to fashion can sometimes feel more like that of an academic rather than a designer.
Her collections for Wales Bonner, the brand she started in 2015, are informed by dazzlingly intensive research spanning critical theory, music, literature, history and mysticism. With a particular focus on Black identity and conversations about race, her sharply tailored, finely detailed clothes intertwine traditional African craft techniques with references to figures like the Ethiopian emperor Haile Selassie, the writer James Baldwin and the artist Theaster Gates and settings like the ballrooms of early 20th-century Harlem and the dance halls of 1970s Jamaica.
Her clever embrace of so many perspectives and personalities, and her proudly Afro-Atlantic approach to fashion, has made Ms. Wales Bonner, 33, an increasingly influential figure in field. She has an ongoing partnership with Adidas and has designed uniforms for the Jamaican men and women's soccer teams. This year, she began showing her collections in Paris, the creative and commercial epicenter of luxury fashion. When major jobs open up at top design houses, she is often rumored to be in the running.
But Ms. Wales Bonner is also a polymath with artistic ambitions outside fashion. This week, after more than four years of research, an exhibition she curated will open at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The show, "Spirit Movers," includes more than 40 works from the museum's collection and is part of MoMA's Artist's Choice series. Artists include Man Ray, Alexander Calder, Betye Saar, Moustapha Dimé and Terry Adkins.
Before the Nov. 18 opening, Ms. Wales Bonner sat down in her London studio to talk about the appeal of institutional curation and the importance of sound in her work in fashion and beyond.
You have said that clothing is your most direct form of communication. So why choose to do an art exhibition?
I see my research as an artistic practice -- it really is the foundation of everything I do -- and clothing is a very direct way to communicate some aspects.
But curating is something that I like doing because it's on a very different timeline to fashion, which is very cyclical and has a certain pace to it. I like it -- it makes me productive -- but I think there are certain limitations to what you can explore intellectually.
The MoMA show is something I've worked on for years. I've also worked with MoMA on a photography book called "Dream in the Rhythm," which is designed to be viewed alongside the exhibition, which is potentially more lasting. So it's been really exciting to create experiences for people that are very different from those I produce for the fashion space.
What is this show about?
The exhibition explores how sound can be translated into different mediums and charge objects or images with meaning. I looked for art that I think has the ability to translate some kind of sonic or spiritual potential. The title, "Spirit Movers," is a nod to this idea that art works aren't static but are dynamic entities connected to ritual, devotion and collective experience.
How does rhythm manifest in your own work?
I'm very drawn to sound and experiences, and music plays a central role in my research. As a designer, I'm always trying to articulate a sound through clothing or image-making, the idea of bringing rhythm into cloth. It's a real challenge, which is why I keep coming back to it again and again in my work.
Can you give any examples of key pieces?
One work that is key to the show is called "Last Trumpet," by Terry Adkins. He created these very elongated horns using different parts of old musical instruments, linking to this idea of sonic potential and performance but also a new state of being. I've been told that he meditated with a lot of his pieces, and I think you can feel his presence in them. They have a spiritual quality.
Is your own research work a meditative state?
Working through archive material and spending time with creations of people who came before me is like an engaged spiritual practice. It enables me to access the sentiments and attitudes of different generations. It makes me feel very guided on a personal level. The translation into design is a different process, but I would say that is very pure and directed as well.
What was the most challenging part of putting on the show?
Because the MoMA collection is so vast, it was easy to get excited and distracted and not be focused in terms of a theme. So editing and refining and creating a coherent story, or feeling, was the challenge. I really wanted to create space around the artworks and allow for some imaginative potential.
Editing is a big part of what I do with Wales Bonner. Output is one thing. Refining is another. That's what makes it storytelling.
Much of your fashion work focuses on spotlighting the Black diaspora. Is that also the case here?
The Black diaspora is a constant inspiration to me. But what I like about this exhibition is that I was able to make it broader and very international.
David Hammons created this quite incredible artwork with human hair and paint called "Afro Asian Eclipse (or Black China)," exploring Afro-Asian connections. That work then opened up the possibility of thinking about different Asian artists like Yasunao Tone, a Japanese artist who was also part of the Fluxus movement and who created a musical composition piece called "Anagram for Strings."
Are there inspirations from the fashion world?
In the accompanying book, I am looking for works that express a sense of beauty or an understanding of Black style. A lot of the time, even with design, it's real people, or documents of real people, that I'm inspired by -- how they wear clothes, how they embody style and reflect an identity through it.
So there are certain photographers featured, like Roy DeCarava, who was known for capturing the Black urban American experience. Photography has basically built my understanding of style. Knowledge isn't given to you. You've got to spend time creating threads for yourself.
When I was in high school, I never thought I would have a career in fashion. I actually wanted to be a historian.
You now show your fashion collections in Paris. Why?
When I started my brand, I wanted to bring a very elegant and refined vision that elevated the location of Blackness within culture. A lot has changed in the landscape of fashion and art since then, so in many ways that mission has been realized. Now we are trying to build an important institution with Wales Bonner, which means being in and showing in Paris. I don't see what I do as being an outsider. You can have more influence being part of something and disrupting from within.
This interview has been edited and condensed.
Photograph Michelle Kuo, above left, a curator at the Museum of Modern Art, and Grace Wales Bonner, above right and top, at work on the installation of "Spirit Movers." Top right, David Hammons's "Afro Asian Eclipse (or Black China)," 1978. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN DORADO; BAFIC FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DAVID HAMMONS) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Clothing; Design; Artists; Modern art; Books; Diaspora; Art galleries & museums; Art exhibits

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: Wales; China; United Kingdom--UK

People: Bonner, Grace Wales; Hammons, David

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/16/style/grace-wales-bonner-has-set-her-sights-beyond-fashion.html

Title: She's in Pursuit of Passions Beyond Fashion:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 16, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2890229711

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shes-pursuit-passions-beyond-fashion/docview/2890229711/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2887186642/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: COMPANIES
Adidas May Write Off Unsold Yeezy Shoes
Adidas said it might have to write off the remaining 300 million euros ( $ 320 million) worth of Yeezy shoes left unsold after it cut ties with the rapper Ye, formerly known as Kanye West. The company will decide in the coming weeks whether or not to do a third release of the shoes next year to generate more donations to groups fighting antisemitism.
The shoe and sports clothing company, which cut ties with Ye in October 2022 after he made antisemitic remarks online, has sold 750 million euros worth of the shoes in two stages this year through Adidas smartphone apps and its website.
The company included the possible write-off of the remaining Yeezy inventory in its outlook Wednesday for its earnings this year, narrowing its expected loss to 100 million euros from an earlier prediction of 450 million euros, thanks in part to the earlier two releases of Yeezy shoes. ASSOCIATED PRESS
EARNINGS
High Snack Prices Lift Sales for Kellanova
Kellanova, formerly Kellogg, and its newly spun-off North America cereal business, WK Kellogg, beat third-quarter sales estimates on Wednesday, supported by higher prices for their ready-to-eat breakfast cereals and snacks.
Packaged food companies like Kraft Heinz and Campbell Soup have increased their margins through repeated price increases over the last two years. But Kellanova and WK Kellogg warned that persistent inflation had made consumers sensitive to such increases.
Kellanova, whose brands include Cheez-It crackers and Pringles, recorded a 7.4 percent decline in overall volumes for the quarter, while WK Kellogg posted a 13.4 percent fall.
Kellanova posted quarterly net sales of $ 3.94 billion, beating expectations of $ 3.62 billion, according to LSEG data. WK Kellogg reported better-than-expected sales of $ 692 million. REUTERS
AUTOMOBILES
G.M. and StellantisInvest in Magnet Maker
The venture capital arms of General Motors and Stellantis are among investors sinking $ 33 million into a Minnesota company with technology to make magnets for electric vehicle motors without using expensive rare-earth metals.
Niron Magnetics of Minneapolis says it can build permanent magnets by using iron nitride, which is abundant and inexpensive compared with rare-earth minerals.
The investment announced Wednesday comes as electric vehicle sales growth slowing and G.M. and Ford have started to pull back on their spending.
Neither G.M. nor Stellantis would say how much they are investing in Niron, has 60 employees and plans to double that number by the end of the year.
The magnets can be used in consumer electronics, industrial motors, pumps, compressors, wind turbines and other products, Niron said. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Antisemitism; Electric vehicles

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Kellanova; NAICS: 311230, 311412, 311919

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/08/business/09bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2887186642

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2887186642/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This Marathon Shoe Lasts for Just One Race: [Correction]

Author: Nerkar, Santul

Publication info: Nerkar, Santul. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-marathon-shoe-lasts-just-one-race/docview/2885974587/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A new Adidas model carried a runner to a world record. Athletes say they can feel a difference, but it comes with a high price tag and wears out quickly.
When Ashley Mateo went through a recent track workout, something felt different. She hit her intervals faster than usual, her heart rate was lower, and her feet felt lighter. When she ran her next marathon, she achieved a personal record.
Ms. Mateo, a journalist and 15-time marathoner who reviews running shoes, believes she may have improved her performance thanks to the Adizero Adios Pro Evo 1 by Adidas, a new marathon race shoe with an eye-popping $ 500 price tag. There's another catch: The Evo 1 lasts long enough for just one marathon, plus an unspecified "familiarization period."
Despite her positive experience, Ms. Mateo isn't sure the shoes are worth the cost, which she didn't have to pay as a reviewer. "I don't think the shoe is going to work for everyone," she said.
The shoes are the lightest ever produced by Adidas and the latest entry in a heated competition to make the best carbon-fiber racing shoes. Only 521 pairs have been released to the public so far, targeted at runners who can run a marathon in 3 hours 30 minutes or faster.
Some runners who have raced in them say they can immediately feel a difference, and Tigist Assefa of Ethiopia ran the fastest marathon ever by a woman in a pair, shattering the previous record by more than two minutes at the Berlin Marathon in September.
Yet the shoes' short shelf life has raised concerns and made some in the running community question whether the hype is deserved.
Aside from their lightness, the shoes' other technology -- a new foam and new structure -- is unlikely to provide a big edge, if any, experts say. And at $ 500 per marathon and tryout run, they're among the least sustainable shoes out there. Adidas said it intended to keep the price at $ 500, which, it added, "reflects the high-performance materials and designs within the product."
"We have marketing claims and a pair of promises about improvements," said Ross Tucker, an exercise physiologist who runs The Science of Sport, a popular blog for runners. "We have a world record in the marathon. But we don't actually have any evidence, not compared to its peers and certainly not compared to its predecessors."
Nike has long dominated the marathon racing shoe market with its Vaporfly line. A carbon-fiber plate in the Vaporfly's midsole stores and releases energy with every stride. That, combined with a midsole foam called Pebax, catapults long-distance runners forward, improving times around 4 percent compared with average shoes.
Soon after its release in 2017 with its own hefty $ 250 sticker price, Vaporflys helped elite runners smash records. Other shoe companies followed suit, with New Balance, Saucony and Hoka among the brands to release carbon-plated shoes.
Adidas's new shoe features three key developments. At 4.9 ounces in a men's Size 9, it's about 25 percent lighter than the latest Vaporfly. The company says the new foam boosts energy capture, and a change to the shoe's design curves the sole up near the toes.
It's well established in sports science that the lighter the shoe, the faster the runner. The weight difference between an Evo 1 and a Vaporfly might shave around 20 seconds off a marathoner's time, said Geoff Burns, a physiologist at the University of Michigan who studies running biomechanics.
That's the only improvement that would be likely to show up, Dr. Burns said, if he got down to testing the shoes in his lab. Changes in the foam and rocker are unlikely to be significant, adding at most "fractions of a percent in efficiency," he said.
When the Vaporfly arrived, it took years of testing and a New York Times analysis to confirm the shoe's speed boost, which turned out to be around 4 percent. The Evo 1, Dr. Burns said, isn't much of a departure from the Vaporfly. It's "the exact same recipe, with different spices added to the foam," he said.
While researchers are skeptical of the Evo 1's effectiveness, some runners have felt the benefits. Michael Ko, a runner who reviews shoes on his YouTube channel, "Kofuzi," said the Evo 1, which he received from Adidas to review, felt fast, cushioned and light. He said he aimed to run his fastest half-marathon in them.
"They're like nothing that's out there," Mr. Ko said. "You can tell there's something special when you wear them."
The shoe's durability remains a worry. As with all race shoes, the trade-off for speed is less mass and support than standard running shoes. Racing shoes like the Vaporfly typically last at least four marathons, and Dr. Tucker and Dr. Burns expressed concerns that if the Evo 1 was good for only one marathon, it would show signs of degradation during the race itself.
"If you're not a lightweight, pretty fast runner, who doesn't absolutely destroy shoes, you'll probably struggle to get even that out of it," Dr. Tucker said.
That wasn't the experience for Thomas Neuberger, a runner and the founder of Believe in the Run, a running news and shoe reviews site. Mr. Neuberger, who was sent a pair of the Evo 1s from Adidas, said the 2-ounce difference between the Evo 1s and Vaporfly had become stark at the end of a recent half marathon.
"After a while, it's kind of like holding a book above your head," Mr. Neuberger said. "When you first hold that book, it doesn't feel that heavy."
The extreme payout for such a small improvement in performance is emblematic of the times in running, Dr. Burns said. Athletes exhaust every option at their disposal for the right price, whether it's hiring a team of pacers to break a world record, jet-setting across the world or paying $ 500 for a pair of shoes you'll wear just once, he said.
Ms. Mateo said that the rocker style of the shoe was her favorite part, and that the shoe "didn't feel like it was at the end of its life" after the race. But she added that the cost, which she didn't have to pay as a reviewer, was a nonstarter, and that feel was a matter of personal preference and biomechanics.
"They feel fast, but every runner responds differently to different shoes," Ms. Mateo said.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOHATT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; FILIP SINGER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page BU8.

Subject: Running; Athletic shoes; Carbon; Biomechanics; Marathons

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Title: This Marathon Shoe Lasts for Just One Race:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 5, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885974587

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-marathon-shoe-lasts-just-one-race/docview/2885974587/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What It’s Actually Like to Run the New York City Marathon Route

Author: Minsberg, Talya

Publication info: Minsberg, Talya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-s-actually-like-run-new-york-city-marathon/docview/2885667522/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — The New York City Marathon is not where world records are set.
Those blazing times are clocked on flat and fast courses in Chicago, Berlin and London. Runners there can easily be dropped off by a cab shortly before the starting gun, yawn and get going.
This is New York.
This is a marathon for 50,000 people who go on a public transportation odyssey to reach a brutally challenging course that crosses five bridges and five boroughs.
It’s a race for runners who want to prove this city deserves to be called the greatest on the planet, home of the greatest marathon in the world.
Marathon Sunday might as well be a holiday. It’s a reason to cheer on a random person doing a random thing on a random day for God knows what reason, but hey — go you. Write your name on your T-shirt, and you’ll feel like a celebrity for 26.2 miles.
Here’s a guide to the New York City Marathon, from the vantage point of its 50,000 lucky runners.
The Marathon Before the Marathon
To run the New York City Marathon, you’ve got to get to the start line.
If you aren’t taking a chartered bus over the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge before it closes to traffic, you will probably take some combination of a cab, a subway, a ferry and a bus. You will soon know enough about public transit to run the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the state agency that oversees the subway and buses.
If you get confused by the maps and the logistics, follow the people wearing layers of fuzzy clothing and carrying bananas and water bottles in clear plastic bags. They’ll lead you to the starting village.
Settle In to the Starting Village
On the map for the marathon, you’ll see a big dot denoting the start line. What you won’t see is the sprawling village there — a holding area for the tens of thousands of people nervously waiting to be called up for their turn.
There are tents with therapy dogs and tents with coffee. There are tents with groups stretching and tents with bagels. There are 1,700 toilets and an unbelievable number of people in line for their prerace poop. You can laugh, but it will be you soon enough.
Frank Sinatra, Send Us Off
Finally, your wave of runners is called to the start line. Suddenly, you are at the base of the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge and military and police officers are restraining your energy with strings (really). With the sound of a cannon, the officers let you go free, and Frank Sinatra welcomes you to the streets of New York.
But remember that you are at the base of a 2-mile bridge. That means your legs will be forced to slow just a bit, and that’s a good thing. Look to your left. See Manhattan? One World Trade Center? The Empire State Building?
Don’t get too excited too quickly — you have a lot of miles ahead of you.
‘Welcome to Brooklyn’
There’s usually someone holding a sign at the other end of the bridge welcoming you to Brooklyn. They are the first of the millions of spectators who will greet you in their neighborhoods.
Turn right onto Fourth Avenue and lock in. Four and a half miles straight through Bay Ridge, Sunset Park and Park Slope will slingshot you to downtown Brooklyn.
The crowds on Fourth Avenue build as you get closer to Barclays Center, and it’s easy to get carried away. Salute the bands, give high-fives to children and thank the volunteers handing out water. You already have 8 miles under you.
Some of the best parties on the course happen on the stoops of brownstones along Lafayette Avenue. There will be music. There will be dancing. Take that energy in and give it right back. Dance a bit, smile and thank everyone for cheering you on.
Now hold that crowd support close. You’ll need it later.
Doughnuts in Williamsburg and Greenpoint
The crowds quiet down in South Williamsburg, a perfect time to take stock. You’ve now reached double digits in your mileage. Do you need more water? Running gels? Are you going too fast? Too slow?
Take some deep breaths. Soon, you’ll be in the party pockets of North Williamsburg and Greenpoint, where there’s a good chance you’ll be offered bananas, doughnuts and shots of alcohol.
Partake at your own risk — you have to run over the Pulaski Bridge into Queens soon.
Dip Through Queens, Then Hit the ‘Woo’ Bridge
It’s natural to turn into Queens and take an exaggerated gulp. Yes, that’s the Queensboro Bridge ahead, and yes, it’s big and long.
That’s why the crowds in Long Island City are so good. Get some extra high-fives here as you zigzag through the borough for a quick 2 miles. Then a quiet will descend as you charge up the bridge. The only thing you will hear is the pitter-patter of running shoes and the labored breathing of marathoners.
After a while, some runners will start to cheer, knowing that even with 15 miles done, you all need some encouragement. Let out a “woo” that will echo as you push one another along, and share some uplifting words. Listen to your breathing and keep calm.
As you exit the Queensboro Bridge into Manhattan, you’ll lean to your left and run straight into a wall of sound. On either side of First Avenue, crowds four to five people deep will be craning their necks looking for their loved ones.
You have 10 miles to go. Use the hills on First Avenue, and keep your eye on the street numbers. The Willis Avenue Bridge to the Bronx is waiting for you past 125th Street.
A Boogie-Filled Jaunt in the Bronx
No borough shows more pride than the Bronx. The local run crews bring the music and spirit you’re going to need when you hit mile 20.
Break through that wall — as a sign will inevitably say — and then get over that last bridge. The energy of the Bronx will drive you back into Manhattan.
Not Quite the Fifth Avenue Homestretch
You’ll turn back into Manhattan on Fifth Avenue and realize that this is the street that will take you to Central Park, home of the finish line. You’ve got less than 10 kilometers (about 6.2 miles) to go. This is where the race really starts.
Keep your cool as you run from 138th Street to Central Park North at 110th Street. That’s where a hill will begin. It’s not a mountain, but beginning near mile 23, it might as well be. Put your head down and your knees up, pumping those arms.
Central Park Beckons You
A sharp right on 90th Street will take you into Central Park, and suddenly it will dawn on you.
You have just over 2 miles left.
You are in the park, the park you have been running toward for the last 24 miles. You are really going to do it. You are really going to finish this thing.
There are some hills in the park — don’t say we didn’t warn you — but take them as they come.
Keep it together. Say that to yourself a few times now.
You’re Actually Almost There
You will be spit out of the park (on a downhill) to run along Central Park South. When you turn right back into the park at Columbus Circle, there will be hundreds of flags waving to welcome you home. For the first time, people screaming “You’re almost there” are telling the truth.
Your whole body should be screaming, too. That means you’ve done this thing right. Let your adrenaline pull you over that final incline.
Cross the finish line in one last stride and finally, finally, stop running. Put your hands above your head and breathe.
Shuffle along toward the medals and smile.
You earned it.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Running; Athletic shoes; Parks & recreation areas; Marathons

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

People: Sinatra, Frank

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Columbus Circle (Manhattan, Ny); Central Park South (Manhattan, Ny); Railroads; Plastic Bags; South Williamsburg (Brooklyn, Ny); Marathon Running; Bronx (Nyc); Queens (Nyc); Willis Avenue Bridge (Nyc); Parks And Other Recreation Areas; Subways; Sinatra, Frank; Williamsburg (Brooklyn, Ny); New York City; Sports; Central Park (Manhattan, Ny); Dancing; Barclays Plc; Bridges And Tunnels; Records And Achievements; New York City Marathon; Sunset Park (Brooklyn, Ny); Brooklyn (Nyc); Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Greenpoint (Brooklyn, Ny); Senses And Sensation; Tents; Buses; Park Slope (Brooklyn, Ny); Empire State Building (Manhattan, Ny); 1 World Trade Center (Manhattan, Ny); Greeting Gestures; Sneakers; Queensboro Bridge (Nyc); Transit Systems; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Bay Ridge (Brooklyn, Ny); Running; Street Performers; Chicago (Ill); Manhattan (Nyc); Barclays Center (Brooklyn, Ny)

Title: What It’s Actually Like to Run the New York City Marathon Route

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-03T22:37:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885667522

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/ne wspapers/what-s-actually-like-run-new-york-city-marathon/docview/2885667522/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Examining the Government's Claim That Cryptocurrency Helps Fuel Terrorism: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Livni, Ephrat; Nocera, Joe

Publication info: Livni, Ephrat; Nocera, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/examining-governments-claim-that-cryptocurrency/docview/2883426689/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A report that terror groups raised more than $ 130 million in crypto during recent years has set off a debate in Washington and finance circles.
The United States will go after cryptocurrency firms that fail to stop terrorist groups from moving money, the U.S. deputy Treasury secretary, Wally Adeyemo, warned on Friday.
"If they do not act to prevent illicit financial flows" Mr. Adeyemo said in a speech at the Royal United Services Institute in London, "the United States and our partners will."
Adeyemo's comments follow a letter by Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, and dozens of members of Congress this month that called for the Biden administration to crack down on the use of cryptocurrency by terrorists. It cited a report that the terror groups Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad have raised more than $ 130 million in crypto in recent years.
All of this has set off a raging debate in Washington and the worlds of crypto and finance over how much cryptocurrency is contributing to terrorism.
Elliptic, the firm that provided some of the data for the report, countered in a blog post this week that there was "no evidence to suggest that crypto fund-raising has raised anything close to" the figure cited, and that some of the money included in the total number might have gone to small crypto brokers sometimes designated as terrorist organizations for their role in financing. The analytics firm Chainalysis, which did not provide data for the report, said that when terror funding estimates include all funds to these service providers, they inaccurately assume everything that flows to the service is associated with terrorism.
"Crypto lobbyists are trying to minimize the role of crypto-financed terrorism," Senator Warren told DealBook, dismissing the pushback. (Elliptic did not respond to a request for comment.)
Because crypto is anonymous, borderless and moves through intermediaries that operate in regulatory gray spaces, critics have for years flagged that it could be used for fund-raising by terrorists. But how realistic is that threat?
The war in Gaza may be driving a rise in crypto fund-raising by terror groups, some authorities say. Tom Alexandrovich, executive director of the Cyber Defense Division at the Israel National Cyber Directorate, has said there is a "super" increase in crypto fund-raising for terror groups as they are being cut off by traditional sources like banks.
Crypto is "a problem" but it is not the main source of funding for Hamas, said Shlomit Wagman, a Harvard scholar and former chair of the Israeli Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Prohibition Authority, who testified at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on terror financing this week. State actors, like Iran and Turkey, are the main funding drivers for Palestinian terrorist groups, followed by business portfolios with real estate and investments, humanitarian aid and fund-raising, including crypto.
Some aspects of crypto may limit its use by terrorists. The open digital ledgers where crypto transactions are recorded can be (and are) traced to catch bad actors. In April, Hamas's armed wing announced it would stop Bitcoin fund-raising because the activity was tracked and exposed donors. Yaya J. Fanusie, a former C.I.A. counterterrorism analyst who is now head of the anti-money laundering unit at the industry group Crypto Council for Innovation, told DealBook that a terrorist crypto crowdfunding campaign "is like putting your bank account number on the internet and telling people 'donate to Hamas here."'
Members of Congress are calling for more enforcement and legislation. Ms. Warren and other lawmakers have proposed an array of bills that would address crypto terror financing in various ways, including by giving authorities more financial resources to address the threat. The Financial Action Task Force, an international financial regulatory agency with participants from countries around the world, has a regulatory framework for crypto, but many countries have not fully applied it and oversight is often weak, Ms. Wagman said.
The reckoning is overdue, some experts say. Alex Zerden, founder of the risk advisory firm Capitol Peak Strategies and a former official at the Treasury's Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, told DealBook that debates about the data did not undermine the dawning realization that digital assets are part of this funding picture. "There is no de minimis exception for terror financing, regardless of the medium," he said.
Senator Cynthia Lummis, Republican of Wyoming and a crypto champion, reached the same conclusion. "Crypto is being used to finance terrorism," she said at the hearing on Thursday. "Even one dollar is too much." -- Ephrat Livni
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
Brisk U.S. economic growth raises questions about more rate raises. Third-quarter G.D.P. data released this week showed the economy growing at its fastest pace in two years, while the Fed's preferred inflation gauge painted a similar picture of robust consumer spending. The reports came ahead of next week's Fed meeting, where officials are expected to keep interest rates steady -- but leave the door open for increases in the future.
Sam Bankman-Fried testifies in his defense. The head of the collapsed FTX cryptocurrency trading platform, who is accused of using as much as $ 10 billion in customer deposits to finance lavish spending, said on Friday he did not tell anyone to break any laws.
Ford struck a tentative new contract with the U.A.W. The deal, which must be ratified by union members, would raise wages by 25 percent over four years and bring improvements on job security, pensions and more.
How Adidas tolerated years of misconduct by Kanye West. A New York Times investigation into the sportswear giant's decade-long partnership with West found numerous instances of the company ignoring antisemitic and sexually offensive remarks to preserve their ties.
Private equity and the pandemic
Joe Nocera and Bethany McLean, both veteran journalists, recently published "The Big Fail," a book that catalogs the United States' response to the pandemic, including how changes in business over the 50 years hurt the country's ability to fight Covid-19. Joe writes about one of those changes, the rise of private equity, below.
In 1980, there were 24 private equity firms, according to Prequin, which tracks alternative assets; by 2022, there were around 5,000 private equity firms controlling some 18,000 companies. Among the industries where private equity sank deep roots was health care. Private equity's defenders, such the Healthcare Private Equity Association, say that its members are "building strong companies to positively impact health care," but its critics say there is an irreconcilable conflict between building profits for investors and doing what is best for patients. The nursing home industry, they say, is one of the starkest examples.
Nursing homes cannot easily absorb the debt of a private-equity deal. The model depends on borrowing money to buy a company and then putting the debt on the balance sheet of the acquired company. With nursing homes, the firms often sell the underlying property to a real estate investment trust -- forcing nursing homes to pay rent for facilities they had previously owned, while the cash from the sale goes to investors. Nursing homes do not have the ability to expand like a typical company, says Sabrina T. Howell, an economist at New York University who studies private equity, because they derive 70 and 90 percent of revenue from the federal government.
Thin margins have forced many nursing homes to shrink their nursing staff, leaving them ill prepared when the pandemic hit. Ms. Howell was a co-author of a study in 2019 that concluded that private-equity ownership can increase nursing home mortality by 11 percent. One New Jersey analysis found that facilities owned by private equity had a higher rate of Covid-19 deaths and cases than nursing homes not owned by private equity. In New Hampshire, by the end of 2020 one-fifth of all Covid deaths took place in three nursing homes owned by Genesis Healthcare, then controlled by Formation Capital, a private-equity firm narrowly focused on nursing homes.
Most economists who study this problem say the incentives are misaligned. Fewer than 20 percent of all nursing homes meet a recently proposed minimum staffing level, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation estimate. And Mark Parkinson, the chief executive of the American Health Care Association, which represents 14,000 nursing homes, described that proposal as "unfounded, unfunded and unrealistic."
"Nursing homes are producing a good that we think has an important social function, which is why the government is essentially paying for it," Ms. Howell said. "And the strategies that lead to maximizing profits are not the strategies that are necessarily in the best interest of taxpayers or the customers."
Potential doesn't work how you think it does
The truly great are not necessarily those with the most innate talent, or even those who work hardest, but those with the skills for learning and adapting, says Adam Grant in his latest book, "Hidden Potential: The Science of Achieving Greater Things." DealBook spoke with Grant, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, about why understanding potential is important for business leaders.
The interview has been condensed and edited.
What is the key to spotting potential in job interviews?
Past experience is a terrible predictor of future performance. Like almost entirely useless. Terrible. So I would throw "number of years of experience in a similar role" right out the window.
I would focus much less on somebody's past level of performance and much more on the slope of their performance. So have they shown significant gains? Have they demonstrated a capacity to overcome adversity?
How does understanding potential change who you promote?
We tend to promote the person in a group that talks the most, that's called the "Babble Effect." We're mistaking their confidence for competence, which it is most definitely not. Let's try to promote people who are not determined to be the smartest person in the room, but rather want to make the room smarter. So that means actually taking a look at, what is the impact of this person on other people around them? Have they elevated their colleagues, or have they undermined their colleagues?
You write that organizations should be structured as a lattice instead of a ladder. Why?
In a typical organization, the hierarchy is structured like a ladder where if you have an idea, you have to take it up the hierarchy, and all it takes is one boss to say no to kill your idea. In a lattice system, you are given the opportunity to reach out to multiple people at different levels and all you need is one yes to get the green light. And what that does is enhances the collective intelligence of the group. It makes it possible for ideas that have hidden potential, and people who have hidden potential, to water them and grow them, as opposed to just having them ripped out at their roots, so to speak.
Sarah Kessler contributed reporting.
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Sarah Kessler contributed reporting.
Photograph Wally Adeyemo, the U.S. deputy Treasury secretary, said crypto firms must "act to prevent illicit financial flows." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL LEAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Terrorism financing; Funding; Health care; Pandemics; Digital currencies; Money laundering; International finance; REITs; Private equity; COVID-19; Nursing homes

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies International finance REITs Private equity Nursing homes

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/28/business/dealbook/is-crypto-financing-terrorism.html

Title: Examining the Government's Claim That Cryptocurrency Helps Fuel Terrorism:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 30, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883426689

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/examining-governments-claim-that-cryptocurrency/docview/2883426689/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 30, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Money, Misconduct and the Price of Appeasement: [National Desk]

Author: Twohey, Megan

Publication info: Twohey, Megan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/money-misconduct-price-appeasement/docview/2883190452/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Adidas team was huddled with Kanye West, pitching ideas for the first shoe they would create together. It was 2013, and the rapper and the sportswear brand had just agreed to become partners. The Adidas employees, thrilled to get started, had arrayed sneakers and fabric swatches on a long table near a mood board pinned with images.
But nothing they showed that day at the company's German headquarters captured the vision Mr. West had shared. To convey how offensive he considered the designs, he grabbed a sketch of a shoe and took a marker to the toe, according to two participants. Then he drew a swastika.
It was shocking, especially to the Germans in the group. Most displays of the symbol are banned in their country. The image was acutely sensitive for a company whose founder belonged to the Nazi Party. And they were meeting just miles from Nuremberg, where leaders of the Third Reich were tried for crimes against humanity.
That encounter was a sign of what was to come during a collaboration that would break the boundaries of celebrity endorsement deals. Sales of the shoes, Yeezys, would surpass $ 1 billion a year, lifting Adidas's bottom line and recapturing its cool. Mr. West, who now goes by Ye, would become a billionaire.
When the company ended the relationship last October, it appeared to be the culmination of weeks of Mr. West's inflammatory public remarks -- targeting Jews and disparaging Black Lives Matter -- and outside pressure on the brand to cut ties. But it was also the culmination of a decade of Adidas's tolerance behind the scenes.
Inside their partnership, the artist made antisemitic and sexually offensive comments, displayed erratic behavior, and issued ever escalating demands, a New York Times examination found. Adidas's leaders, eager for the profits, time and again abided his misconduct.
When he exploded in bitter outbursts at Adidas managers, the company typically sought not to rein him in but to appease him. In negotiations over the years, Adidas kept sweetening the deal, doubling down on its investment and tethering its fortunes more closely to him.
Even as Mr. West voiced increasingly toxic beliefs, privately and publicly, Adidas stepped up production and released Yeezys more frequently. And executives disregarded employee concerns that his troubling conduct risked tainting the brand's reputation.
As companies increasingly turn to deals with celebrities, the Yeezy collaboration shows the precarious balance of risk and reward. Adidas entered the partnership in hopes of catching up to Nike, which had long dominated the hypercompetitive global sneaker market. But working with Mr. West, one of the most influential artists in the world -- a "master of spectacle," as one former executive put it -- meant being tied to a provocative, polarizing and sometimes unstable personality.
While some other brands have been quick to end deals over offensive or embarrassing behavior, Adidas held on for years.
This article is the fullest accounting yet of their relationship. While some details have been reported earlier, The Times interviewed current and former employees of Adidas and of Mr. West, and obtained hundreds of previously undisclosed internal records -- contracts, text messages, memos and financial documents -- that reveal episodes throughout a partnership that was fraught from the start.
Just weeks before the 2013 swastika incident, The Times found, Mr. West made Adidas executives watch pornography during a meeting at his Manhattan apartment, ostensibly to spark creativity. In February 2015, preparing to show the first Yeezy collection at New York Fashion Week, staff members complained that he had upset them with angry, sexually crude comments.
He later advised a Jewish Adidas manager to kiss a picture of Hitler every day, and he told a member of the company's executive board that he had paid a seven-figure settlement to one of his own senior employees who accused him of repeatedly praising the architect of the Holocaust.
Again and again, Mr. West contended that Adidas was exploiting him. "I feel super disrespected in this 'partnership,"' he said in one text message. "I've never felt understood," he wrote in another. He routinely sought more money and power, even suggesting that he should become Adidas's chief executive.
His complaints were often delivered amid mood swings, creating whiplash for the Adidas team working with him. Diagnosed with bipolar disorder, he at times rejected the assessment and resisted treatment. Tears were common; so was fury.
Meeting with Adidas's leaders in November 2019 to discuss his demands, he hurled shoes around the room. The month before, an internal text message described him becoming "fully, fully ramped up" and charging, "'This is slavery"' -- an accusation he leveled multiple times during the partnership.
As Adidas grew more reliant on Yeezy sales, so did Mr. West. In addition to royalties and upfront cash, the company eventually agreed to another enticement: $ 100 million annually, officially for Yeezy marketing but, in practice, a fund that he could spend with little oversight.
At the same time, he scaled his goals, opening an unaccredited Christian school, taking on a disastrous 2020 presidential campaign that reflected his rightward political drift, and promising to create flying cars, build futuristic communities and otherwise solve the world's problems.
In a statement to The Times, Adidas said it "has no tolerance for hate speech and offensive behavior, which is why the company terminated the Adidas Yeezy partnership." The brand turned down interview requests and, citing confidentiality rules, declined to comment on financial aspects of the collaboration and Adidas's relationship with Mr. West.
Mr. West declined interview requests and did not respond to written questions or provide comments.
After the relationship ruptured and Yeezy sales came to a halt, both Adidas and the musician were hit hard. The company projected its first annual loss in decades. Mr. West's net worth plummeted.
But they had at least one more chance to keep making money together.
The company announced in May that it would begin releasing the remaining $ 1.3 billion worth of Yeezys from warehouses around the world. As the shoes have reappeared, so has Mr. West. He performed onstage for the first time in over a year. Music from what is rumored to be his comeback album has leaked online.
And he trademarked a new Yeezy creation, a sock shoe, suggesting he intends to keep making footwear -- with or without Adidas.
'The World Changes Now'
The Yeezy debut at New York Fashion Week in 2015 was a display of star power. The front row was packed with Jay-Z, Beyoncé, Rihanna and a cluster of Kardashians. The event streamed in movie theaters around the world.
It was exactly what Mr. West -- and Adidas -- had wanted.
The company's roots stretch back nearly a century, when Adi Dassler began making athletic shoes in the laundry room of his family's Bavarian home. He pioneered track shoes with custom spikes and outfitted Jesse Owens for his Olympic triumphs.
Like many business owners of his era, Mr. Dassler joined the Nazi Party. After World War II, he founded Adidas, which went on to capture much of the soccer-based market in Europe and made inroads in America as hip-hop stars helped popularize the brand.
But everything changed after Nike signed an endorsement deal in 1984 with an up-and-coming basketball player named Michael Jordan. That partnership would help turn sneakers, cheap to make overseas and sold at a high markup, into cultural currency around the world. And Nike, making billions of dollars a year from Air Jordans, became No. 1.
By 2013, Adidas had just 8 percent of the U.S. athletic footwear market, compared with Nike's nearly 50 percent, according to industry data, and it was losing hope of catching up.
Mr. West was also feeling stalled.
Raised in Chicago by his mother, an English professor, he achieved early success producing music for Jay-Z and other artists before becoming a rap star.
His 2004 debut album, "The College Dropout," was considered game changing for hip-hop, for its cutting-edge production and for Mr. West's middle-class viewpoint and preppy-meets-street style.
He was at once extremely boastful (one 2013 track is titled "I Am a God") and openly self-conscious, grappling with materialism, faith and Black identity in ways that resonated with young fans. Behavior that some considered attention-grabbing and self-aggrandizing -- claiming after Hurricane Katrina that then-President George W. Bush didn't care about Black people; disrupting music industry awards -- cast him as something of a counterculture hero.
He "is not just a lightning rod, he's this incredible force of nature who has colored an entire generation," said Bobby Kim, author and co-founder of The Hundreds, a men's streetwear brand.
But Mr. West had struggled to break into fashion, despite his burning ambition to design.
He had interned with Fendi, and briefly collaborated with A.P.C. on apparel and with Louis Vuitton on a line of shoes. He had also worked with Nike on two popular sneakers, the Air Yeezy 1 and 2. But Nike would not give him a cut of the sales or share creative control. The best he could hope for, he kept hearing, was putting his name on other people's products.
In a phone call in the summer of 2013, Mr. West told Jon Wexler, then Adidas's global director of entertainment and influencer marketing, that he was determined to become a genuine partner in designing shoes.
Mr. Wexler, who had lined up hip-hop acts in college and helped bring other musicians into the brand, was persuaded. So was Hermann Deininger, a top Adidas executive with a reputation for pushing boundaries. At their urging, Adidas took a big swing, offering the rapper a contract through 2017 with the most generous terms it had ever extended to a non-athlete.
It went far beyond typical celebrity licensing deals. Mr. West, then 36, would become a co-creator of shoe and clothing lines, collecting a 15 percent royalty on net sales with at least $ 3 million a year guaranteed, according to a copy of the document reviewed by The Times.
"The world changes now!!!" he texted Mr. Wexler after signing the deal in November, a message that the Adidas manager later posted online.
Two weeks later in New York, the rapper told executives they would "redefine the limits of Adidas," according to meeting notes. He and his fiancée, Kim Kardashian, the queen of reality television and soon social media too, would serve as muses for apparel. And he would overhaul what he saw as Adidas's unsexy sneakers. His, he said, would have swagger.
Adidas employees quickly discovered that Mr. West was brimming with ideas. They also learned that he operated unlike anyone else they had encountered.
He could be enthusiastic to the point of creating chaos. Early on, he showed up unexpectedly at Adidas's New York office with Ms. Kardashian and tens of thousands of dollars' worth of sewing machines. It was so disruptive that he was sent to a studio across town. Once immersed in the design work, he so obsessed over every detail that it was hard to finish anything.
And he was quick to anger when frustrated. Running up against the deadline for the first Yeezy fashion show in February 2015, he lashed out, using sexually explicit language, at Rachel Muscat -- the rare female manager in a male-dominated industry -- and other Adidas employees. Some complained about the verbal abuse to Adidas higher-ups, according to several members of the team. (Like some other current and former employees of Adidas and of Mr. West interviewed for this article, they spoke only on the condition of anonymity because they are bound by nondisclosure agreements.)
Attention quickly shifted to the show, however, where the shoes drew raves. Performing that night, Mr. West, Travis Scott and other rappers wore the new Yeezys, a preview of the promotion the artist and the high-profile people around him could generate for Adidas.
Released in limited runs over the next few months, the shoes sold out in hours, crashing servers and sending prices soaring on resale sites. They hooked sneakerheads, fashionistas and even athletes who had endorsement deals with Adidas rivals.
First came a suede high-top, followed by the Yeezy Boost 350 -- a sleek sneaker inspired by Nike's Roshe Run and nicknamed "the Roshe killer" inside Adidas. It had a flat front, not the standard rolled toe that Mr. West disdained. It put a Yeezy spin on Adidas innovations: Boost foam, a new cushioning technology, in the sole, and a patterned knit fabric on top. The shoe wasn't suited for running or sports, but complemented the athleisure apparel that was coming into fashion.
"He challenges everything but he puts full energy into how he challenges it, and you see the results," Nic Galway, a top Adidas designer, said in a 2015 interview.
The 350 won top honors that year at the industry's annual awards ceremony, considered the "shoe Oscars."
Taking the stage with Mr. Wexler, Ms. Muscat and Arthur Hoeld, a top Adidas executive, Mr. West acknowledged that he could be a difficult partner. "It's cool to be up here with the three people that I've screamed at the most in the past year," he said, beaming.
His tone shifting, he later added, "Jon basically saved my life."
A Morals Clause
Eager to build on their success, Adidas and Mr. West were hammering out a new contract in 2016.
The company wanted to entice Mr. West into a long-term commitment. But it also wanted to better protect itself. Executives were insisting on a clause that would allow Adidas to end the deal over a range of behaviors that could threaten its reputation.
Representing Mr. West was Scooter Braun, a bulldog of a manager best known then for catapulting Justin Bieber to fame. During negotiations, Mr. Braun argued that only a criminal offense, like shooting someone, would be adequate cause for Adidas to walk away from his client, according to two people familiar with the discussions.
But the terms Adidas wanted were standard. They were also something of a catalog of risks Mr. West could pose to the partnership.
He had been criminally investigated for assault after altercations with a photographer and a man hurling epithets at Ms. Kardashian; he had paid civil settlements to both.
In February 2016, Taylor Swift, whom Mr. West had offended years earlier by jumping onstage to protest her winning an MTV award, accused him of misogyny for releasing a song with the lyrics: "I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex / Why? I made that bitch famous."
Days later, leaked audio revealed him erupting backstage at "Saturday Night Live" after a set design change, yelling that he was "50 percent more influential than any other human being." He also disclosed on Twitter that he was "53 million dollars in personal debt."
That debt had mounted as he spent with abandon, according to Pete Fox, chief executive of Mr. West's Yeezy operation at the time.
Adidas had stopped funding Yeezy apparel, so the artist was bankrolling it himself. He ran a handful of small companies for his creative projects and was paying a cast of high-priced consultants.
Ms. Kardashian, by then married to Mr. West, tried to impose restraints. "The message was: You need to stop wasting money like this. Things need to get under control," Mr. Fox recalled.
But the rapper had often proclaimed that he could never be controlled.
Mr. West continued to show pornography to Adidas employees, and chose porn actresses to appear in Yeezy promotional photos, according to several people who worked with him. They also said they had seen him drinking at work and noticed that he sometimes went days with little or no sleep.
In interviews years later, Mr. West would reveal addictions to alcohol and pornography. He had already acknowledged his deep depression after his mother's unexpected death in 2007.
During negotiations on the morals clause, an Adidas lawyer, along with Mr. Wexler and Jim Anfuso, the brand's general manager for Yeezy, refused to back down.
Their position was that Adidas's new chief executive, Kasper Rorsted -- a "margin magician," according to a German publication, for his record of boosting profits and slashing costs -- had to have clear-cut conditions for pulling the plug on the Yeezy deal.
Violations of morals clauses have led to the dissolution of other high-profile, if less lucrative, deals with celebrities: among them Paula Deen, the celebrity chef, because of racial slurs; Tiger Woods, over a sex scandal; and the boxer Manny Pacquiao, after homophobic comments.
Corporate leaders must serve their bottom line, but they also have to guard the business's reputation, noted Brad Jakeman, a former PepsiCo top executive who dealt with branding issues. Before his tenure, the company ended a long-running sponsorship deal with Michael Jackson when he canceled his world tour amid allegations of sexual abuse. If a partner's values don't align with the company's, Mr. Jakeman said, it inevitably becomes a problem, particularly if the issues are known or easily discoverable.
"Then you're left with: At best, the company was sloppy," he said. "At worst, it was complicit."
Mr. West eventually conceded on Adidas's terms for termination: felony conviction, bankruptcy, 30 consecutive days of mental health or substance abuse treatment, or anything that brings "disrepute, contempt, scandal" to him or tarnishes Adidas, according to a copy of the contract obtained by The Times.
The agreement was also loaded with financial incentives. The value of the deal would come to surpass that of his music assets, according to a Forbes assessment of his net worth.
During the negotiations, Adidas projected that net sales of Yeezys would grow from $ 65 million in 2016 to $ 1 billion by 2021; Mr. West would continue to get a 15 percent royalty, now with at least $ 10 million a year guaranteed.
The brand was gaining ground in the United States -- it would reach more than 11 percent of the market by the next spring. Adidas was offering Mr. West $ 15 million upfront, along with millions of dollars in company stock each year. The "biggest issue," an Adidas document noted, was "putting CASH in Kanye's pocket to show him we VALUE him and recognize his impact on the brand."
The company also intended to dedicate 20 employees to a Yeezy unit at its U.S. headquarters in Portland, Ore., up from just a handful. And while most celebrity branding agreements were short-term, this could extend for up to a decade if it met financial targets.
The partnership was now a marriage, as Mr. West put it. He signed the new contract in May 2016.
That fall, during his first tour in three years, his concerts took a turn.
He stunned a crowd in Sacramento with a 17-minute tirade, praising President-elect Donald J. Trump; condemning the media, tech and music industries; bad-mouthing Beyoncé; and insinuating that Jay-Z might send "killers" after him. He cut the show short and, soon after, canceled his remaining performances.
Harley Pasternak, his friend and former trainer, arrived at the musician's house in Los Angeles that week to find him consumed with paranoid thoughts, including that government agents were out to get him. He was writing Bible verses and drawing spaceships on bedsheets with a Sharpie, while a handful of worried friends and employees lingered nearby. When Mr. Pasternak encouraged him to come to a nearby office he owned, Mr. West emerged with suitcases packed with pots, pans and Tupperware.
Mr. Pasternak, who later provided an account of the incident in a deposition for Mr. West's touring company as it sought insurance payouts for the canceled shows, took him to the office. A psychiatrist from U.C.L.A. Medical Center and another doctor were among those called to the scene. After observing Mr. West's behavior escalate -- at one point he threw a bottle, breaking a window -- the doctor called 911.
"I think he's definitely going to need to be hospitalized," he told the operator on a recorded call.
'Not Signing Up to His Statements'
After more than a week in the hospital in 2016, Mr. West began taking medication to treat bipolar disorder and kept a low public profile. But by the spring of 2018, he was off the meds, insisting that they dulled his creativity. While over the years he has talked publicly about having bipolar disorder, even referring to it on an album cover, he has at other times claimed that he was misdiagnosed.
He declared his fervent support for Mr. Trump -- "We are both dragon energy," he tweeted -- and embraced the conservative commentator Candace Owens, who has attacked the Black Lives Matter movement and urged Black voters to leave the Democratic Party.
That May, he set off an uproar, saying in a TMZ interview that 400 years of slavery "sounds like a choice" by generations of Black people.
Mr. Wexler told colleagues he was urging Mr. West to apologize, worried that Yeezy customers were among those angered.
But Mr. Rorsted, Adidas's chief executive, batted the comment away. "Kanye has helped us have a great comeback in the U.S.," he said on CNBC. He reiterated that position months later, telling reporters, "We're not signing up to his statements; we're signing up to what he brings to the brand and the products he's bringing out."
After pushing for the morals clause in Mr. West's contract, it is not clear whether Adidas even considered invoking it.
The chief executive's response disturbed some Adidas employees, including in the Yeezy unit. Most were fans of Mr. West. Still, working with him took a toll. The Yeezy team adopted a strategy it likened to firefighting: rotating people on and off the front lines of dealing with the artist. Adidas also assigned a human resources official to the group, gave each new hire a subscription to a meditation app and gathered the staff regularly for something akin to group therapy.
Soon after the TMZ interview, those employees expressed their concerns to Eric Liedtke, Adidas's global brand manager and an executive board member, according to two people who attended the meeting. In an overwhelmingly white company, Yeezy was the rare racially diverse unit that reflected the customer base.
The team wanted to know: Did Adidas support Mr. West's comments about slavery? Were the company's European leaders blind to American race issues? What was the plan to make Adidas more inclusive?
Mr. Liedtke promised that Adidas would work to address its racial diversity issues.
But the company did not waver in its support of Mr. West -- not then, and not as he expressed a troubling fixation on Jews and Hitler.
Along with some other rappers who came up in the 1980s and '90s, Mr. West had been drawn to Louis Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam, and his commitment to Black empowerment. Some of those musicians also adopted the organization's antisemitic beliefs, such as the claim that Jews control the world.
Mr. West, in a 2005 lawsuit in which he successfully blocked a D.J. from distributing unreleased songs from the 1990s, suggested that the work might have contained anti-Jewish lyrics.
"My only concern with it would be to make sure that it's like no anti-Semitist -- is that the word?" he asked in a deposition. He implied that his views had changed, saying the songs had "gross lyrics that like might make me cringe now."
But years later, he continued to tell friends and associates, including several Adidas employees, that Jews had special powers allowing them to amass money and influence.
He was becoming closer to Mr. Farrakhan. When Mr. West had drawn criticism that he was perpetuating dangerous stereotypes in 2013 by saying "Black people don't have the same level of connections as Jewish people," the minister quickly came to his defense. The rapper went on to help him with a documentary about the Nation of Islam. His manager, Mr. Braun -- the grandson of Holocaust survivors -- told others in the industry that Mr. West made him attend a private dinner with the minister.
Mr. West also told some Adidas colleagues that he admired Hitler's command of propaganda, viewing him as a master marketer.
In 2018, he disclosed to Mr. Liedtke and another manager that he had paid a seven-figure settlement to the outgoing chief executive of his Yeezy operation, who had accused him of commending Hitler and creating a hostile workplace, according to someone familiar with the conversation.
And some of Mr. West's Adidas handlers knew that year that he was considering naming his next album "Hitler," according to several former Adidas employees. (It was ultimately titled "Ye.")
During the TMZ interview in which Mr. West made the slavery comment, he said it was important to love everyone, including Nazis. Before the interview aired, Mr. Braun phoned Harvey Levin, founder of the celebrity news website, to discuss the Nazi reference, according to someone with knowledge of the call. In the end, the remark was cut but was disclosed in 2022 by a former journalist from the site. TMZ declined to comment.
Though it's unclear whether anyone at Adidas knew back in 2018 about the Nazi remark, Mr. Wexler, who is Jewish, told colleagues about something similar then that had led him to yell at Mr. West: The artist told him to hang a photo of Hitler in his kitchen and kiss it every day to practice unconditional love.
The Yzy Hotline
In 2018, a group of Adidas executives and managers started a text message chain, called the "Yzy hotline," to address problems in the collaboration. It was an ongoing effort to help Mr. West, contain him, or somehow do both.
"He doesn't understand how his money works and he only trusts adidas," one manager texted colleagues after a call with the musician in early 2019. The group agreed that it would advise him on his finances, and take control of his Yeezy payroll and his mismanaged Yeezy website, which eventually had to pay nearly $ 1 million for delayed shoe shipments to consumers.
Other messages registered a sense of alarm -- not over Mr. West's offensive public statements or behavior, which seemed not to have deterred shoe sales, but over his shifting, outsize expectations and his vehemence in their private dealings.
"Kasper just spoke with him," Mr. Liedtke wrote after a call between the chief executive and Mr. West in 2019. "Started out slowly, but built into a full-blown rant."
The year before, Mr. West had moved his Yeezy operation to Chicago, promising to create jobs there. When Mr. Rorsted and Mr. Liedtke visited that October, he raised new demands, according to several people familiar with the meeting, including a seat on the company's supervisory board, the role of Adidas creative director and maybe even chief executive.
A week later, Mr. Rorsted and Mr. Liedtke described some of the proposals to Adidas's executive board, a session first reported by The Wall Street Journal. They focused on two of Mr. West's suggestions: spinning off Yeezy into a separate company or buying him out of his contract. The board also considered a third option: keeping the partnership as planned, according to company documents.
Mr. Anfuso, general manager of the Yeezy unit, told the executives that he favored paying Mr. West to make a clean break. He feared Adidas was becoming dangerously dependent on an increasingly unmanageable partnership, he told other colleagues.
In the end, the board decided Adidas would continue pursuing projects to help reduce its reliance on Yeezys, including a collaboration with Beyoncé. And it would provide the Yeezy unit with more support. But it was not prepared to alter the partnership. Weeks earlier, confident in the growing demand, Adidas had cranked up production, releasing an estimated one million pairs of all-white 350 V2s, the biggest Yeezy "drop" ever.
It is not clear if misgivings about the alliance ever reached the ultimate decision makers, Adidas's supervisory board. A company spokeswoman declined to answer questions about that board's proceedings. But its publicly released annual reports reflect no discussion of problems in the Yeezy partnership until 2022.
Mr. Rorsted, the chief executive until late last year; his successor; and the chairman of the supervisory board declined to be interviewed or to comment for this article, as did several other current and former executives in leadership roles, including Mr. Liedtke and Mr. Hoeld.
In 2019, Mr. West abruptly moved his Yeezy operation again, this time to remote Cody, Wyo., and demanded that the Adidas team relocate.
"We are in a code red," Mr. Anfuso wrote to the Yzy hotline in October 2019, adding three flashing-siren emojis. "The first line is completely exhausted and don't feel supported or comfortable with how this is progressing."
Mr. West, who had started describing himself as a born-again Christian, was channeling his musical ambitions into Sunday Service performances with a choir and infusing religious language into his other work. He used "terms like 'believer' and 'pilgrimage"' to describe those who would follow him to Cody, Mr. Wexler messaged the Yzy hotline. "Everyone has to believe he is the greatest artist of all time."
Mr. West had already listed more requirements -- a $ 1 billion advance, a 15 percent profit split of "whatever KW touches," introductions to the heads of factories. Then he became infuriated when he couldn't speak immediately with Mr. Rorsted. "I am no longer 'asking' for things that are owed and that I am in charge of," he wrote to Adidas executives. "This relationship dynamic changes now."
Weeks later, in November 2019, the chief executive, along with Mr. Liedtke, Mr. Wexler and other Adidas officials, hosted him in Portland, eager to work things out.
When Mr. West arrived at the office, he appeared to notice only the shoes lining the floor, awaiting his approval. He began lobbing sneakers around the room. Then he stomped out.
Still, the top executives were committed. They would help him build up a Yeezy campus in Cody and introduce him to factory owners. Most significant, the company would provide Mr. West with additional money each year.
Mr. West, who objected to advertising and other traditional promotion, had insisted that Adidas's money was better spent on anything that drew public attention to him. So the executives had agreed to replace the Yeezy marketing budget with a $ 100 million annual fund that Mr. West could spend with less oversight.
'Adidas Can't Drop Me'
Last September, Mr. West arrived at Adidas's Los Angeles office to meet with company executives, a videographer in tow.
Yeezy sales were on track to reach $ 1.8 billion in 2022, according to Adidas projections. Mr. West's grievances had also multiplied.
Under their contract, Adidas owned the designs they had created together -- including more than 250 Yeezys ranging from boots to sneakers to Foam Runner slip-ons. But as the company released shoes closely resembling Yeezys under other names, Mr. West cried theft and demanded a cut of sales.
By then, some of his closest contacts at Adidas -- Mr. Wexler, Mr. Anfuso and Mr. Liedtke -- had left, and he appeared to have lost faith in those who remained.
So he went to war: railing on social media about the chief executive and the supervisory board, and persuading high-profile friends, like Diddy and Swizz Beatz, to threaten a boycott. Then, to emphasize his sense of betrayal, he ambushed executives at the Los Angeles office with a pornographic film about a woman wronged by her cheating boyfriend.
"Our army is so prepared," Mr. West warned them. "This is a different level of nuclear activity that no one will recover from."
Footage of the encounter was released online weeks later. By then, Mr. West's behavior had escalated.
At the Yeezy fashion show in Paris in October, he posed with Ms. Owens, the commentator, in shirts that said "White Lives Matter" -- a slogan associated with white supremacists. After she posted a photo online, fueling outrage, he berated critics who accused him of being racially insensitive, then engaged in hostile interviews and social media posts. He called Black Lives Matter a scam. He announced he would go "death con 3 on JEWISH PEOPLE."
During an interview on the "Drink Champs" podcast, he spread conspiracy theories about Jews controlling the levers of power and insisted that the police hadn't killed George Floyd. Then he taunted: "I can say antisemitic things and Adidas can't drop me. Now what?"
Politicians, Hollywood corporate heads, fellow entertainers and Jewish leaders condemned the comments, saying his behavior emboldened others to embrace bigotry. Ms. Kardashian, whose divorce from Mr. West would soon be final, also spoke out.
On Oct. 25, nine days after Mr. West declared that Adidas wouldn't end his deal, the company did just that.
"Ye's recent comments and actions have been unacceptable, hateful and dangerous," an Adidas statement said, "and they violate the company's values of diversity and inclusion, mutual respect and fairness.
Even then, Mr. West was unrepentant; in the following months, he went on to explicitly state his fondness for Hitler, deny the Holocaust and tweet an image combining the Star of David with a swastika. At the time, he also talked about a new presidential run, hiring Nick Fuentes, a white nationalist, for a brief stint and the far-right provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos, who now describes himself as head of government and public affairs for Mr. West's Yeezy operation.
And, behind the scenes, the artist fought back against Adidas.
As they began arbitration, a requirement under their contract, Adidas accused him of reducing a multibillion-dollar collaboration to "economic rubble" with his offensive comments. Mr. West charged that Adidas had devalued Yeezys, saying that the company's "greed and opportunism have no bounds," according to court records. Adidas would not comment on the arbitration, citing confidentiality.
The loss of Yeezy revenue came as Adidas's performance was declining, partly from the pandemic but also because it had overestimated the demand for other sneakers and the promise of other collaborations. The supervisory board had announced in August 2022 that it would terminate Mr. Rorsted's contract early.
The break from Mr. West had other consequences: In a class-action lawsuit filed in April, shareholders accused Adidas executives of failing to disclose the risk a toxic partner posed to the company. And in an internal letter earlier reported by Rolling Stone, some employees charged that the leadership had known about Mr. West's "problematic behavior," and "turned their moral compass off."
In a statement to The Times, Adidas denied the claims in the lawsuit and pledged to fight it. The company said that an internal investigation had not substantiated the most serious complaints in the employees' letter, including antisemitic remarks, discrimination and harassment, and the display of pornographic materials (aside from the incident captured in the 2022 video).
Even as they squared off in arbitration, Adidas and Mr. West came to an agreement that served their common interest. Starting in May, Adidas began releasing the remaining inventory of Yeezys. A portion of the proceeds would go to the Anti-Defamation League, another group battling antisemitism and an organization started by George Floyd's family.
But most of the revenue would go to Adidas, and Mr. West was entitled to royalties.
The shoes took in about $ 437 million in sales through June, according to the most recent figures available. Crediting the recent Yeezy drops, along with its other products, Adidas has significantly improved its forecast for the year, revising an earlier projected operating loss of more than $ 700 million to about $ 100 million.
The success of the Yeezy releases showed that some customers may no longer closely associate the star with the brand they love, and many do not care about his behavior, said Matt Powell, a sports retailer consultant. "You still have a real loyal Yeezy fan club out there."
In a podcast interview last month, Adidas's chief executive, Bjorn Gulden, praised Mr. West's creativity and lamented how the partnership -- "one of the most successful collabs in history" -- ended.
"Very unfortunate," Mr. Gulden said, "because I don't think he meant what he said."
Days later, Jonathan Greenblatt, the head of the Anti-Defamation League, posted online that Mr. Gulden had apologized for those remarks. "Our decision to end our partnership with Ye because of his unacceptable comments and behavior was the right one," Adidas said in a statement. "Our stance has not changed."
Methodology
The grid at the top of this article includes most Adidas Yeezy releases between February 2015 and August 2023. This was assembled by gathering the unique style numbers of the shoes and their respective release dates from StockX, a sneaker reseller. Some releases are omitted: rereleases (e.g. the March 2022 and August 2023 reissues of the Yeezy Boost 700 Wave Runner); kids' and infants' sizes; and "friends and family" releases that were not available to the general public (e.g. the Yeezy 500 "Shadow Black"). Pairs that appear to be duplicates are variants of the same shoe with different style numbers (e.g. the Yeezy Boost 380 Onyx and Yeezy Boost 380 Onyx Reflective).
Joe Coscarelli contributed reporting, and Julie Tate contributed research. Produced by Rumsey Taylor. Photo editing by Stephen Reiss.
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
The grid at the top of this article includes most Adidas Yeezy releases between February 2015 and August 2023. This was assembled by gathering the unique style numbers of the shoes and their respective release dates from StockX, a sneaker reseller. Some releases are omitted: rereleases (e.g. the March 2022 and August 2023 reissues of the Yeezy Boost 700 Wave Runner); kids' and infants' sizes; and "friends and family" releases that were not available to the general public (e.g. the Yeezy 500 "Shadow Black"). Pairs that appear to be duplicates are variants of the same shoe with different style numbers (e.g. the Yeezy Boost 380 Onyx and Yeezy Boost 380 Onyx Reflective). Joe Coscarelli contributed reporting, and Julie Tate contributed research. Produced by Rumsey Taylor. Photo editing by Stephen Reiss. Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Adidas tolerated Kanye West's conduct as a cost of business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY LANDIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1); Mr. West accepting the Shoe of the Year prize for the Yeezy Boost 350 at the 2015 Footwear News Achievement Awards, known as the shoe Oscars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK MacLEOD/WWD/PENSKE MEDIA, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A18); As Adidas C.E.O., Kasper Rorsted waved off offensive statements by Mr. West, focusing on their shared success.; Eric Liedtke was an Adidas executive board member and one of the senior leaders involved in the Yeezy collaboration.; Jon Wexler, the global director of entertainment and influencer marketing in 2013, urged Adidas to sign Mr. West.; Scooter Braun, Mr. West's manager, pushed back on the terms of a morals clause that Adidas sought in the contract. (A19); An engaged crowd of eager sneaker consumers assembled at a store in Barcelona for the 2019 release of Adidas's limited edition Yeezy Boost 350 model. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PACO FREIRE/SOPA IMAGES/LIGHTROCKET VIA GETTY IMAGES) A20) This article appeared in print on page A1, A18, A19, A20.

Subject: Nazi era; Collaboration; Athletic shoes; Celebrities; Employees; Shoes & boots; Comebacks; Endorsements

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Jay-Z (rapper); West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: National Socialist German Workers Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/27/business/kanye-west-adidas-yeezy.html

Title: Money, Misconduct and the Price of Appeasement:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 29, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883190452

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/money-misconduct-price-appeasement/docview/2883190452/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kanye and Adidas: Money, Misconduct and the Price of Appeasement

Author: Twohey, Megan

Publication info: Twohey, Megan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-adidas-money-misconduct-price-appeasement/docview/2882988727/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The Adidas team was huddled with Kanye West, pitching ideas for the first shoe they would create together. It was 2013, and the rapper and the sportswear brand had just agreed to become partners. The Adidas employees, thrilled to get started, had arrayed sneakers and fabric swatches on a long table near a mood board pinned with images.
But nothing they showed that day at the company’s German headquarters captured the vision West had shared. To convey how offensive he considered the designs, he grabbed a sketch of a shoe and took a marker to the toe, according to two participants. Then he drew a swastika.
It was shocking, especially to the Germans in the group. Most displays of the symbol are banned in their country. The image was acutely sensitive for a company whose founder belonged to the Nazi Party. And they were meeting just miles from Nuremberg, where leaders of the Third Reich were tried for crimes against humanity.
That encounter was a sign of what was to come during a collaboration that would break the boundaries of celebrity endorsement deals. Sales of the shoes, Yeezys, would surpass $1 billion a year, lifting Adidas’ bottom line and recapturing its cool. West, who now goes by Ye, would become a billionaire.
When the company ended the relationship last October, it appeared to be the culmination of weeks of West’s inflammatory public remarks — targeting Jews and disparaging Black Lives Matter — and outside pressure on the brand to cut ties. But it was also the culmination of a decade of Adidas’ tolerance behind the scenes.
Inside their partnership, the artist made antisemitic and sexually offensive comments, displayed erratic behavior and issued ever-escalating demands, a New York Times examination found. Adidas’ leaders, eager for the profits, time and again abided his misconduct.
While some other brands have been quick to end deals over offensive or embarrassing behavior, Adidas held on for years.
This article is the fullest accounting yet of their relationship. The Times interviewed current and former employees of Adidas and of West and obtained hundreds of previously undisclosed internal records — contracts, text messages, memos and financial documents — that reveal episodes throughout a partnership that was fraught from the start.
Just weeks before the 2013 swastika incident, the Times found, West made Adidas executives watch pornography during a meeting at his Manhattan apartment, ostensibly to spark creativity. In February 2015, preparing to show the first Yeezy collection at New York Fashion Week, staff members complained that he had upset them with angry, sexually crude comments.
He later advised a Jewish Adidas manager to kiss a picture of Adolf Hitler every day, and he told a member of the company’s executive board that he had paid a seven-figure settlement to one of his own senior employees who accused him of repeatedly praising the architect of the Holocaust.
Again and again, West contended that Adidas was exploiting him. “I feel super disrespected in this ‘partnership,’” he said in one text message. He routinely sought more money and power, even suggesting that he should become Adidas’ CEO.
His complaints were often delivered amid mood swings, creating whiplash for the Adidas team working with him. Diagnosed with bipolar disorder, he at times rejected the assessment and resisted treatment.
As Adidas grew more reliant on Yeezy sales, so did West. In addition to royalties and upfront cash, the company eventually agreed to another enticement: $100 million annually, officially for Yeezy marketing but, in practice, a fund that he could spend with little oversight.
In a statement to the Times, Adidas said it “has no tolerance for hate speech and offensive behavior, which is why the company terminated the Adidas Yeezy partnership.” The brand turned down interview requests and, citing confidentiality rules, declined to comment on financial aspects of the collaboration and Adidas’ relationship with West.
West declined interview requests and did not respond to written questions or provide comments.
After the relationship ruptured and Yeezy sales came to a halt, both Adidas and the musician were hit hard. The company projected its first annual loss in decades. West’s net worth plummeted.
But they had at least one more chance to keep making money together.
The company announced in May that it would begin releasing the remaining $1.3 billion worth of Yeezys from warehouses around the world.
An Unpredictable Partner
The Yeezy debut at New York Fashion Week in 2015 was a display of star power. The front row was packed with Jay-Z, Beyoncé, Rihanna and a cluster of Kardashians. The event streamed in movie theaters around the world.
It was exactly what West — and Adidas — had wanted.
The company’s roots stretch back nearly a century, when Adi Dassler began making athletic shoes in the laundry room of his family’s Bavarian home. Like many business owners of his era, Dassler joined the Nazi Party. After World War II, he founded Adidas, which went on to capture much of the soccer-based market in Europe and made inroads in America as hip-hop stars helped popularize the brand.
But everything changed after Nike signed an endorsement deal in 1984 with an up-and-coming basketball player named Michael Jordan. That partnership would help turn sneakers into cultural currency around the world. And Nike, making billions of dollars a year from Air Jordans, became No. 1.
By 2013, Adidas had just 8% of the U.S. athletic footwear market, compared with Nike’s nearly 50%, according to industry data, and it was losing hope of catching up.
West was also feeling stalled.
Raised in Chicago by his mother, an English professor, he achieved early success producing music for Jay-Z and other artists before becoming a rap star. His 2004 debut album, “The College Dropout,” was considered game changing for hip-hop, for its cutting-edge production and for West’s middle-class viewpoint and preppy-meets-street style. But West had struggled to break into fashion, despite his burning ambition to design.
In a phone call in the summer of 2013, West told Jon Wexler, then Adidas’ global director of entertainment and influencer marketing, that he was determined to become a partner in designing shoes.
Adidas took a big swing, offering the rapper a contract through 2017 with the most generous terms it had ever extended to a nonathlete. It went far beyond typical celebrity licensing deals. West, then 36, would become a co-creator of shoe and clothing lines, collecting a 15% royalty on net sales with at least $3 million a year guaranteed.
Adidas employees quickly discovered that West was brimming with ideas. They also learned that he operated unlike anyone else they had encountered.
He could be enthusiastic to the point of creating chaos. Early on, he showed up unexpectedly at Adidas’ New York office with his fiancee, Kim Kardashian, the queen of reality television and soon social media too, and tens of thousands of dollars’ worth of sewing machines. It was so disruptive that he was sent to a studio across town. Once immersed in the design work, he so obsessed over every detail that it was hard to finish anything.
And he was quick to anger when frustrated. Running up against the deadline for the first Yeezy fashion show in February 2015, he lashed out, using sexually explicit language, at Rachel Muscat — the rare female manager in a male-dominated industry — and other Adidas employees. Some complained about the verbal abuse to Adidas higher-ups, according to several members of the team, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because they are bound by nondisclosure agreements.
Attention quickly shifted to the show, however, where the shoes drew raves. Released in limited runs over the next few months, the shoes sold out in hours, crashing servers and sending prices soaring on resale sites.
First came a suede high-top, followed by the Yeezy Boost 350. The 350 won top honors that year at the industry’s annual awards ceremony, considered the “shoe Oscars.”
A Morals Clause
Eager to build on their success, Adidas and West were hammering out a new contract in 2016.
The company wanted to entice West into a long-term commitment. But it also wanted to better protect itself. Executives were insisting on a clause that would allow Adidas to end the deal over a range of behaviors that could threaten its reputation.
Representing West was Scooter Braun, a bulldog of a manager best known then for catapulting Justin Bieber to fame. During negotiations, Braun argued that only a criminal offense, like shooting someone, would be adequate cause for Adidas to walk away from his client.
But the terms Adidas wanted were standard.
West continued to show pornography to Adidas employees. They also said they had seen him drinking at work.
In interviews years later, West would reveal addictions to alcohol and pornography. He had already acknowledged his deep depression after his mother’s unexpected death in 2007.
During negotiations on the morals clause, an Adidas lawyer, along with Wexler and Jim Anfuso, the brand’s general manager for Yeezy, refused to back down. Their position was that Adidas’ new CEO, Kasper Rorsted had to have clear-cut conditions for pulling the plug on the Yeezy deal.
West eventually conceded on Adidas’ terms for termination: felony conviction; bankruptcy; 30 consecutive days of mental health or substance abuse treatment; or anything that brings “disrepute, contempt, scandal” to him or tarnishes Adidas, according to a copy of the contract obtained by the Times.
The agreement was also loaded with financial incentives. The value of the deal would come to surpass that of his music assets, according to a Forbes assessment of his net worth.
During the negotiations, Adidas projected that net sales of Yeezys would grow from $65 million in 2016 to $1 billion by 2021; West would continue to get a 15% royalty, now with at least $10 million a year guaranteed.
The brand was gaining ground in the United States; it would reach more than 11% of the market by the next spring. Adidas was offering West $15 million upfront, along with millions of dollars in company stock each year. The company also intended to dedicate 20 employees to a Yeezy unit at its U.S. headquarters in Portland, Oregon, up from just a handful. And while most celebrity branding agreements were short-term, this could extend for up to a decade if it met financial targets.
West signed the new contract in May 2016.
That fall, during his first tour in three years, his concerts took a turn.
He stunned a crowd in Sacramento, California, with a 17-minute tirade, praising President-elect Donald Trump; condemning the media, tech and music industries; bad-mouthing Beyoncé; and insinuating that Jay-Z might send “killers” after him. He cut the show short and, soon after, canceled his remaining performances.
Harley Pasternak, his friend and former trainer, arrived at the musician’s house in Los Angeles that week to find him consumed with paranoid thoughts, including that government agents were out to get him. He was writing Bible verses and drawing spaceships on bedsheets with a Sharpie while a handful of worried friends and employees lingered nearby. When Pasternak encouraged him to come to a nearby office he owned, West emerged with suitcases packed with pots, pans and Tupperware.
Pasternak, who later provided an account of the incident in a deposition for West’s touring company as it sought insurance payouts for the canceled shows, took him to the office. A psychiatrist from UCLA Medical Center and another doctor were among those called to the scene. After observing West’s behavior escalate — at one point, he threw a bottle, breaking a window — the doctor called 911.
“I think he’s definitely going to need to be hospitalized,” he told the operator on a recorded call.
After more than a week in the hospital in 2016, West began taking medication to treat bipolar disorder and kept a low public profile. But by the spring of 2018, he was off the meds, insisting that they dulled his creativity. While over the years, he has talked publicly about having bipolar disorder, he has at other times claimed that he was misdiagnosed.
That May, he set off an uproar, saying in a TMZ interview that 400 years of slavery “sounds like a choice” by generations of Black people.
Wexler told colleagues he was urging West to apologize. But Rorsted, Adidas’ CEO, batted the comment away. After pushing for the morals clause in West’s contract, it is not clear whether Adidas even considered invoking it.
The CEO’s response disturbed some Adidas employees, including in the Yeezy unit. Soon after the TMZ interview, those employees expressed their concerns to Eric Liedtke, Adidas’ global brand manager and an executive board member. In an overwhelmingly white company, Yeezy was the rare racially diverse unit that reflected the customer base. The team wanted to know: Did Adidas support West’s comments about slavery? Were the company’s European leaders blind to American race issues?
Liedtke promised that Adidas would work to address its racial diversity issues. But the company did not waver in its support of West — not then, and not as he expressed a troubling fixation on Jews and Hitler.
In 2018, West moved his Yeezy operation to Chicago, promising to create jobs there. When Rorsted and Liedtke visited that October, he raised new demands, including a seat on the company’s supervisory board, the role of Adidas creative director and maybe even CEO.
A week later, Rorsted and Liedtke described some of the proposals to Adidas’ executive board. They focused on two of West’s suggestions: spinning off Yeezy into a separate company or buying him out of his contract. The board also considered a third option: keeping the partnership as planned, according to company documents.
Anfuso, general manager of the Yeezy unit, told the executives that he favored paying West to make a clean break. He feared Adidas was becoming dangerously dependent on an increasingly unmanageable partnership, he told other colleagues.
In the end, the board decided Adidas would continue pursuing projects to help reduce its reliance on Yeezys. But it was not prepared to alter the partnership.
It is not clear if misgivings about the alliance ever reached the ultimate decision-makers: Adidas’ supervisory board. A company spokesperson declined to answer questions about that board’s proceedings. But its publicly released annual reports reflect no discussion of problems in the Yeezy partnership until 2022.
Rorsted, the CEO until late last year; his successor; and the chair of the supervisory board declined to be interviewed or to comment for this article, as did several other current and former executives in leadership roles, including Liedtke.
In 2019, West abruptly moved his Yeezy operation again, this time to remote Cody, Wyoming, and demanded that the Adidas team relocate. West, who had started describing himself as a born-again Christian, used “terms like ‘believer’ and ‘pilgrimage’” to describe those who would follow him to Cody.
West had already listed more requirements: a $1 billion advance, a 15% profit split of “whatever KW touches,” introductions to the heads of factories. Then he became infuriated when he couldn’t speak immediately with Rorsted.
Weeks later, in November 2019, the CEO, along with Liedtke, Wexler and other Adidas officials, hosted him in Portland, eager to work things out.
When West arrived at the office, he appeared to notice only the shoes lining the floor, awaiting his approval. He began lobbing sneakers around the room. Then he stomped out.
Still, the top executives were committed. They would help him build up a Yeezy campus in Cody and introduce him to factory owners. Most significant, the company would provide West with additional money each year.
West, who objected to advertising and other traditional promotion, had insisted that Adidas’ money was better spent on anything that drew public attention to him. So the executives had agreed to replace the Yeezy marketing budget with a $100 million annual fund that West could spend with less oversight.
‘Adidas Can’t Drop Me’
Last September, West arrived at Adidas’ Los Angeles office to meet with company executives.
Yeezy sales were on track to reach $1.8 billion in 2022, according to Adidas projections. West’s grievances had also multiplied.
Under their contract, Adidas owned the designs they had created together — including more than 250 Yeezys. But as the company released shoes closely resembling Yeezys under other names, West cried theft and demanded a cut of sales.
By then, some of his closest contacts at Adidas — Wexler, Anfuso and Liedtke — had left, and he appeared to have lost faith in those who remained.
So he went to war: railing on social media about the CEO and the supervisory board and persuading high-profile friends, like Diddy and Swizz Beatz, to threaten a boycott.
At the Yeezy fashion show in Paris in October, he posed with conservative commentator Candace Owens, who has attacked the Black Lives Matter movement and urged Black voters to leave the Democratic Party, in shirts that said “White Lives Matter” — a slogan associated with white supremacists. After she posted a photo online, fueling outrage, he berated critics who accused him of being racially insensitive, then engaged in hostile interviews and social media posts. He called Black Lives Matter a scam. He announced he would go “death con 3 on JEWISH PEOPLE.”
During an interview on the “Drink Champs” podcast, he spread conspiracy theories about Jews controlling the levers of power and insisted that the police hadn’t killed George Floyd. Then he taunted, “I can say antisemitic things, and Adidas can’t drop me. Now what?”
Politicians, Hollywood corporate heads, fellow entertainers and Jewish leaders condemned the comments, saying his behavior emboldened others to embrace bigotry. Kardashian, whose divorce from West would soon be final, also spoke out.
On Oct. 25, nine days after West declared that Adidas wouldn’t end his deal, the company did just that.
“Ye’s recent comments and actions have been unacceptable, hateful and dangerous,” an Adidas statement said, “and they violate the company’s values of diversity and inclusion, mutual respect and fairness.
Even then, West was unrepentant; in the following months, he went on to explicitly state his fondness for Hitler, deny the Holocaust and tweet an image combining the Star of David with a swastika.
And behind the scenes, the artist fought back against Adidas.
As they began arbitration, a requirement under their contract, Adidas accused him of reducing a multibillion-dollar collaboration to “economic rubble” with his offensive comments. West charged that Adidas had devalued Yeezys, saying that the company’s “greed and opportunism have no bounds.” Adidas would not comment on the arbitration, citing confidentiality.
Even as they squared off in arbitration, Adidas and West came to an agreement that served their common interest. Starting in May, Adidas began releasing the remaining inventory of Yeezys. A portion of the proceeds would go to the Anti-Defamation League, another group battling antisemitism and an organization started by Floyd’s family.
But most of the revenue would go to Adidas, and West was entitled to royalties.
The shoes took in about $437 million in sales through June. Crediting the recent Yeezy drops, along with its other products, Adidas has significantly improved its forecast for the year, revising an earlier projected operating loss of more than $700 million to about $100 million.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rap music; Collaboration; Athletic shoes; Fashion shows; Awards & honors; Celebrities; Employees; Pornography & obscenity; Design; Nazi era

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

Location: New York; United States--US

People: West, Kanye; Jay-Z (rapper)

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: National Socialist German Workers Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

Identifier / keyword: Movies; Forbes Magazine; Nike Inc; New York Times; Alcohol Abuse; Wyoming; Orderliness And Clutter; Restaurants; Celebrities; Mental Health And Disorders; Bavaria (Germany); Small Business; Oregon; World War Ii (1939 45); United States; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Tupperware Brands Corporation; Company Reports; Ethics (Personal); New York Fashion Week; Conservatism (Us Politics); Cody (Wyo); Reality Television; Bieber, Justin; Relocation Of Business; University Of California, Los Angeles; California; Hygiene And Cleanliness; Rap And Hip Hop; TmzCom; Religion And Belief; Culture (Arts); Europe; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Germany; Social Media; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Online Advertising; Braun, Scooter (1981 ); Holocaust And The Nazi Era; Presidential Election Of 2024; Rihanna; Emergency Telephone Numbers; Royalties; Boycotts; West, Kanye; Discrimination; Depression (Mental); Black Lives Matter Movement; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Conspiracy Theories; Music; University Of California; Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Advertising And Marketing; Senses And Sensation; Black People; News And News Media; Paris (France); Dean, Kasseem (Swizz Beatz); Jordan, Michael; Nine One One (911) (Emergency Phone Number); Frauds And Swindling; Jay Z; Amnesties, Commutations And Pardons; Workplace Environment; Christians And Christianity; Sneakers; Text Messaging; Factories And Manufacturing; Arbitration, Conciliation And Mediation; Corporate Social Responsibility; Basketball; Portland (Ore); Symbols; Pornography; Newspapers; Owens, Candace; Real Estate (Commercial); Executive Compensation; Pop And Rock Music; Labor And Jobs; Combs, Sean; Anti Defamation League; Anti Semitism; Seasons And Months; Twohey, Megan; Speeches And Statements; Trump, Donald J; Government Contracts And Procurement; Jews And Judaism; Autumn (Season); Shoes And Boots; Compensation For Damages (Law); Anger (Emotion); Sacramento (Calif); Names, Organizational; Running; Creativity; Business; Addiction (Psychology); Colleges And Universities; Chicago (Ill); Manhattan (Nyc); Sporting Goods And Equipment; Yeezy (Fashion Label); Adidas Ag; Hitler, Adolf; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Kanye and Adidas: Money, Misconduct and the Price of Appeasement

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 28, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-28T15:33:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2882988727

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-adidas-money-misconduct-price-appeasement/docview/2882988727/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Pink Jersey as Elusive as the Name on the Back: [National Desk]

Author: Draper, Kevin; Smith, Rory

Publication info: Draper, Kevin; Smith, Rory. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pink-jersey-as-elusive-name-on-back/docview/2880614427/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the span of three months, the soccer superstar has made Inter Miami's eye-catching jersey the hottest piece of sports merchandise on the planet.
All of a sudden, after a single summer, the pink jersey is everywhere. It has become almost impossible to acquire, yet there it is, paradoxically, on the backs of thousands of fans thronging American stadiums, hanging from market stalls in Buenos Aires and Bangkok, a vivid flash on almost every field where children gather to play soccer in England.
That the jersey has become, apparently overnight, the hottest piece of sports merchandise on the planet is a simple, capitalist equation: the result of an irresistible combination of one of the most recognizable and beloved athletes of his generation; a distinctive, exotic color; and the ruthless efficiency of textile factories in Southeast Asia.
Somehow, though, few people saw it coming. Tor Southard was better placed than most, but even he was caught unaware. As Adidas's senior director for soccer in North America, he had been receiving emails from colleagues for nearly a year asking if the company's biggest star, Lionel Messi, would be joining Inter Miami, also a client of Adidas.
As far as he knew, it was just a rumor. Like the rest of the planet, Southard learned it was true only on June 7, the day Messi announced his intentions in a rare interview with two Spanish news outlets.
For many, the immediate question was the soccer one. Six months after winning the World Cup with Argentina, why was Messi, the finest player of his generation and arguably the best of all time, leaving the elite clubs and competitions of Europe to join a team that ranked among the worst in the comparative backwater of America's top league, Major League Soccer?
For Southard, and for Adidas, there was a rather more pressing matter. Within a couple of days of Messi's announcement, the company had received almost 500,000 requests from stores and suppliers for jerseys in Miami's soft, electric pink. It is a specific fabric and a specific shade: Pantone 1895C. "It's not like it was white, and we had inventory we could repurpose," Southard said.
Even if they could not foresee quite what a phenomenon the jersey would become, and quite how many people would clamor to get their hands on one, Southard and his colleagues had some sense of what was about to happen.
Adidas was going to need more of that fabric. A lot more.
'No. 1 priority' On the day Messi announced he would sign for Inter Miami, Adidas had a stock of Inter Miami jerseys in stores and storage facilities around the United States. It did not last. The shirts sold out so quickly that Southard said it seemed the inventory simply "evaporated."
Getting the fabric to make more -- and fast -- was just the first step. Although Adidas would not start selling official Messi jerseys until his contract was formally signed on July 15, it placed orders for vast rolls of the pink fabric needed to make them within 24 hours of his interview on Spanish television in the first week of June.
The risk, of course, was that the deal could still collapse. "It's a trade-off you make for speed," Southard said.
In ordinary circumstances, retailers order jerseys as many as nine months in advance. Major sportswear brands, like Adidas and Nike, generally prefer to produce large batches of team gear, rather than manufacturing to meet demand, as fast fashion chains tend to do.
Given the number of what the industry terms "chase buys" -- a sudden influx of orders in unanticipated volumes -- for Messi's Inter Miami jersey, Adidas knew its usual playbook would not work.
It had learned that from experience. In 2021, when Cristiano Ronaldo returned to Manchester United, one of the handful of retailers Adidas works with, Fanatics, asked for a million more jerseys. A year later, after Messi helped Argentina win the World Cup, Adidas had to produce and ship an extra 400,000 Argentine national team shirts in the span of three months.
Getting pink jerseys bearing Messi's name and No. 10 into the market, Southard said, immediately became Adidas's "No. 1 priority, globally."
To streamline the process, the company sourced the pink, recycled polyester fabric for the jerseys as close as possible to the factories in Southeast Asia that would make them. Orders for other details like logos and crests were expedited at other facilities, sometimes leapfrogging the production of apparel for other Adidas teams. To cut down on shipping times, the first batches of the Messi jerseys were sent out in small shipments, almost as soon as they came off the production line.
The frantic production effort worked. Initially, Adidas had told its retailers to begin selling jerseys with a promise of delivery by Oct. 15. But the first editions arrived in the United States by July 18. They were sent straight to Miami, where demand was highest.
They sold out almost instantly.
'Everyone has a hookup'
On a street corner in Miami's wealthy Brickell neighborhood one evening last month, two young men had set up a pop-up Messi store, their racks groaning with Inter Miami jerseys in pink and an alternate version -- black with pink trim -- that the team wears on the road. This was the work of the imaginatively titled Messi Miami Shop.
The name sounds official. The online store looks it, too. It sells two versions of the Messi jersey, as most sportswear manufacturers now do: a "player version" made with high-quality material and an athletic cut, and a "replica" designed for fans whose bodies might not have the precise dimensions of an elite athlete.
The Messi Miami Shop is not, though, affiliated in any way with Messi, Inter Miami or Adidas. (It is, though, a shop.) Its jerseys had come, instead, from a contact in Thailand, purchased for $ 10 apiece. "This is Miami," one of the sellers said. "Everyone has a hookup." And a markup: The stall was selling the jerseys at $ 25 for a children's edition and as much as $ 65 for an "authentic" inauthentic adult version of the team's black jersey.
The sellers, who declined to give their names for reasons that should be obvious, had sold around 30 in a couple of hours, they said. But they are not the only ones hustling.
A few nights earlier, outside Exploria Stadium in Orlando, Fla., a different group of hawkers were doing their own brisk business in Messi jerseys. Messi was not playing that night -- he missed several weeks of the season because of an injury -- but Inter Miami was in town, and plenty of fans were prepared to pay $ 40 for a pink jersey bearing his name, even if it had shoddy stitching and was plucked from a backpack.
Despite all of Adidas's attempts to get its official Messi jerseys into stores as quickly as possible, the clamor for them -- any version of them -- has proved so great that counterfeits have flooded the global market to meet the shortfall.
Though the company says it has now largely caught up with the backlog of orders, it has found that it is still selling jerseys far faster than it can produce them, and not just in the United States.
In Buenos Aires, where Messi's status as a national treasure was sealed by victory in the World Cup, there are pink jerseys for sale in store after store and kiosk after kiosk along Calle Florida, one of the Argentine capital's teeming shopping streets, and in the stalls of the bustling San Telmo Market. At some vendors, the fakes go for about $ 50.
In Europe, where tribal affiliations to local clubs run deep, Miami jerseys are suddenly commonplace. At a training session for elementary school children last month in Manchester, England, the usual concentration of Manchester United, Manchester City and Liverpool gear was flecked with a half dozen pink Inter Miami jerseys, each bearing Messi's name.
It is difficult to overstate the scale of demand. Official sales have surpassed every benchmark Adidas could have imagined, Southard said: more than the frenzy that accompanied David Beckham's move to the Los Angeles Galaxy in 2007; beyond the rush prompted by Ronaldo's return to Manchester United in 2021; beyond the clamor for Messi's Argentina shirt in the aftermath of Qatar 2022.
Inter Miami is now the best-selling Adidas soccer jersey in North America, ahead of all five of the storied European clubs that the brand traditionally regards as the crown jewels of its portfolio: Manchester United, Real Madrid, Juventus, Bayern Munich and Arsenal.
Since July, Fanatics, which dominates sports apparel in the United States, has sold more Messi jerseys than for any other soccer player, and any athlete at all except the Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts. No player, in any sport, has ever sold more jerseys on the site in the first 24 hours after switching teams than Messi did in July.
His cinematic arrival in M.L.S. -- with a late game-winning goal in his debut on July 22 -- came too late to salvage Inter Miami's season. The club will miss the playoffs, which start on Wednesday. Messi will not play in pink again until next year.
But that has done little to quell his impact. Inter Miami's games drew record crowds from the moment he arrived. The team's ticket prices for next season have soared. Adidas is confident that it has enough of the next edition of Messi's jersey -- due out in February -- in production to meet demand.
For many fans and retailers, it cannot come a moment too soon. The jersey has become so coveted, so scarce, that even Beckham himself -- one of the most famous soccer players of his generation, a worldwide celebrity and, as part-owner of Inter Miami, Messi's boss -- has found it hard to get hold of one.
More than once, he has wanted to send a pink Messi jersey to a friend or an associate as a gift, only to be told that he will have to wait, just like everyone else.
Alan Blinder and Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.
Alan Blinder and Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.
Sandlot soccer before Lionel Messi's Inter Miami played the Red Bulls in Harrison, N.J., in August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENA BETANCUR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1); Only days after Lionel Messi said he would join Inter Miami, stores and suppliers asked Adidas for nearly a half-million jerseys. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC HARTLINE/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS); Messi's Inter Miami jersey has become a global phenomenon. Above, a fan wore a replica to a World Cup qualifier between Bolivia and Argentina in La Paz, Bolivia, last month. Left, the jersey in Rio de Janeiro. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEONARDO FERNANDEZ/GETTY IMAGES; DADO GALDIERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Messi's Inter Miami kit at an Adidas store in Manhattan. Getting it to market became the company's "No. 1 priority, globally." (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Messi fans in Frisco, Texas, last month. Inventory of the jersey "evaporated," Adidas said, soon after Messi signed with Miami. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOGAN RIELY/GETTY IMAGES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Sport clothes; Tournaments & championships; Clothing; Manufacturing; Soccer; Inventory; Uniforms

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Inventory Uniforms

Location: Southeast Asia; United States--US; North America; United Kingdom--UK; England; Argentina; Europe

People: Messi, Lionel

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/23/business/lionel-messi-inter-miami-jersey.html

Title: A Pink Jersey as Elusive as the Name on the Back:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 24, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2880614427

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pink-jersey-as-elusive-name-on-back/docview/2880614427/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 24, 2023

Last updated: 2025-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Stratospheric Rise of Lionel Messi’s Pink Jersey

Author: Draper, Kevin; Smith, Rory

Publication info: Draper, Kevin; Smith, Rory. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stratospheric-rise-lionel-messi-s-pink-jersey/docview/2880576087/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MIAMI — All of a sudden, after a single summer, the pink jersey is everywhere. It has become almost impossible to acquire, yet there it is, paradoxically, on the backs of thousands of fans thronging American stadiums, hanging from market stalls in Bangkok and Buenos Aires, Argentina, a vivid flash on almost every field where children gather to play soccer in England.
That the jersey has become, apparently overnight, the hottest piece of sports merchandise on the planet is a simple, capitalist equation: the result of an irresistible combination of one of the most recognizable and beloved athletes of his generation; a distinctive, exotic color; and the ruthless efficiency of textile factories in Southeast Asia.
Somehow, though, few people saw it coming. Tor Southard was better placed than most, but even he was caught unaware. As Adidas’ senior director for soccer in North America, he had been receiving emails from colleagues for nearly a year asking if the company’s biggest star, Lionel Messi, would be joining Inter Miami, also a client of Adidas.
As far as he knew, it was just a rumor. Like the rest of the planet, Southard learned it was true only on June 7, the day Messi announced his intentions in a rare interview with two Spanish news outlets.
For many, the immediate question was the soccer one. Six months after winning the World Cup with Argentina, why was Messi, the finest player of his generation and arguably the best of all time, leaving the elite clubs and competitions of Europe to join a team that ranked among the worst in the comparative backwater of America’s top league, Major League Soccer?
For Southard, and for Adidas, there was a rather more pressing matter. Within a couple of days of Messi’s announcement, the company had received almost 500,000 requests from stores and suppliers for jerseys in Miami’s soft, electric pink. It is a specific fabric and a specific shade: Pantone 1895C. “It’s not like it was white, and we had inventory we could repurpose,” Southard said.
Even if they could not foresee quite what a phenomenon the jersey would become, and quite how many people would clamor to get their hands on one, Southard and his colleagues had some sense of what was about to happen.
Adidas was going to need more of that fabric. A lot more.
‘No. 1 priority’
On the day Messi announced he would sign for Inter Miami, Adidas had a stock of Inter Miami jerseys in stores and storage facilities around the United States. It did not last. The shirts sold out so quickly that Southard said it seemed the inventory simply “evaporated.”
Getting the fabric to make more — and fast — was just the first step. Although Adidas would not start selling official Messi jerseys until his contract was formally signed on July 15, it placed orders for vast rolls of the pink fabric needed to make them within 24 hours of his interview on Spanish television in the first week of June.
The risk, of course, was that the deal could still collapse. “It’s a trade-off you make for speed,” Southard said.
In ordinary circumstances, retailers order jerseys as many as nine months in advance. Major sportswear brands, like Adidas and Nike, generally prefer to produce large batches of team gear, rather than manufacturing to meet demand, as fast fashion chains tend to do.
Given the number of what the industry terms “chase buys” — a sudden influx of orders in unanticipated volumes — for Messi’s Inter Miami jersey, Adidas knew its usual playbook would not work.
It had learned that from experience. In 2021, when Cristiano Ronaldo returned to Manchester United, one of the handful of retailers Adidas works with, Fanatics, asked for 1 million more jerseys. A year later, after Messi helped Argentina win the World Cup, Adidas had to produce and ship an extra 400,000 Argentine national team shirts in the span of three months.
Getting pink jerseys bearing Messi’s name and No. 10 into the market, Southard said, immediately became Adidas’ “No. 1 priority, globally.”
To streamline the process, the company sourced the pink, recycled polyester fabric for the jerseys as close as possible to the factories in Southeast Asia that would make them. Orders for other details like logos and crests were expedited at other facilities, sometimes leapfrogging the production of apparel for other Adidas teams. To cut down on shipping times, the first batches of the Messi jerseys were sent out in small shipments, almost as soon as they came off the production line.
The frantic production effort worked. Initially, Adidas had told its retailers to begin selling jerseys with a promise of delivery by Oct. 15. But the first editions arrived in the United States by July 18. They were sent straight to Miami, where demand was highest.
They sold out almost instantly.
‘Everyone has a hookup’
On a street corner in Miami’s wealthy Brickell neighborhood one evening last month, two young men had set up a pop-up Messi store, their racks groaning with Inter Miami jerseys in pink and an alternate version — black with pink trim — that the team wears on the road. This was the work of the imaginatively titled Messi Miami Shop.
The name sounds official. The online store looks it, too. It sells two versions of the Messi jersey, as most sportswear manufacturers now do: a “player version” made with high-quality material and an athletic cut, and a “replica” designed for fans whose bodies might not have the precise dimensions of an elite athlete.
The Messi Miami Shop is not, though, affiliated in any way with Messi, Inter Miami or Adidas. (It is, though, a shop.) Its jerseys had come, instead, from a contact in Thailand, purchased for $10 apiece. “This is Miami,” one of the sellers said. “Everyone has a hookup.” And a markup: The stall was selling the jerseys at $25 for a children’s edition and as much as $65 for an “authentic” inauthentic adult version of the team’s black jersey.
The sellers, who declined to give their names for reasons that should be obvious, had sold around 30 in a couple of hours, they said. But they are not the only ones hustling.
A few nights earlier, outside Exploria Stadium in Orlando, Florida, a different group of hawkers were doing their own brisk business in Messi jerseys. Messi was not playing that night — he missed several weeks of the season because of an injury — but Inter Miami was in town, and plenty of fans were prepared to pay $40 for a pink jersey bearing his name, even if it had shoddy stitching and was plucked from a backpack.
Despite all of Adidas’ attempts to get its official Messi jerseys into stores as quickly as possible, the clamor for them — any version of them — has proved so great that counterfeits have flooded the global market to meet the shortfall.
Although the company says it has now largely caught up with the backlog of orders, it has found that it is still selling jerseys far faster than it can produce them, and not just in the United States.
In Buenos Aires, where Messi’s status as a national treasure was sealed by victory in the World Cup, there are pink jerseys for sale in store after store and kiosk after kiosk along Calle Florida, one of the Argentine capital’s teeming shopping streets, and in the stalls of the bustling San Telmo Market. At some vendors, the fakes go for about $50.
In Europe, where tribal affiliations to local clubs run deep, Miami jerseys are suddenly commonplace. At a training session for elementary school children last month in Manchester, England, the usual concentration of Manchester United, Manchester City and Liverpool gear was flecked with a half dozen pink Inter Miami jerseys, each bearing Messi’s name.
It is difficult to overstate the scale of demand. Official sales have surpassed every benchmark Adidas could have imagined, Southard said: more than the frenzy that accompanied David Beckham’s move to the Los Angeles Galaxy in 2007; beyond the rush prompted by Ronaldo’s return to Manchester United in 2021; beyond the clamor for Messi’s Argentina shirt in the aftermath of Qatar 2022.
Inter Miami is now the bestselling Adidas soccer jersey in North America, ahead of all five of the storied European clubs that the brand traditionally regards as the crown jewels of its portfolio: Manchester United, Real Madrid, Juventus, Bayern Munich and Arsenal.
Since July, Fanatics, which dominates sports apparel in the United States, has sold more Messi jerseys than for any other soccer player, and any athlete at all except Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts. No player, in any sport, has ever sold more jerseys on the site in the first 24 hours after switching teams than Messi did in July.
His cinematic arrival in MLS — with a late game-winning goal in his debut on July 22 — came too late to salvage Inter Miami’s season. The club will miss the playoffs, which start Wednesday. Messi will not play in pink again until next year.
But that has done little to quell his impact. Inter Miami’s games drew record crowds from the moment he arrived. The team’s ticket prices for next season have soared. Adidas is confident that it has enough of the next edition of Messi’s jersey — due out in February — in production to meet demand.
For many fans and retailers, it cannot come a moment too soon. The jersey has become so coveted, so scarce, that even Beckham himself — one of the most famous soccer players of his generation, a worldwide celebrity and, as part-owner of Inter Miami, Messi’s boss — has found it hard to get hold of one.
More than once, he has wanted to send a pink Messi jersey to a friend or an associate as a gift, only to be told that he will have to wait, just like everyone else.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Sport clothes; Clothing; Tournaments & championships; Manufacturing; Soccer; Inventory

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Inventory

Location: Southeast Asia; United States--US; North America; United Kingdom--UK; England; Argentina; Florida; Europe

People: Messi, Lionel

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Thomson Reuters Corporation; Manchester United (Soccer Team); Shutdowns (Institutional); Real Madrid (Soccer Team); Arsenal (Soccer Team); Trademarks And Trade Names; Munich (Germany); Usa Today; Inter Miami (Soccer Team); Thailand; Manchester City (Soccer Team); Florida; Hurts, Jalen (1998 ); United States; Miami (Fla); Textiles; Liverpool (Soccer Team); Sports; Madrid (Spain); World Cup 2022 (Soccer); Men And Boys; Storage; Ronaldo, Cristiano; Nike Inc; Major League Soccer; Europe; La Paz (Bolivia); Bangkok (Thailand); England; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Shopping And Retail; Advertising And Marketing; Forgery; Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Education (K 12); Factories And Manufacturing; Messi, Lionel; Soccer; Uniforms; Orlando (Fla); Bayern Munich (Soccer Team); Fanatics Inc; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Juventus (Soccer Team); Pantone Inc; Philadelphia (Pa); Bolivia; Qatar; North America; Athletics And Sports; Sporting Goods And Equipment; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Adidas Ag; Los Angeles Galaxy (Soccer Team); Beckham, David; Philadelphia Eagles; Buenos Aires (Argentina); Counterfeit Merchandise; Fans (Persons); Argentina

Title: The Stratospheric Rise of Lionel Messi’s Pink Jersey

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 23, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-23T21:00:06Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2880576087

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stratospheric-rise-lionel-messi-s-pink-jersey/docview/2880576087/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 23, 2023

Last updated: 2025-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Street Tutorials In How to Dress: [Style Desk]

Author: Cha, Simbarashe

Publication info: Cha, Simbarashe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/street-tutorials-how-dress/docview/2867679429/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: During London Fashion Week, the streets become a laboratory for experiments in getting dressed.
Some people in the fashion industry think that London Fashion Week has become less exciting than its counterparts. But you have to wonder if those people pay attention to the streets.
During the shows in London, maybe more than in any other fashion week city, the streets are a sort of laboratory for experiments in getting dressed. The style can be so ahead of the curve that trends happening elsewhere are already considered over. Outside one show, for instance, I complimented a woman on her Maison Margiela tabis -- a type of cloven-footed shoes that recently caused a stir on TikTok. Her response? "Tabis are kind of basic now."
If split-toe footwear was tired, what wasn't? Judging by the crowds, fuzzy sweaters that were tied around the body or worn in other unusual ways. There were also lots of neckties, often worn traditionally and by women.
And I noticed many people in Simone Rocha and Molly Goddard, two British labels whose feminine clothes are at once nostalgic, modern, casual and elegant. Fortunately, nobody I saw had dressed them down with Adidas Sambas.
Photograph Shades, bob and bag, above, with a pleasing geometry. From left: clean lines and timeless character; two women echoing two women on a sweater; chiseled stonework, chiseled features. Below left, pearls on her fingers and neck. Below, a metal chain beneath a silver tie.; Above, rocks in his ears, a pendant around his neck. Above right, headphones and loose jersey. Near right, fuzz on fuzz with an over-the-shoulder sweater and, far right, a furry gray sweater and skirt. Below from left: intricate wire earrings; dangly ear bows; gauzy black layers and spiky shoes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMBARASHE CHA) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Fashion

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/23/style/london-fashion-week-street-style-spring-2024.html

Title: Street Tutorials In How to Dress:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 24, 2023

column: Style Outside

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2867679429

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/street-tutorials-how-dress/docview/2867679429/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Older Subway Riders Find Joy Is in the Journey: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Kim, Victoria; Lee, Chang W

Publication info: Kim, Victoria; Lee, Chang W. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/older-subway-riders-find-joy-is-journey/docview/2867495016/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The subway rumbled toward its final stop north of Seoul. Along the way, hordes disembarked, with the determined, brisk gait of those with somewhere to be.
Far from the city center, the thicket of high-rise buildings grew sparser, and the afternoon sun crept deeper into the train cars, riding on an elevated track at that point. By the end of the line, many who remained on board were noticeably older -- nodding off, gazing out the window, stretching their shoulders.
Lee Jin-ho -- dressed smartly in a straw hat, white Adidas and a crisp hanbok -- had taken two subway lines for more than an hour from his home to the last stop, Soyosan, on a steamy August day. He ambled about a hundred yards beyond the station, rested briefly in the shade -- and then got right back on the train heading south.
An 85-year-old retired interior designer, Mr. Lee is one of Seoul's throngs of subway-riding seniors, who take advantage of the country's longstanding policy of free fares for people older than 65 and spend their days riding the trains to the end of the line, or to nowhere in particular, and sometimes back again. On long summer days -- with Seoul's temperatures averaging highs of more than 87 degrees in August -- the air-conditioning is robust, the people-watching is engrossing and the 200 miles of subway tracks in the city are almost limitless in their possibilities for urban wanderings.
"At home, I'd just be bored, lying around," Mr. Lee said.
Older adults who ride free of charge make up about 15 percent of Seoul's annual ridership, according to data from the subway's two main operators. The riders have become such an established part of the city's fabric that they have a nickname -- "Jigong Geosa," derived from the phrase "free subway" -- and the lines and stations frequented by them are well known.
Mr. Lee and his wife live in a cramped apartment, subsisting on a pension of a few hundred dollars, and his wife is largely homebound after five knee surgeries. For him, Mr. Lee said, there's no better way to while away the days than to go for a free ride. The day before, he rode the trains in a loop -- south to the end of Line 4, northwest to the last stop on the Suin-Bundang Line, back east on Line 1 -- without setting foot outside the subway system.
"One spin around is exactly four hours," he said.
He sets out on his own several times a week, heading for one of two stops equidistant from his home: Suyu Station is 1,100 steps to the north; Mia Station is 1,250 steps to the south. (He has counted.)
Riders like Mr. Lee say they know to abide by the careful rhythms and unspoken rules of subway riding: Avoid rush hour, when trains are packed and everyone is in a hurry. Don't stand in front of seated young people, lest they feel pressured to give up their spot.
"You read, and doze off," said Jeon Jong-duek, 85, a retired math professor who was riding with a volume on the theory of Chinese poetry tucked in his satchel. "It's remarkably cool. There isn't a corner of Seoul I don't go to."
Park Jae-hong, 73, who still works sporadically as a construction inspector and has been dabbling in modeling, said he found the subways meditative and relaxing. "For me, it's an oasis," he said.
There are six seats reserved for older passengers on either end of each train car, but Seoul in general seems to have less of a place for older people, even as South Korea is aging rapidly.
Cha Heung-bong, now 80, a former minister of health and welfare who proposed the free-fare policy around 1980, said many older South Koreans live on limited incomes because the national pension system wasn't instituted until the late 1980s. About four in 10 South Koreans over 65 live in poverty, double the rate in Japan or the United States, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Mr. Lee stopped working in interior design two decades ago when he couldn't learn his way around a computer. He then took a job as a night guard at a middle school, where he worked for eight years -- until the school told him he was too old for that, he said.
"You can't keep up with the young folks," he said.
With the subway system in a yearslong deficit, politicians routinely broach scrapping the free fares or raising the age to qualify. The mayor of Seoul, Oh Se-hoon, noted at a panel in February that less than 4 percent of the city was over 65 when the policy was adopted decades ago; now that age group makes up more than 17 percent.
"Do old people become old because they want to?" Kim Ho-il, president of the Korea Senior Citizens Association and a retired lawmaker, said at the forum. "We were nudged along into old age by the passing years."
"Why are you trying to take this happiness away?" he asked, arguing that the country was saving more in health care by keeping older adults active.
On a recent afternoon, on shaded benches outside Soyosan Station, a rotating cast of older men who had each ridden the trains there alone sat around gabbing, their conversation meandering from history, to the economy, to South Korea's stature in the world. Cicadas wailed discordantly, and trains periodically rumbled in.
"My apartment is so hot. On a day like this, the subway is a place of rest, a summer resort," said Father Kim, a silver-haired 80-year-old Catholic priest, who wore his collar and black clerical garb with the sleeves rolled up as the temperature neared 90 degrees. He didn't want to give his full name because, he said, he serves in Jesus' name.
Han Kwei, 80, said he liked riding the trains in the early morning, when hard-working people were returning home after the overnight shift.
The men spoke of the leaner times of their youth. Mr. Han recounted working as a miner in Germany decades ago, as many poor South Koreans did at the time, and another man chimed in about his impoverished childhood, when few managed to eat three meals a day.
The seemingly trifling savings of 1,500 won per ride, about $ 1.15, is significant for their generation, and most would ride the subways far less if it weren't free, they said.
Bae Gi-man, 91, said that after his wife of seven decades passed away last year, he spent days at home barely washing or eating. Subway outings motivate him to get dressed -- he was wearing a polo shirt, slacks and a flat cap -- and he eats and sleeps better after a jaunt, he said.
At home, he keeps five copies of the Greater Seoul subway map that he consults to chart his journeys.
"If I had to pay the fare there and back, I couldn't do it," he said.
By about 4 p.m. on the day he was riding, Mr. Lee was well on his way home. Glancing around the subway car that looked to be at least half occupied by older people, he said he agreed that the age for free fares should probably be raised.
"Seventy, 75-year-olds are spring chickens," he said. "Sixty-five-year-olds are basically children."
Photograph A subway stop in Seoul. Riders over 65 don't pay a fare, and many take advantage of the perk. (A1); PARK JAE-HONG, 73, took a trip to Onyangoncheon Station by Seoul Subway Line 1 to visit a local market that opens every five days, and then took a hot bath at a local Oncheon Bath House in Onyang.; LEE JIN-HO, 85, took two subway lines for more than an hour to the last stop. "At home, I'd just be bored, lying around," Mr. Lee said.; BAE GI-MAN, 91, said after his wife died last year, he spent days at home. Subway trips motivate him to get dressed.; EON JONG-DUEK, 85, a retired math professor, said of the subway, "It's remarkably cool. There isn't a corner of Seoul I don't go to."; Retirees make up about 15 percent of Seoul's annual ridership, according to data from the subway's two main operators. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) This article appeared in print on page A1, A6.

Subject: Subways; Older people; Interior design

Location: South Korea

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/world/asia/south-korea-seoul-subways-aging.html

Title: Older Subway Riders Find Joy Is in the Journey:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 23, 2023

column: Seoul Dispatch

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2867495016

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/older-subway-riders-find-joy-is-journey/docview/2867495016/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For South Korea’s Senior Subway Riders, the Joy Is in the Journey

Author: Kim, Victoria

Publication info: Kim, Victoria. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/south-korea-s-senior-subway-riders-joy-is-journey/docview/2867407111/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SEOUL, South Korea — The subway rumbled toward its final stop north of Seoul. Along the way, hordes disembarked, with the determined, brisk gait of those with somewhere to be.
Far from the city center, the thicket of high-rise buildings grew sparser, and the afternoon sun crept deeper into the train cars, riding on an elevated track at that point. By the end of the line, many who remained on board were noticeably older — nodding off, gazing out the window, stretching their shoulders.
Lee Jin-ho — dressed smartly in a straw hat, white Adidas and a crisp hanbok — had taken two subway lines for more than an hour from his home to the last stop, Soyosan, on a steamy August day. He ambled about 100 yards beyond the station, rested briefly in the shade — and then got right back on the train heading south.
An 85-year-old retired interior designer, Lee is one of Seoul’s throngs of subway-riding seniors, who take advantage of the country’s long-standing policy of free fares for people older than 65 and spend their days riding the trains to the end of the line, or to nowhere in particular, and sometimes back again. On long summer days — with Seoul’s temperatures averaging highs of more than 87 degrees in August — the air conditioning is robust, the people-watching is engrossing and the 200 miles of subway tracks in the city are almost limitless in their possibilities for urban wanderings.
“At home, I’d just be bored, lying around,” Lee said.
Older adults who ride free of charge make up about 15% of Seoul’s annual ridership, according to data from the subway’s two main operators. The riders have become such an established part of the city’s fabric that they have a nickname — “Jigong Geosa,” derived from the phrase “free subway” — and the lines and stations frequented by them are well known.
Lee and his wife live in a cramped apartment, subsisting on a pension of a few hundred dollars, and his wife is largely homebound after five knee surgeries. For him, Lee said, there’s no better way to while away the days than to go for a free ride. The day before, he rode the trains in a loop — south to the end of Line 4, northwest to the last stop on the Suin-Bundang Line, back east on Line 1 — without setting foot outside the subway system.
“One spin around is exactly four hours,” he said.
He sets out on his own several times a week, heading for one of two stops equidistant from his home: Suyu Station is 1,100 steps to the north; Mia Station is 1,250 steps to the south. (He has counted.)
Riders like Lee say they know to abide by the careful rhythms and unspoken rules of subway riding: Avoid rush hour, when trains are packed and everyone is in a hurry. Don’t stand in front of seated young people, lest they feel pressured to give up their spot.
“You read, and doze off,” said Jeon Jong-duek, 85, a retired math professor who was riding with a volume on the theory of Chinese poetry tucked in his satchel. “It’s remarkably cool. There isn’t a corner of Seoul I don’t go to.”
Park Jae-hong, 73, who still works sporadically as a construction inspector and has been dabbling in modeling, said he found the subways meditative and relaxing. “For me, it’s an oasis,” he said.
There are six seats reserved for older passengers on either end of each train car, but Seoul in general seems to have less of a place for older people, even as South Korea is aging rapidly.
Cha Heung-bong, now 80, a former minister of health and welfare who proposed the free-fare policy around 1980, said many older South Koreans live on limited incomes because the national pension system wasn’t instituted until the late 1980s. About 4 in 10 South Koreans over 65 live in poverty, double the rate in Japan or the United States, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Lee stopped working in interior design two decades ago when he couldn’t learn his way around a computer. He then took a job as a night guard at a middle school, where he worked for eight years — until the school told him he was too old for that, he said.
“You can’t keep up with the young folks,” he said.
With the subway system in a yearslong deficit, politicians routinely broach scrapping the free fares or raising the age to qualify. The mayor of Seoul, Oh Se-hoon, noted at a panel in February that less than 4% of the city was over 65 when the policy was adopted decades ago; now that age group makes up more than 17%.
“Do old people become old because they want to?” Kim Ho-il, president of the Korea Senior Citizens Association and a retired lawmaker, said at the forum. “We were nudged along into old age by the passing years.”
“Why are you trying to take this happiness away?” he asked, arguing that the country was saving more in health care by keeping older adults active.
On a recent afternoon, on shaded benches outside Soyosan Station, a rotating cast of older men who had each ridden the trains there alone sat around gabbing, their conversation meandering from history, to the economy, to South Korea’s stature in the world. Cicadas wailed discordantly, and trains periodically rumbled in.
“My apartment is so hot. On a day like this, the subway is a place of rest, a summer resort,” said the Rev. Kim, a silver-haired 80-year-old Catholic priest, who wore his collar and black clerical garb with the sleeves rolled up as the temperature neared 90 degrees. He didn’t want to give his full name because, he said, he serves in Jesus’ name.
Han Kwei, 80, said he liked riding the trains in the early morning, when hardworking people were returning home after the overnight shift.
The men spoke of the leaner times of their youth. Han recounted working as a miner in Germany decades ago, as many poor South Koreans did at the time, and another man chimed in about his impoverished childhood, when few managed to eat three meals a day.
The seemingly trifling savings of 1,500 won per ride, about $1.15, is significant for their generation, and most would ride the subways far less if it weren’t free, they said.
Bae Gi-man, 91, said that after his wife of seven decades passed away last year, he spent days at home barely washing or eating. Subway outings motivate him to get dressed — he was wearing a polo shirt, slacks and a flat cap — and he eats and sleeps better after a jaunt, he said.
At home, he keeps five copies of the Greater Seoul subway map that he consults to chart his journeys.
“If I had to pay the fare there and back, I couldn’t do it,” he said.
By about 4 p.m. on the day he was riding, Lee was well on his way home. Glancing around the subway car that looked to be at least half occupied by older people, he said he agreed that the age for free fares should probably be raised.
“Seventy, 75-year-olds are spring chickens,” he said. “Sixty-five-year-olds are basically children.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Subways; Older people; Interior design

Location: New York; United States--US; South Korea

People: Lee, Chang W

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Germany; Railroads; Roman Catholic Church; Education (K 12); Organization For Economic Cooperation And Development; Poverty; Seoul (South Korea); Colleges And Universities; Age, Chronological; Subways; Stations And Terminals (Passenger); Economic Conditions And Trends; Budgets And Budgeting; Maps; Youth; South Korea; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Elderly; World; Cooking And Cookbooks; Japan; Appointments And Executive Changes

Title: For South Korea’s Senior Subway Riders, the Joy Is in the Journey

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-22T19:14:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2867407111

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/south-korea-s-senior-subway-riders-joy-is-journey/docview/2867407111/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In London, Fresh Ideas Rise Above the Fray: [Style Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/london-fresh-ideas-rise-above-fray/docview/2866624803/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Cake bags, tube stop takeovers and word of a new top editor at British Vogue. Here is what we saw at London Fashion Week.
Working in fashion is no fairy tale -- just ask the independent designers in London. They may give the city its reputation as a hub of fearless creativity, but in times of economic upheaval, it is tougher for smaller labels to stay afloat. Once-buzzy names like Christopher Kane and Halpern went out of business this year. And this fall, the fashion week schedule seemed much lighter than in seasons past.
Several rising stars chose not to show their collections, including Nensi Dojaka, S.S. Daley and, after a last-minute cancellation, Dilara Findikoglu. But there was still much to be excited about, with some of the most talked-about shows from newer members of the fashion vanguard on the schedule: the dreamy draping on gowns at Di Petsa and Standing Ground, and the collision of skater grunge and Cornish milkmaids at Chopova Lowena (the label behind the cult carabiner-pleated kilts that seem to be everywhere). And then there was Priya Ahluwalia, who presented sublime prints inspired by unsung heroes of color, past and present, which were based on reporting in The New York Times's "Overlooked" series.
Plenty of members of the London fashion establishment were also on hand to deliver big moments. Jonathan Anderson came out to play with hoodies and shorts molded from clay, all hunched shoulders and rippled pockets that exaggerated the swagger of youth on the street. Roksanda, London's queen of color, sent out airy gowns in lilac and lime inspired by monastery frescoes from her native Serbia.
Molly Goddard deconstructed undergarments to reveal the internal structures that hold them -- and us -- together, to charming effect. And Erdem's collection, inspired by Deborah Cavendish, the Duchess of Devonshire, also touched on the idea of the undone. Specifically, the lived-in elegance of the English aristocracy was reflected in oversize coats made from spliced waxed Barbour jackets and Chatsworth house textiles, as well as cocktail dresses made from curtains that once belonged to Debo, one of the late, great chatelaines of Britain.
London may be down, but it is definitely not out. Here is what we saw -- and heard -- that turned our heads this week.
The Most Welcome Trend
One figure stalked the London runways this season, and that was the scarlet woman. At 16Arlington, she wore feathery, skintight latex; at Chet Lo, in keeping with the designer's signature knitting technique, she was cherry red and spiky to the touch. At JW Anderson, she was playful in crochet, and at Supriya Lele and Simone Rocha, she was elegant and ready for after-dark play. The designs were an antidote to all the quiet luxury chat of late. A good red dress will always turn heads. Bye-bye beige.
The Most Delicious Accessories
Ms. Rocha's show at the English National Ballet studios was strewn with roses, including real stems sewn into the sheer paneling of her dresses, and flowers painted onto models' faces and limbs. Satin hair bows and ribbon trails danced along the floor. On the models' feet? Platform Crocs encrusted with chunky crystals and pearls that were inspired by the artist Cy Twombly's plaster cakes. And the accompanying handbags the models carried looked good enough to eat.
The Most Affecting Tribute
Richard Quinn's show was dedicated to his father, who died in June. Mr. Quinn is known for his showstopping gowns, and the workmanship this season, including the thousands of crystal droplets that hung like tears, and delicate mesh dresses with embroidered, boned skirts that looked like bird cages, was couture-level. When a weeping Mr. Quinn stepped out for the finale, his mother took him in her arms. The audience then joined her in giving the designer a standing ovation.
The Worst-Kept Secret
On Monday, after weeks of speculation, Chioma Nnadi was confirmed as the successor to Edward Enninful at British Vogue (where Mr. Enninful was editor in chief). Ms. Nnadi, 44, will become the first Black woman to lead the fashion title when she takes up the recast role of head of editorial content next month. Currently, she is the editor of the American Vogue website, and a longtime favorite of Anna Wintour. Her new gig will be a homecoming of sorts, as Ms. Nnadi is London-born.
The Trippiest Set
Matty Bovan knows how to turn heads. He delivered the set of the week when he had his front row guests come backstage for dinner while his models got runway ready. Amid a frenzy of hair and make-up touch-ups, guests ate lobster pot pie and drank Tanqueray cocktails in the crypt of St. Martin-in-the-Fields church, an arm's reach from models, like Ashley Graham, who were wearing Mr. Bovan's collaged amalgamations of fabric and form.
The Most Considered Prints
Foday Dumbuya, the founder of Labrum, is one to watch. Mr. Dumbuya, who won the Queen Elizabeth II Award for British Design this year, uses his label to tell stories about African art, fashion and history. This season, his eyes were on the Nomoli figurines of Sierra Leone and Liberia. They were printed on textured shorts suits and rain macs, as well as Samba sneakers and white rubber clogs, as part of a partnership with Adidas. He has just been nominated for the New Establishment men's wear award, a new category at this year's Fashion Awards. Watch this space.
The Silliest Drama
For his sophomore show for Burberry, Daniel Lee opted to paint the town blue. Specifically, the British fashion house took over the Bond Street tube station, where platform signs were replaced during fashion week to say "Burberry Street" -- a move that baffled scores of tourists and foreigners, who missed their stops.
The Buzziest Exhibitions
Not one, but three new museum exhibitions devoted to fashion opened in London last weekend.
"Gabrielle Chanel: Fashion Manifesto," at the Victoria and Albert Museum, tracks how the woman called Coco became the architect of the modern woman's wardrobe.
At Somerset House, "The Missing Thread: Untold Stories of Black British Fashion" tells the story of Black creativity from the 1970s to the present day that was misrepresented or excluded from the mainstream industry narrative, with a particular focus on the archive of Joe Casely-Hayford, who died in 2019.
And at the Design Museum, an ambitious new retrospective centers on pieces from the first collections of some of the city's best-known designers who were supported by the British Fashion Council's Newgen talent program. Or, in the case of Alexander McQueen, replicas: Following his 1993 show, the designer left garments, including a pair of his famous "bumster" pants, in garbage bags near a dumpster outside a nightclub because he didn't want to pay the cloakroom charge. He only remembered the next morning. The clothes were never seen again.
Sarah Mower, the curator of the retrospective, which is called "Rebel: 30 Years of London Fashion," said that she wanted it to be as much about the culture surrounding the clothes as the pieces in the show. Hence the exhibition is staged with areas dedicated to student design ateliers and grubby nightclub queues, as well as the backstage of a runway show. It is deeply nostalgic but also full of excitement for what might come next in the London fashion scene.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL SIMS; JEFF SPICER/BFC, VIA GETTY IMAGES; LABRUM LONDON; CHARLES McQUILLAN/BFC, VIA GETTY IMAGES, BEN BROOMFIELD, JASON LLOYD-EVANS AND GIOVANNI GIANNONI/WWD, VIA GETTY IMAGES; ; DANIEL ZUCHNIK/GETTY IMAGES; KEMKA AJOKU; ANDY STAGG/THE DESIGN MUSEUM (BUZZIEST); BELINDA JIAO/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D6.

Subject: Clothing; Design; Nightclubs; Museums; Seasons; Designers

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/19/style/london-fashion-week.html

Title: In London, Fresh Ideas Rise Above the Fray:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 21, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866624803

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/london-fresh-ideas-rise-above-fray/docview/2866624803/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Red or Blue, They Want to Dress Like Themselves: [Style Desk]

Author: Janfaza, Rachel

Publication info: Janfaza, Rachel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/red-blue-they-want-dress-like-themselves/docview/2865442151/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Many of the country's youngest elected officials hope to express authenticity through their clothing choices.
Wearing a dark green suit from Express and Cole Haan dress sneakers, Representative Maxwell Frost, Democrat of Florida, took the stage at Metrobar in Washington. He was speaking at an event this summer by Run for Something, a political action committee that supports young Democrats seeking state and local office.
"How's everybody doing?" Mr. Frost, 26, asked a crowd of about 200 people, in which more than one brightly colored Telfar bag could be spotted. A number of attendees, including Mr. Frost, were members of Gen Z, the generation born between 1997 and 2012.
In an interview after his speech, Mr. Frost said that "a cool thing about our generation is that we're super-open to whatever fashion and whatever creativity people bring to the table." Much of his professional wardrobe consists of suits, but he has worn bomber jackets and Dr. Martens shoes at more casual events, he said, as well as T-shirts on the campaign trail.
"I feel like there's a direct connection between Doc Martens, and a certain style, and progressive young people," Mr. Frost said.
He is the only member of Congress from Gen Z, but others from his generation have been elected to state legislatures and city councils across the country at a time when more young people have been showing up to vote. A 2021 study by the Tisch College of Civic Life at Tufts University found that 50 percent of those 18 to 29 voted in the 2020 election, an 11 percent increase over 2016.
Though Gen Z politicians can often be seen in the type of formal attire that lawmakers have worn for decades -- in part because of workplace dress codes that date to before they were born -- some said their clothing choices reflect a priority to appear authentic. In a 2021 survey of American Gen Z-ers by the consulting and accounting firm Ernst & Young, 92 percent of participants said authenticity is a priority. That authenticity can be an important tool as these elected officials do the sometimes less visible work of lawmaking.
The House of Representatives and the Senate have rules of procedure, which include governance on how members should dress. But neither chamber has an official dress code.
On the Senate floor, for instance, male lawmakers are expected to wear a jacket and tie. The rules in the House have been relaxed in recent years. In 2017, the chamber started allowing female members to wear open-toed shoes and sleeveless tops or dresses; in 2019, the rules changed to permit head coverings for religious purposes.
State and city governments have their own protocols, some of which have recently drawn attention. A flyer distributed to Florida legislators' offices in January warned women not to wear skirts that landed more than one inch above the knee at the Capitol in Tallahassee. That same month, the Missouri House updated its dress code, requiring female legislators and staff members to wear jackets; male colleagues have had the requirement for years.
Mazzie Boyd, a Republican in the Missouri House who previously worked in the Trump White House, said her legislature's new dress code has not stopped her from embracing her personal style at work.
"I wear what I want to wear," said Representative Boyd, 25, who described her style as country and sophisticated. She favors colorful pieces from brands like Ann Taylor, Ralph Lauren, Calvin Klein and Ivanka Trump's namesake fashion line, which shut down in 2018.
"I try not to match my skirt with my shirt," she said. "If I'm doing a tweed skirt, I don't want to wear the matching tweed jacket. With dresses, it's the same thing. I'm not trying the exact same color or exact same pattern on every element."
Ms. Boyd said that her mixing of colors and patterns has caught the attention of some older colleagues, who have commented on how her outfits are a reminder that they "don't have to wear black on black with a white shirt every day," as she put it.
"Now, am I saying that people replicate what I wear? Probably not," she added. "I'm kind of my own gal."
Caleb Hanna, a Republican in West Virginia's House of Delegates, also said his clothes could set him apart from colleagues. On Fridays, he said, there is a tradition among some Republican members of the State House of Delegates to wear camel suit jackets, a decades-old ritual in which he has not participated.
"I think that politics today is a lot different from politics of the past," Delegate Hanna, 23, said. "Politics of the past, especially in West Virginia, has focused on this good-old-boy system, and it was more of a club."
Mr. Hanna, whose favorite brands include Vineyard Vines, said he liked wearing sports coats but hated ties. "If I'm just walking around the Capitol after we adjourn for the day, usually the first thing that comes off is my tie," he said. "I'm always trying to get my tie off."
Chi Ossé, 25, a Democrat from Brooklyn in the City Council, said that he has expressed his personal style at work through clothes with subtle details (a favorite pair of pleated pants from Uniqlo) and accessories (platform leather shoes from Dr. Martens).
Councilman Ossé has also been known to wear a black beret, a style of hat adopted by the Black Panthers, at public appearances, including at a meeting of New York City's Rent Guidelines Board in June. He started wearing the beret while organizing Black Lives Matter protests in 2020, he said. Later, when he announced his campaign for City Council, it became a way for people to recognize him. "It felt right to wear, and it felt me," he said.
Mr. Ossé said he has never felt pressure to dress formally, but that when he has worn a suit or a tie, he has been taken more seriously by colleagues and constituents. "People treat you differently," he said.
Joe Vogel, a Democrat in Maryland's House of Delegates, said choosing what to wear has often required a careful balance.
Delegate Vogel, 26, who is running for an open congressional seat in 2024, said that he looks "a little bit more relatable" when he doesn't wear jackets. His Adidas Stan Smith sneakers, he added, are a staple on the campaign trail. When he does wear a shirt and tie, he will often roll up the sleeves to appear more casual.
Leaders of Run for Something and Run GenZ, an organization that supports young Republicans running for state and local office, said the groups encourage candidates they support to wear clothes that will boost their confidence.
"Our advice is to dress up, but that doesn't mean you cannot be able to express yourself as well," said Joe Mitchell, 26, the founder of Run GenZ and a former Republican Iowa State representative. When he was in office, he added, "I felt like I could look the part even when I was back home going to a county party central committee meeting wearing a flannel shirt, jeans and tennis shoes."
Amanda Litman, a founder of Run for Something, said that her organization supports female candidates, L.G.B.T.Q. candidates and candidates of color who, as she put it, "can't pretend to be like the rich, old white men of yore."
"They can only be who they are," Ms. Litman said. "They are just unwilling to pretend in a way that is really appreciated."
And it's not only Gen Z politicians who are dressing more casually.
Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, 52, a Democrat, likes wearing pink -- fuchsia, to be precise. The House speaker, Kevin McCarthy, 58, Republican of California; Senator Mitch McConnell, 81, Republican of Kentucky; and Representative Hakeem Jeffries, 53, Democrat of New York, all recently wore dress sneakers to a meeting at the Oval Office. It is hard to picture Senator John Fetterman, 54, Democrat of Pennsylvania, in anything other than hooded sweatshirts and shorts.
Representative Sara Jacobs, 34, Democrat of California and a millennial, said she thought many elected officials now made appearing authentic a priority, "over some generic standard of what a politician has historically looked like."
In June, members of the recently formed Congressional Sneaker Caucus, which is led by Representative Jared Moskowitz, 42, Democrat of Florida, and Representative Lori Chavez-DeRemer, 55, Republican of Oregon, hosted the first Sneaker Day on Capitol Hill.
"We don't wear powdered wigs anymore in Congress," Mr. Moskowitz said. Bringing some youth fashion and youth culture to Capitol Hill, he added, is "not a revolution; it's an evolution of how we dress."
Nabeela Syed, 24, a Democrat in the Illinois House, said she has typically worn white sneakers to work -- she also favors Adidas Stan Smiths -- because she makes dressing comfortably a priority. White sneakers, she said, have been a wardrobe staple since she was in high school.
"I'm still sticking to what has been me throughout," Representative Syed said. "To what feels like me."
Photograph Chi Ossé, above, a New York City councilman, likes pleated Uniqlo pants and platform leather shoes by Dr. Martens. Mazzie Boyd, above right, a Missouri state representative, said of her outfits, "I'm kind of my own gal." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLARK HODGIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; TIM BOMMEL); Nabeela Syed, above left, an Illinois state representative, often wears Adidas Stan Smith sneakers. Caleb Hanna, above right, a West Virginia state delegate, says, "I'm always trying to get my tie off." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLAYTON HAUCK; ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Municipal government; Athletic shoes; Generation Z; Politics; Clothing; Authenticity; Dress codes

Business indexing term: Subject: Dress codes

Location: United States--US; Missouri; California; Florida; West Virginia

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/16/style/gen-z-politicians-style.html

Title: Red or Blue, They Want to Dress Like Themselves:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865442151

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/red-blue-they-want-dress-like-themselves/docview/2865442151/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

GPS Watch? No Way. Some Elite Runners Are Ditching the Data.: [Sports Desk]

Author: Cacciola, Scott

Publication info: Cacciola, Scott. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gps-watch-no-way-some-elite-runners-are-ditching/docview/2865176221/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As a decorated college runner at Notre Dame and then at the University of Tennessee, Dylan Jacobs dabbled with a device that many of his teammates considered indispensable.
But on those rare occasions when Jacobs succumbed to peer pressure and slapped a GPS watch around his wrist, he almost immediately remembered why he had resisted the temptation in the first place.
"The runs just felt so much longer," said Jacobs, 23, a three-time N.C.A.A. champion who recently turned pro. "That was one of my main problems with it. I wasn't enjoying myself or looking around. Instead, I was kind of looking at the watch every quarter-mile to see how much longer I had left."
GPS watches -- popular brands are Garmin, Suunto and Coros -- come equipped with satellite technology and heart rate monitors to produce a buffet of functions. Want to know how far and how fast you've run, or how many milliliters of sweat you dumped in Central Park last weekend? How about your average stride length? Your cadence? The list goes on.
For many, GPS watches are a remarkably useful training tool. But there are other runners, including world-class runners like Jacobs, who have a hard time understanding the fuss. To them, a smorgasbord of data is more hindrance than help. And get this: Some runners don't wear watches at all.
"I like to focus more on the feel of everything and not worry too much about the time," Jacobs said.
Heather MacLean, an Olympic 1,500-meter runner, recalled a period of her life when she enjoyed the utility of a GPS watch. As a student at the University of Massachusetts, she grew to understand the value of sleep -- and more important, that she was not getting enough of it -- while working in a neuroscience laboratory. So she began using a Garmin Forerunner to monitor her rest and adjust her schedule.
Later, as a first-year pro with Team New Balance Boston, MacLean tried to be consistent about wearing a GPS watch but was hampered by a couple of issues. First, she was always forgetting to charge it.
"I would just let it die all the time, and I'm super lazy with that kind of stuff," she said.
Second, MacLean realized her watch was draining the fun from her runs. It was especially apparent to her during a low-key stretch when she was simply trying to build fitness.
"I hated that every run I went on, I felt like I had to check my pace and my distance and whatever else," she said. "So I just decided that I was going to lay off it for a while and switch to a regular watch."
She never went back. MacLean, 28, who now wears an Armitron Dragonfly that she said she picked up for $ 10 at Walmart, acknowledged that there were certain workouts when a GPS watch would come in handy, like when she did a tempo run by herself. (Tempo runs are faster than easy jogs, and frequently run at a prescribed pace.) But Mark Coogan, her coach, has long prioritized effort over pace, and MacLean logs her training in minutes rather than in miles.
"I know I'm at the elite level now, so not everything is going to be joyful," MacLean said. "But when there are things that bring me a lot of joy, I'm going to invest in them. And one of those things is the ability to avoid focusing on my pace during my runs."
Without the pressure of feeling as if she needs to account for every mile -- or, perish the thought, post her workouts for public inspection on Strava, the exercise-tracking platform -- MacLean has also gotten better about listening to her body. She has no qualms about bailing on an extra workout if she is feeling beat.
"And I'll tell Mark that I'm going for a walk instead," MacLean said. "And he's like, 'OK!"'
Sam Prakel was a high school standout in Versailles, Ohio, when the assistant coach of his cross-country team introduced him to the magic of GPS watches. Prakel invested in one. It was a mistake from the start.
"I just started running too fast on all my runs," Prakel said, "and it became harder to recover from them because I was so focused on my pace. I learned pretty quickly that it wasn't good for me."
Prakel opted instead for a Timex Ironman, which he wore through his freshman year at the University of Oregon. When the band snapped in his sophomore year, he ordered another. Prakel, 28, has worn the same no-frills watch ever since -- through his time at Oregon, where he was a five-time all-American, and in more recent years as a pro miler for Adidas. He has never needed to change its battery.
The reigning U.S. indoor champion in the men's 1,500 and 3,000 meters, Prakel has a system that works for him, which is a throwback in a sense. What did any runners do before the advent of GPS watches? They estimated. In Prakel's case, a 65-minute run is roughly equivalent to 10 miles and a half-hour jog is good for four miles. He does not need to be precise.
"As long as I do the same things every week and keep it consistent, that's all that matters," he said, adding: "I feel like I'm in a better place when I don't have all that data to worry about."
For some runners, aesthetics also matter. Luke Houser, a junior at the University of Washington who won an N.C.A.A. championship in the men's indoor mile last winter, wears a vintage-inspired Casio with a digital display and a gold metal band. His teammates simply refer to it as "the gold Casio."
"I just think it looks cool," he said. "I've never been interested in cadence or heart rate, which I don't think is ever that accurate anyway. All you need to know is how you feel and the time. That does the job."
Kieran Lumb, who recently broke his own Canadian record in the men's 3,000 meters, is well aware that he is the type of person who is susceptible to the sweet lure of data.
At the University of British Columbia, Lumb majored in electrical engineering. Later, while running at Washington, he earned a master's degree in information systems. And for the longest time, no one who knew him was surprised that he maintained an Excel spreadsheet to catalog his sleep, workouts and something he called "rated perceived fatigue."
"Just trying to do a little bit of data science on myself," he said.
The twist is that Lumb, 25, who now runs professionally for the athletics apparel brand On, has not worn a GPS watch since he was a competitive cross-country skier growing up in Canada. He made the switch as a college freshman to a Casio calculator watch that didn't even have a proper lap function for track workouts.
"So I'd just have to remember all my splits," he said, "and it was awesome."
Lumb noted that because many runners are naturally competitive, they can become obsessed with numbers. And the business of making it to the top of the heap as an elite runner can be especially taxing.
As a result, Lumb's coach, Andy Powell, tries to keep things as simple as possible. For Lumb, that has meant ditching his Excel folder in favor of Powell's old-school approach: weekly workout sheets that his runners fill out and file in three-ring binders.
"There's something nice about slowing down and writing it by hand that I find almost endearing," Lumb said. "It's taken a while for me to be less neurotic, but it's liberating."
Photograph Luke Houser, Sam Prekel and Kieran Lumb, above left, all eschew GPS watches. Heather MacLean, above center, wears a $ 10 watch from Walmart. Some runners like simple digital Timexes, above right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID JAEWON OH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JIM MCISAAC/GETTY IMAGES); Some elite runners like Prakel and Lumb have said that GPS watches are a distraction, and they prefer old-school Timex watches. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID JAEWON OH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Cross country running; Physical fitness; Heart rate

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/16/sports/gps-watches-professional-runners.html

Title: GPS Watch? No Way. Some Elite Runners Are Ditching the Data.:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865176221

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gps-watch-no-way-some-elite-runners-are-ditching/docview/2865176221/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2860256053/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I have always enjoyed wearing vintage clothing and used to love going to flea markets, picking up items and saying: "My grandmother wore that," or "My mother had those." Then it happened: I picked up a dress and said, "I owned that!" When you get old enough to remember the first time around, can you still wear retro without looking dated?
Ilene, Larchmont, N.Y. It is true that when we think about vintage clothing these days, we often think about it as a young person's game: Gen Z rediscovering the '90s and finding the joy in low-slung cargo pants, cropped tops and mini backpacks; or fresh-faced celebrities looking hip in midcentury haute couture.
Loving resale is a good thing, no question, but it has also led to a situation where the whole meaning of "vintage" has become confused with "used clothes" and "retro" -- which are, in fact, not actually synonyms.
There is, as it turns out, no generally accepted definition of "vintage" -- The Vou's newsletter describes it as "any object representing a previous era or social period, at least 20 years old but not older than 100 years." Vestiaire says that vintage is "15 years old or older."
But if we think of the meaning the way the Cambridge Dictionary does, as "of high quality and lasting value, or showing the best and most typical characteristics of a particular type of thing," then it becomes a signifier of connoisseurship, knowledge and taste. And that, in answer to your question, has absolutely no age limit.
As Simone Hines of Erstwhile Style Vintage pointed out, whatever clothes you remember from your own youth will look different through the lens of now. You have changed over the years, as has your body.
Rachel Zabar, a vintage dealer in Los Angeles who says she still wears the ruched minidress she wore to her prom, offered a few guidelines when I called.
First, approach vintage "ironically."
"I grew up in the 1980s, and I love a striped knee-high tube sock," she said. "Sometimes I wear these on the tennis court with a cute Stella McCartney for Adidas tennis dress."
Second, think high-low, as in "a vintage Diana Ross Live in Central Park tee with a pair of high-waist jeans."
And finally, take a page from the vintage looks Carrie (a.k.a. Sarah Jessica Parker) modeled in the last season of "And Just Like That...," many of which came from Converted Closet, a label that upcycles vintage garments. Then, alter the look.
See, for example, Carrie's white lace jumpsuit, which was made from a 1980s Victorian-style wedding dress. Or, for that matter, her actual Vivienne Westwood wedding dress, which became a last-minute Met Gala gown. A turquoise wrap, a kooky hat and that dress was given a whole new, more modern, meaning.
Every week in the Open Thread newsletter -- a look from across The Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share -- The Times's chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, answers a reader's fashion-related question. Sign up for Open Thread at nytimes.com/newsletters.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Tennis; Clothing

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/01/pageoneplus/04a3_openthread.html

Title: Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2860256053

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2860256053/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lifted, and Crushed, by China: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Li, Yuan

Publication info: Li, Yuan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lifted-crushed-china/docview/2858547730/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two years ago, as she walked through a hospital hallway in handcuffs and shackles to get tested for Covid, Sun Junli felt ashamed and defeated. At 45, she had come a long way. The poor village girl in northwestern China had become a successful businesswoman.
Then she was crushed.
In 2018, state-owned banks abruptly stopped lending to her business, a chain of cafe restaurants, and the pandemic destroyed her cash flow. By May 2021, Ms. Sun had lost her restaurants, and she was serving 16 days in detention for owing her employees about $ 28,000 in wages.
Weeks after her release, a court would seize her two-bedroom apartment in Xianyang in Shaanxi Province and her Toyota Camry because she was insolvent, and put her on a national blacklist. She can no longer book a hotel room or a plane ticket, or take out a loan.
"I'm surrounded by people like me," she said, counting dozens of friends in dire straits, entrepreneurs in fields like fashion, energy and furniture manufacturing. "We all came from nothing and worked hard to create wealth," Ms. Sun said. "We all lost everything and are deeply in debt."
"Are we all bad at what we do?" she asked. "Are we all wrong?"
A few years ago, Ms. Sun was the epitome of how small-business owners, through hard work, killer instinct and luck, became the backbone of the economy.
Now she illustrates something very different: how China, under the leadership of Xi Jinping, killed the animal spirits of the entrepreneur class as it asserted more state control of the economy. Mr. Xi's government has withdrawn help when business owners needed it the most, punished them for their risk-taking and failures, and made it nearly impossible for them to start over.
The Chinese authorities like to call small businesses the capillaries of the economy. But years of capricious government policies, crackdowns and blacklisting have left firms battered or destroyed.
In 2021, when China was heralding its success in fighting the pandemic, the number of small firms that shut their doors outnumbered those that opened, Zeng Xiangquan, a professor at Renmin University in Beijing, told an official newspaper.
Business confidence is still hurting, one reason that China is in an economic quagmire. Small businesses make up about 95 percent of China's private sector, which contributes about 50 percent of national tax revenue, 60 percent of economic output and 80 percent of new jobs.
Ms. Sun's career began in the 1990s. After dropping out of high school at 17 to support her family, she worked as a farmer, a textile worker, a street food vendor and a taxi driver. Then in Hancheng, a city of about 400,000 people near her village, she opened three sportswear stores that sold Nike, Adidas and the Chinese brand Anta. It was 2008, the year China held its first Olympic Games, a coming-out party for an emerging power. She would make what she called her "first bucket of gold."
In 2013, when e-commerce began to affect retail businesses, Ms. Sun opened Manny Coffee, a 4,000-square-foot cafe in Hancheng. It sold coffee, steak, pizza and other Western-style food and drinks, a novelty in the city. By 2018, she had expanded to 20 branches in six smaller cities in Shaanxi Province.
When she had started out years earlier, Chinese banks were reluctant to lend to the private sector. Around 2015, given competition from online financial institutions such as Ant Group, regulators instructed banks to lend more to small businesses.
Banks chased after Ms. Sun, who borrowed $ 1.3 million to expand and build a central production kitchen for her restaurants. But the credit dried up suddenly in 2018. The regulators, worried about debt, issued new guidelines telling banks to "pay attention to the quality of loans to small businesses."
The abrupt change bruised many companies. The fallout got so bad that regulators started to investigate the "irrational practices" of banks.
But it was too late for Ms. Sun. In October 2019, she borrowed money from family and friends to pay back her last bank loan, about $ 300,000. Her restaurants were doing well -- revenue reached $ 8 million in 2018. She was confident that the Chinese New Year in January 2020 would bring in healthy cash flows.
On the eve of the holiday, all her branches were shut as the coronavirus began to spread fast. The shutdown was lifted after three months, but her business never recovered. To pay rent and wages, Ms. Sun borrowed more from people close to her and maxed out her credit cards. Every month, she believed that the next month would be better. The government offered no help.
By November 2020, she was $ 1.5 million in debt and couldn't keep going. She shut the six restaurants she owned outright and gave up a 70 percent ownership she had in the 14 others, and in exchange her minority shareholders agreed to pay rent and wages.
China doesn't really allow for bankruptcy, which in other countries can allow business owners to work out the money they owe.
Ms. Sun owed six weeks of wages to her 31 employees. The employees reported her to the local labor inspection agency, which handed her to the police.
During her 16 days in the detention center, her hair went gray. She spent most time meditating. The police didn't release her until their investigation confirmed that she hadn't hidden any assets. A year later, the court would find "no criminal facts" against her, according to a court document. But she had lost her business and her reputation.
Ms. Sun tried to make a living by helping to manage the 12 Manny Coffee branches that were still in operation. But she had little work and income in 2022 because of China's draconian "zero Covid" measures. The apartment complex where she rents was locked down eight times. Her brother, who delivered meals, sometimes gave her money and brought her food.
Her father, who had lung cancer and had become infected with Covid, died on Dec. 25, 2022. It was her birthday. She turned 47.
Like many Chinese, Ms. Sun thought business would bounce back in 2023 after Covid restrictions were dropped. But it didn't.
To make a living, she is trying to start a new food business. In the economic downturn, she figures, her former customers might not want to pay $ 15 for steak, but they might buy a bowl of spicy vegetables for $ 4.
She said she didn't expect any financial support from the government. But she'd like to get off the blacklist she was added to in 2021.
The so-called dishonest persons list was started in July 2013, a few months after Mr. Xi took power. It had eight million people on it in March. Many business owners got swept onto the list, including the founders of at least 22 of the top 500 private enterprises in China, according to Chinese media reports.
"I'm not asking them to give me money," Ms. Sun said. "But I'd really like them to get my name off the blacklist so I can become a normal person and start a business again."
"I can't fly if I want to go to Shanghai," she said. "I can't take the high-speed train. I can't travel. In a way, it's no different from locking me down at home."
Photograph Sun Junli, who founded and expanded Manny Coffee into 20 cafes, at a branch under new owners in Xianyang, China. (B1); Sun Junli rents an apartment from a friend after her own apartment in Xianyang was seized for debts. This Manny Coffee cafe, left, is one of 12 remaining branches. Ms. Sun now wants to start a food business. (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Blacklisting; Food; Restaurants; Coffee; Small business loans; Employees; Physical restraints; Pandemics; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Small business loans Employees

Location: China; Shaanxi China

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/29/business/china-small-business.html

Title: Lifted, and Crushed, by China:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 30, 2023

column: The New New World

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2858547730

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lifted-crushed-china/docview/2858547730/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Upon Review, Nike Concedes a Gaffe in Goal: [Style Desk]

Author: Holtermann, Callie; Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Holtermann, Callie; Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/upon-review-nike-concedes-gaffe-goal/docview/2857512301/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After being criticized for not offering replicas of the jerseys worn by the English goalkeeper Mary Earps and others in the Women's World Cup, Nike said limited quantities would be available.
With each breathtaking save made by Mary Earps, the goalkeeper who helped England's national team take second place in the Women's World Cup, the complaints from fans got louder: Why couldn't they buy a replica of her Nike jersey?
Nike, which outfitted the team, has attempted to present itself as being ahead of the curve in terms of offering support to female athletes and emerging sports talent. Though the company, the world's largest sportswear maker by sales, acknowledged fans' interest in replica goalkeeper jerseys, it initially did not commit to making them.
That changed on Wednesday, after thousands of people had signed a petition requesting that replicas of the jerseys worn by Ms. Earps and other women goalkeepers be released, and after a motion addressing the issue was submitted in the British Parliament.
"Nike has secured limited quantities of goalkeeper jerseys for England, U.S., France and the Netherlands to be sold through the federation websites over the coming days, and we are also in conversations with our other federation partners," a spokeswoman for Nike said in a statement emailed to The New York Times on Wednesday evening, referring to members of FIFA, soccer's global governing body.
Nike is "committed to retailing women's goalkeeping jerseys for major tournaments in the future," the spokeswoman said in the statement, which did not specify how many jerseys would be available or when they could be purchased.
In the days before, Nike, which outfitted 13 of the 32 teams in the Women's World Cup, had faced an escalating backlash from soccer fans on the issue. (Replica goalkeeper jerseys were available for four of the men's teams Nike sponsored in last year's World Cup.)
Many of the complaints centered around Ms. Earps, 30, who received the Golden Glove, an award recognizing the top goalkeeper in the tournament. "She's the best in the world right now, and she doesn't have a jersey," Beth Mead, who has played for England's women's national team, told the BBC. "She doesn't have a shirt that young boys and girls can buy."
Why wouldn't Nike want to offer replica jerseys for popular goalkeepers?
In the past, goalkeeper jerseys have not been best sellers for athletic-wear companies, for a few reasons.
With a few exceptions, goalkeepers typically do not cultivate the kind of passionate fan base that other players like forwards can, meaning potentially fewer jersey sales.
A goalkeeper's jersey is also different from that of other teammates to ensure they stand out on the field. (Ms. Earps's World Cup jerseys were emerald green and pink; her teammates' were blue and white.) While a team's main shirt can be produced en masse -- with versions for various players requiring a simple name change on the back -- a goalkeeper's jersey requires a much smaller and more customized manufacturing run.
Though interest in women's soccer has risen, the sport still drives fewer apparel sales globally compared to men's soccer.
Did other brands make jerseys for goalkeepers playing in the Women's World Cup?
Adidas, which outfitted 10 teams for the tournament, did not offer replica goalkeeper jerseys. Neither did Puma, which made kits for Morocco and Switzerland.
But Hummel, which made jerseys for Denmark's national women's team, and Castore, which made them for Ireland, each have released replica goalkeeper jerseys for those teams.
How did the controversy start?
At a news conference at the start of the Women's World Cup, Ms. Earps expressed frustration about Nike's decision not to offer replicas of the jerseys worn by participating teams' goalkeepers. "It is hugely disappointing and very hurtful," she said, adding that she had sought talks with both Nike and the Football Association, the governing body for English soccer, after England won the European Women's Championship tournament last year.
Ms. Earps, who is a goalkeeper for Manchester United in the Women's Super League, also pushed back on the idea that her jersey would not sell. "My shirt on the Manchester United website was sold out last season," she said.
By the time England faced off against Spain in the Women's World Cup final, Ms. Earps had made several vital saves that helped keep her team in the tournament. Her star performance only intensified questions about Nike's decision.
David Seaman, a former goalkeeper for Arsenal and England's men's national team, posted a message of support for Ms. Earps while she was playing in the final. "Bet Nike are regretting not selling the #maryearps shirt now," he wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter.
Another post on X shared that day read in part: "My 10 year old daughter is the goalie in her school team. She's just gone online to buy a jersey for next year and wanted one like Mary Earps's only to find Nike don't do one. 'That's a bit stupid' she said."
In the absence of an official replica jersey by Nike, some of Ms. Earps's fans made their own jerseys using tape. Several small retailers also started manufacturing jerseys similar to her Nike shirt.
How did Nike respond at first?
In a statement released after the Women's World Cup final on Sunday, which England lost 1-0 to Spain, Nike tried to put the focus on the future.
"We are working toward solutions for future tournaments in partnership with FIFA and the federations," the company said. "The fact that there's a conversation on this topic is a testament to the continued passion and energy around the women's game, and we believe that's encouraging."
That did not satisfy Ms. Earps. On Tuesday, she reposted Nike's statement to her Instagram account, adding the text: "Is this your version of an apology/taking accountability/a powerful statement of intent?"
In another Instagram post, she shared a link to a Change.org petition that had been created in her support. It has received more than 150,000 signatures.
Ms. Earps, through a representative, declined to comment for this article.
How did Parliament get involved?
This week, Tracey Crouch, a member of Parliament and former sports minister, submitted a motion calling on Nike to release a jersey for Ms. Earps.
Nike "could have changed this," Ms. Crouch wrote in an essay published in The Independent on Wednesday. "They still can if they take their fingers out of their tin ears and listen to the hundreds of thousands of women who have signed the petition, gone on social media, listened to the outcry on the media."
The change of course by Nike, and the loud online chorus that apparently prompted it, underscore the growing influence of the global women's game and its major names.
Photograph Mary Earps, the goalkeeper for England's national women's soccer team, received the Golden Glove award at the Women's World Cup, which recognized her as the best goalkeeper in the tournament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAMERON SPENCER/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Women; Soccer

Location: England; Spain; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: Federation Internationale de Football Association--FIFA; NAICS: 813990; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/24/style/nike-mary-earps-jersey.html

Title: Upon Review, Nike Concedes a Gaffe in Goal:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857512301

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/upon-review-nike-concedes-gaffe-goal/docview/2857512301/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2025-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Do I Love Thee? Even More Than My Sneakers.: [Society Desk]

Author: Anello, Chloe

Publication info: Anello, Chloe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-do-i-love-thee-even-more-than-my-sneakers/docview/2857512278/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tina Liu and Michael Ghory spent years living on opposite coasts, waiting for the right moment to make their relationship happen. Then, a well-timed selfie brought them back together.
Tina Liu is not afraid to admit that she chased Michael Ghory.
The couple first met on the dating app Happn in 2014. A self-described "sneakerhead," Mr. Ghory posted photos of his outfits -- some taken by street-style photographers like Tommy Ton -- on his dating profile. He hoped that the right woman would appreciate his sense of style. Enter Ms. Liu.
They began with a three-hour phone call that went smoothly, and then planned their first in-person date. But Mr. Ghory, who is from Lexington, Mass., and Milwaukee, canceled at the last minute, saying his brother was in town.
"I wasn't entirely honest," Mr. Ghory, 39, said. "My brother lived in town. It was hard to say to him, 'No, we're not going to hang out because I'm going to go on this date with a stranger."'
"I was furious, like, screw this guy," said Ms. Liu, who moved to Federal Way, Wash., from Hunan, China, with her family in 1992. "I was just on to the next."
That winter, they matched again on Tinder. Ms. Liu, 33, decided to give him another chance. "Dating in New York is really hard," she said. "So I was like, OK, nothing better has emerged, so I'm going to swipe right."
Mr. Ghory planned a date at the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum. But to test the waters, they first met for coffee at Via Quadronno, an Italian restaurant on the Upper East Side. Excited but nervous, Ms. Liu borrowed her friend's Acne Studios sneakers because she didn't think she owned anything "worthy of the shoe guy."
Mr. Ghory noticed the sneakers and, to equally impress her, he surprised her with a spaceship figurine, as Ms. Liu had once mentioned that she was interested in space.
"I think, probably subconsciously, it was a little forgiveness gift -- please forgive me for flaking last time," Mr. Ghory said.
Six dates followed, but work became too demanding for both of them, and things fizzled.
Then, in March 2016, they ran into each other at Bed Bath & Beyond on a Friday night. Mr. Ghory was preparing to leave for a new job with Adidas in Portland, Ore., but he asked Ms. Liu if they could catch up over dinner. She said no.
"I was so horrified that I did not look the way I was hoping I would when I ran into him," said Ms. Liu, who had just emerged from a workout class. Instead, she suggested that they go out the next day.
They went to the Trailer Park Lounge and realized that their connection was still strong. Even though he was moving across the country, Ms. Liu didn't want to let him go.
Mr. Ghory messaged her every time he returned to New York, and she visited him once in Portland in September 2016. After that trip, Ms. Liu knew she loved him. She told him a week after her trip, but Mr. Ghory didn't say it back.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
"It was my last Hail Mary," Ms. Liu said. "I know I did everything I could to make something that I really believed in happen."
Instead, they stopped talking.
In May 2017, Ms. Liu noticed on Facebook that it was Mr. Ghory's birthday and sent him a "thirst trap" selfie of her wearing a formal dress, hoping it would spark something again. They rekindled their relationship through text messages, and soon attended weddings together as each other's dates.
Mr. Ghory decided to move to Cambridge, Mass., to be closer to his father, who had prostate cancer, and secured a job there in merchandising for Converse. In November 2017, he saw Ms. Liu before moving and gave her a notecard that read, "Will you be my girlfriend?"
Now that they were on the same coast -- Ms. Liu in New York, and Mr. Ghory in Cambridge -- they took the bus to visit each other every weekend. When the Covid-19 pandemic began, Ms. Liu moved into Mr. Ghory's apartment for two weeks, which turned into two years.
"She's the first person in my entire life who I can just spend every hour of every day with and not get annoyed or need separation," said Mr. Ghory.
On March 12, 2022, Mr. Ghory enlisted Ms. Liu's brother, Kevin, to photograph the proposal at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, underneath an arch leading to the courtyard. Afterward, they celebrated in a suite at the Kimpton Marlowe Hotel.
The couple were married Aug. 12 at Peirce Farm at Witch Hill in Topsfield, Mass., by Mr. Ghory's brother Joseph, who was ordained by the Universal Life Church. Their 133 guests included Ms. Liu's parents, who moved back to Hunan in 2004 and have lived there since. The couple celebrated with both Jewish and Chinese traditions. They plan to host a traditional tea ceremony in China in a few months.
Ms. Liu, who holds a bachelor's degree in philosophy and psychology from New York University, works as the director for global social content at Supergoop, a sunscreen company. Mr. Ghory, who has a master's in business administration from Columbia and a bachelor's in English from Tufts University, recently left the sneaker world to become the vice president for apparel and lifestyle at Yuga Labs, a web3 company.
"I told Tina in my vows, 'I promise to love you more than shoes,"' Mr. Ghory said. "I've always made these decisions for a shoe career. And now, I'm making decisions for a family." Next month, he plans to move to New York to be with Ms. Liu.
"If I had a thousand lives to live," Ms. Liu said, "I would make the same choice to pursue him every time."
Photograph Tina Liu, Michael Ghory (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAYES & BAKER PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Athletic shoes; Personal relationships; Museums

Location: China; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/25/style/tina-liu-michael-ghory-wedding.html

Title: How Do I Love Thee? Even More Than My Sneakers.:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857512278

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-do-i-love-thee-even-more-than-my-sneakers/docview/2857512278/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Gloves Fit, So Players Wear Lots of Them: [Sports Desk]

Author: Buchanan, Zach

Publication info: Buchanan, Zach. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gloves-fit-so-players-wear-lots-them/docview/2857202549/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: One day this month, Jake McCarthy, an outfielder for the Arizona Diamondbacks, slid open a large drawer inside his locker and attempted a quick accounting of its contents. Inside, piled haphazardly on top of one another, were several boxes of Franklin batting gloves.
"I get eight boxes of batting gloves" to start the season, McCarthy said, and each contains six pairs of gloves. That's 48 sets of gloves for a campaign that lasts roughly 27 weeks. What remains in that drawer represents the final third of his supply, and by the end of this season, they'll most likely all be gone. Under normal circumstances, one pair of gloves can last McCarthy around 10 games.
Swapping them out is easy. After all, since making the majors two years ago, he has not had to pay for a single pair.
McCarthy is hardly a star -- in fact, the Diamondbacks recently optioned him to the minor leagues -- but he's accustomed to the good life of the majors. When it comes to batting gloves, the big leagues are the land of plenty. Almost every big-league hitter has an endorsement deal with a glove manufacturer that provides them with more free gloves than they can shake a 34-ounce bat at.
That's good because, boy, do they go through them. Other than the ball, which no player really owns, no piece of baseball equipment is as fungible as a pair of batting gloves. Many hitters go through them like Tic Tacs, in no small part because the supply is inexhaustible. The instant a pair shows any sign of imperfection -- a loosening grip, a minor tear or, heaven forbid, a cold streak at the plate -- they're gone in favor of a crisp replacement.
"We're so spoiled," McCarthy said. "You go 0 for 5 or something and you're like: 'It's not me. It's the batting gloves."'
Among major-league hitters, batting glove peccadilloes run the gamut. McCarthy can't stand when his start to feel sweaty, while James Outman, a rookie outfielder for the Los Angeles Dodgers, is bothered when the palms of his gloves begin to stretch. For Juan Soto, a star outfielder for the San Diego Padres, it's often about wrist tightness. "You start feeling the strap is getting longer and longer," Soto said, leading to frequent between-pitch adjustments. And for just about every hitter, a hard slide into a base often means a ripped pair of gloves.
Perhaps no player changes his gloves as often as Garrett Cooper, a first baseman acquired by San Diego at the trading deadline. On average, he goes through a pair every two days. His issue isn't grip loss or stretching but crunchiness. He covers his hands with sticky spray before stuffing them into his gloves, and it isn't long before they have stiffened like a metal gauntlet. When the leather begins to crack, he calls Franklin to re-up.
"They probably hate when I ask for another order," he said, "because it seems like they send me one out every few weeks."
Glove manufacturers don't really mind. It's good business to keep even the most persnickety of big-league batters flush with supply. That has been the case for 40 years, ever since the introduction of Franklin's first glove built specifically for gripping a bat. That glove, Franklin's Pro Classic, was designed in 1983 in consultation with the Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt. Hitters had tried wearing gloves before -- Ken Harrelson is often credited with starting the practice in the 1960s by using a golf glove, although there are earlier instances of gloved experimentation -- but soon after the Pro Classic's introduction, nearly every hitter was wearing Franklin gloves.
Franklin has been the official batting glove of Major League Baseball since 1988 and still has a stranglehold on the big-league market. Of the roughly 400 hitters on opening day rosters this year, Franklin's president, Adam Franklin, says that 250 wear his company's gloves. Franklin has deals with another 450 players who began the year in the minors. And while the company offers a variety of models, some costing $ 40 or more for retail shoppers, many players are wearing gloves that are functionally identical to the pair Schmidt introduced.
Other companies have gotten into the game over the years. The biggest sporting goods companies -- Nike, Adidas, Under Armour -- make batting gloves and have a presence in the majors. So do boutique outfits like Lizard Skins and Bruce Bolt, the latter started in 2017 by a then-16-year-old Texas high schooler. Some players have hopped on board with those newer gloves, but many prefer to stick with what has become familiar. Kiké Hernández, the versatile utility player, is an example. He spent a year being paid well to endorse Lizard Skins before switching back to his trusty old Franklins.
"I decided that I wasn't going to switch brands for money," Hernández said. "I'd rather make the money on the field."
Hernández spoke a week after being traded back to the Dodgers following more than two years with the Boston Red Sox, a change that meant he needed a resupply of Dodgers-colored batting gloves. And if anything has changed over the four decades that batting gloves have ruled the sport, it is the advent of the batting glove as a fashion statement. An initial offering of just a few colors has blossomed to every shade on the spectrum.
There are color schemes for every team's uniform set. Bright neon colors are all the rage, a trend that Adam Franklin traces back to the Red Sox slugger David Ortiz wearing gloves with bright yellow piping during the 2013 World Series -- though Rickey Henderson, way ahead of his time on so many things, wore neon green Mizuno gloves while leading the Oakland Athletics to the 1989 World Series. There are also pink gloves for Mother's Day and powder blue ones for Father's Day, as well as special sets for Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Jackie Robinson Day and Roberto Clemente Day. Most of those are worn for one game only, although they may make nongame appearances.
"You'll see me with some exotic batting gloves on in batting practice," McCarthy said, "not necessarily for the swag purposes."
The supply of gloves may be abundant -- "If there was an issue," McCarthy said, "I feel like there would be a new box in my locker within 48 hours" -- but players actually do try to make them last. Many of them have a pair for batting practice and a pair for the game, a rotation necessary to keep both pairs fresh and dry. Luis Gonzalez, whose single won the 2001 World Series for Arizona, would hang his gloves in front of a dugout fan between at-bats. Other hitters take preventive measures. San Francisco's Robby Thompson and Will Clark would hermetically seal their gloves in freezer bags between games to prevent degradation.
"They'd pull them out the next day," said Matt Williams, a former Giants infielder and current Padres coach, "and they were still soft."
Most hitters have no qualms about ditching a pair of gloves the second they lose a step, but a few remain who ride with a pair until the treads are bald. Breaking in a new pair means blisters to Corbin Carroll, a rookie sensation for the Diamondbacks, so he goes through a season wearing only three or four pairs, which means using them until they're threadbare. "I get crap about it all the time," he said. Superstition leads others to hold on to theirs. There are grip and fit, and then there are results.
"If I like the pair and the pair is getting hits," Hernández said, "the pair is going to be worn for a while."
But one tear, Hernández says, and even the most productive pair of gloves lands in the trash can, a fate that highlights the essential paradox of a good batting glove. It must grip well and be durable, but it also must be light and offer what Franklin calls the feel of a "second skin." (There are still a few gloveless players, like Matt Carpenter of the San Diego Padres, who prefer the first skin, their own, but they are vanishingly few.) Good gloves also must move as the hand does while remaining tight around it.
There have been technological advancements since the Pro Classic. Bruce Bolt hypes the unique stitching it uses around the wrist, as well their gloves' long and compression wrap-like wrist straps, a feature Franklin has also recently incorporated. Later this year, Franklin will introduce gloves with built-in guards for the back of the hand, and Adam Franklin says 2024 will bring "some more unique designs happening with wrist compression and fit and feel."
Players will always seek any slight performance edge they can gain, but it's unlikely that any innovation will significantly reduce churn. If pitchers know they've reached the show when every baseball is a flawless white pearl, and learn to blithely toss it aside at the appearance of any minor scuff, then hitters have the same realization when it comes to their batting gloves. As unpaid amateurs and poorly paid farmhands, they had to make them last. But when you can routinely stuff a new pair in your pockets without the money for them coming out, you know you've made it.
"When you're the big-leaguer making all the money," Gonzalez said, "that's when you get all the free stuff."
Photograph EDUARDO ESCOBAR: With the Mets, his gloves were blue and orange.; ELLY DE LA CRUZ: The sensational Reds rookie makes a statement.; CARDINAL RED: St. Louis players accessorize gloves with their uniforms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON DOSTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS); MARTIN MALDONADO The Astros' catcher employs matching gloves and helmet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS); CORBIN CARROLL The Arizona rookie uses his gloves until they're threadbare. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN PETERSEN/GETTY IMAGES) (B6); GLOVE STORY: Franklin has been the official batting glove of Major League Baseball since 1988 and still has a stranglehold on the big-league market. But the Padres' Matt Carpenter, right, doesn't wear gloves at all. What's wrong with him? (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANKLIN SPORTS; MATT SLOCUM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6-B7); MIKE SCHMIDT: The Hall of Famer was also a pioneer of batting gloves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS); SHOHEI OHTANI: The Angels' superstar prefers New Balance gloves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY A. VASQUEZ/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS); BRYCE HARPER: The Phillies' slugger has opted for Under Armour. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARMEN MANDATO/GETTY IMAGES); WILL BENSON: The Reds' outfielder used interesting gloves in spring training.; COREY DICKERSON: The Nationals' outfielder has chosen Bruce Bolt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPH CHAMBERS/GETTY IMAGES); A.J. POLLOCK: The outfielder, now with the Giants, likes Adidas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIO CORTEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) This article appeared in print on page B6, B7.

Subject: Professional baseball; Gloves

Location: United States--US; Arizona

Company / organization: Name: San Diego Padres; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/25/sports/baseball/batting-gloves.html

Title: The Gloves Fit, So Players Wear Lots of Them:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857202549

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gloves-fit-so-players-wear-lots-them/docview/2857202549/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Gloves Fit, So Players Wear Lots of Them

Author: Buchanan, Zach

Publication info: Buchanan, Zach. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gloves-fit-so-players-wear-lots-them/docview/2857157962/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
PHOENIX — One day this month, Jake McCarthy, an outfielder for the Arizona Diamondbacks, slid open a large drawer inside his locker and attempted a quick accounting of its contents. Inside, piled haphazardly on top of one another, were several boxes of Franklin batting gloves.
“I get eight boxes of batting gloves” to start the season, McCarthy said, and each contains six pairs of gloves. That’s 48 sets of gloves for a campaign that lasts roughly 27 weeks. What remains in that drawer represents the final third of his supply, and by the end of this season, they’ll most likely all be gone. Under normal circumstances, one pair of gloves can last McCarthy around 10 games.
Swapping them out is easy. After all, since making the majors two years ago, he has not had to pay for a single pair.
McCarthy is hardly a star — in fact, the Diamondbacks recently optioned him to the minor leagues — but he’s accustomed to the good life of the majors. When it comes to batting gloves, the big leagues are the land of plenty. Almost every big-league hitter has an endorsement deal with a glove manufacturer that provides them with more free gloves than they can shake a 34-ounce bat at.
That’s good because, boy, do they go through them. Other than the ball, which no player really owns, no piece of baseball equipment is as fungible as a pair of batting gloves. Many hitters go through them like Tic Tacs, in no small part because the supply is inexhaustible. The instant a pair shows any sign of imperfection — a loosening grip, a minor tear or, heaven forbid, a cold streak at the plate — they’re gone, in favor of a crisp replacement.
“We’re so spoiled,” McCarthy said. “You go 0 for 5 or something, and you’re like: ‘It’s not me. It’s the batting gloves.’”
Among major league hitters, batting glove peccadilloes run the gamut. McCarthy can’t stand when his start to feel sweaty, while James Outman, a rookie outfielder for the Los Angeles Dodgers, is bothered when the palms of his gloves begin to stretch. For Juan Soto, a star outfielder for the San Diego Padres, it’s often about wrist tightness. “You start feeling the strap is getting longer and longer,” Soto said, leading to frequent between-pitch adjustments. And for just about every hitter, a hard slide into a base often means a ripped pair of gloves.
Perhaps no player changes his gloves as often as Garrett Cooper, a first baseman acquired by San Diego at the trading deadline. On average, he goes through a pair every two days. His issue isn’t grip loss or stretching, but crunchiness. He covers his hands with sticky spray before stuffing them into his gloves, and it isn’t long before they have stiffened like a metal gauntlet. When the leather begins to crack, he calls Franklin to re-up.
“They probably hate when I ask for another order,” he said, “because it seems like they send me one out every few weeks.”
Glove manufacturers don’t really mind. It’s good business to keep even the most persnickety of big-league batters flush with supply. That has been the case for 40 years, ever since the introduction of Franklin’s first glove built specifically for gripping a bat. That glove, Franklin’s Pro Classic, was designed in 1983 in consultation with future Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt. Hitters had tried wearing gloves before — Ken Harrelson is often credited with starting the practice in the 1960s by using a golf glove, although there are earlier instances of gloved experimentation — but soon after the Pro Classic’s introduction, nearly every hitter was wearing Franklin gloves.
Franklin has been the official batting glove of Major League Baseball since 1988 and still has a stranglehold on the big-league market. Of the roughly 400 hitters on opening day rosters this year, Franklin’s president, Adam Franklin, said that 250 wear his company’s gloves. Franklin has deals with another 450 players who began the year in the minors. And while the company offers a variety of models, some costing $40 or more for retail shoppers, many players are wearing gloves that are functionally identical to the pair Schmidt introduced.
Other companies have gotten into the game over the years. The biggest sporting goods companies — Nike, Adidas, Under Armour — make batting gloves and have a presence in the majors. So do boutique outfits like Lizard Skins and Bruce Bolt, the latter started in 2017 by a then-16-year-old Texas high schooler. Some players have hopped on board with those newer gloves, but many prefer to stick with what has become familiar. Kiké Hernández, the versatile utility player, is an example. He spent a year being paid well to endorse Lizard Skins before switching back to his trusty old Franklins.
“I decided that I wasn’t going to switch brands for money,” Hernández said. “I’d rather make the money on the field.”
Hernández spoke a week after being traded back to the Dodgers following more than two years with the Boston Red Sox, a change that meant he needed a resupply of Dodgers-colored batting gloves. And if anything has changed over the four decades that batting gloves have ruled the sport, it is the advent of the batting glove as a fashion statement. An initial offering of just a few colors has blossomed to every shade on the spectrum.
There are color schemes for every team’s uniform set. Bright neon colors are all the rage, a trend that Adam Franklin traces back to Red Sox slugger David Ortiz wearing gloves with bright yellow piping during the 2013 World Series — though Rickey Henderson, way ahead of his time on so many things, wore neon green Mizuno gloves while leading the Oakland Athletics to the 1989 World Series. There are also pink gloves for Mother’s Day and powder blue ones for Father’s Day, as well as special sets for Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Jackie Robinson Day and Roberto Clemente Day. Most of those are worn for one game only, although they may make nongame appearances.
“You’ll see me with some exotic batting gloves on in batting practice,” McCarthy said, “not necessarily for the swag purposes.”
The supply of gloves may be abundant — “If there was an issue,” McCarthy said, “I feel like there would be a new box in my locker within 48 hours” — but players actually do try to make them last. Many of them have a pair for batting practice and a pair for the game, a rotation necessary to keep both pairs fresh and dry. Luis Gonzalez, whose single won the 2001 World Series for Arizona, would hang his gloves in front of a dugout fan between at-bats. Other hitters take preventive measures. San Francisco’s Robby Thompson and Will Clark would hermetically seal their gloves in freezer bags between games to prevent degradation.
“They’d pull them out the next day,” said Matt Williams, a former Giants infielder and current Padres coach, “and they were still soft.”
Most hitters have no qualms about ditching a pair of gloves the second they lose a step, but a few remain who ride with a pair until the treads are bald. Breaking in a new pair means blisters to Corbin Carroll, a rookie sensation for the Diamondbacks, so he goes through a season wearing only three or four pairs, which means using them until they’re threadbare. “I get crap about it all the time,” he said. Superstition leads others to hold on to theirs. There are grip and fit, and then there are results.
“If I like the pair and the pair is getting hits,” Hernández said, “the pair is going to be worn for a while.”
But one tear, Hernández said, and even the most productive pair of gloves lands in the trash can, a fate that highlights the essential paradox of a good batting glove. It must grip well and be durable, but it also must be light and offer what Franklin calls the feel of a “second skin.” (There are still a few gloveless players, like Matt Carpenter of the Padres, who prefer the first skin, their own, but they are vanishingly few.) Good gloves also must move as the hand does while remaining tight around it.
There have been technological advancements since the Pro Classic. Bruce Bolt hypes the unique stitching it uses around the wrist, as well its gloves’ long and compression wraplike wrist straps, a feature Franklin has also recently incorporated. Later this year, Franklin will introduce gloves with built-in guards for the back of the hand, and Adam Franklin said 2024 will bring “some more unique designs happening with wrist compression and fit and feel.”
Players will always seek any slight performance edge they can gain, but it’s unlikely that any innovation will significantly reduce churn. If pitchers know they’ve reached the show when every baseball is a flawless white pearl, and learn to blithely toss it aside at the appearance of any minor scuff, then hitters have the same realization when it comes to their batting gloves. As unpaid amateurs and poorly paid farmhands, they had to make them last. But when you can routinely stuff a new pair in your pockets without the money for them coming out, you know you’ve made it.
“When you’re the big-leaguer making all the money,” Gonzalez said, “that’s when you get all the free stuff.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Professional baseball; Gloves

Location: United States--US; Arizona

Identifier / keyword: Superstitions; Minor Leagues; Arizona Diamondbacks; Clemente, Roberto; Nike Inc; Boston Red Sox; Texas; Los Angeles (Calif); Brooklyn Dodgers; Carroll, Corbin; Wrists; Henderson, Rickey; World Series; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Sports; Arizona; Ortiz, David Giral; Ortiz, David; San Francisco Giants; Soto, Juan (1998 ); San Diego Padres; Mizuno Corp; Gloves; Under Armour Inc; Baseball; Major League Baseball; Uniforms; San Francisco (Calif); Los Angeles Dodgers; Oakland Athletics; Robinson, Jackie; Oakland (Calif); Sporting Goods And Equipment; Adidas Ag

Title: The Gloves Fit, So Players Wear Lots of Them

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-25T23:07:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857157962

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gloves-fit-so-players-wear-lots-them/docview/2857157962/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a Nonbinary Runner Rose to the Top of Track: [Sports Desk]

Author: Minsberg, Talya

Publication info: Minsberg, Talya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-nonbinary-runner-rose-top-track/docview/2853182195/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The American middle distance runner who identifies as transgender and nonbinary gladly carries the weight of a country and a community into the world championships in Budapest.
A transgender pride flag appeared in the stands of Hayward Stadium in Eugene, Ore., just as the middle distance runner Nikki Hiltz stepped onto the track.
The pink, blue and white flag was held overhead, then waved as Hiltz, who identifies as transgender and nonbinary and uses they/them pronouns, made their way to the far side of the track for the 1,500-meter final of the U.S. National Championships in July.
"It was a statement," Hiltz said. "It reminded me that this is bigger than just me."
After 4 minutes 3.10 seconds, Hiltz broke the tape with an explosive final kick to overpower a stacked field that included Athing Mu, the 800 gold medalist at the Tokyo Games; Cory McGee and Heather MacLean, Olympic 1,500 runners; and Sinclaire Johnson, the 2022 national champion in the event.
Hiltz had gotten to this point, they said, partially because of the community around them that cheers not because of their fast times but because of what and who they stand for, starting with themselves.
"I just feel like the L.G.B.T.Q. community needed a win," Hiltz, 28, said soon after becoming the national champion. A smile was painted across their face. This was a ticket to the World Athletics Championships in Budapest, yes, but it was more.
Since publicly sharing their gender identity on March 31, 2021, Hiltz has shouldered this weight of representation, one they embrace.
Doing so has brought Hiltz joy in their community and anguish as they bear witness to an onslaught of bills placing restrictions on transgender youth, limiting sports participation, gender-affirming medical care and bathroom access.
Legislation has directly targeted adults' health care, too. Bills introduced in Oklahoma and South Carolina would make it a felony to provide hormonal or surgical transition treatment to transgender people younger than 26.
In March, the international governing body of track and field, World Athletics, effectively barred transgender women from competing at the highest levels of the sport. The exclusion, similar to rules set by the world governing body for swimming in June 2022, would apply to "male-to-female transgender athletes who have been through male puberty."
The rules, which are mostly targeted toward transgender women, are some of the strictest in international sports.
For Hiltz to continue competing at the top level of women's fields, they cannot pursue gender-affirming care, meaning, specifically, taking testosterone. They hope to one day have top surgery, a gender-affirming double mastectomy, but at this point the goal would be to wait until they have had the opportunity to qualify for and race in the Paris Olympics in 2024.
"Right now, competing in the women's category still feels OK for me and my gender and where I'm at with that journey," Hiltz said. "But the second it doesn't, I'm not going to sacrifice myself for my sport. I'm going to choose the relationship with myself before my relationship with track and field."
It is a sensitive conversation Hiltz has with a frequency that would make even the most media savvy athletes freeze. Hiltz is not just asked about their race strategy, their training or their reaction to their finish time. They are also asked to explain, if not justify, their existence, and contextualize it within this era of culture wars. What does this win mean for them? What does it mean for the entire queer community, or for representation at large?
"I've talked probably more about my trans identities than actually unpacking the race," Hiltz said the afternoon after winning the national title. That is important, they said, but they added, "I am a nerdy athlete at the end of the day; I want to talk about tactics."
Tactically, this race began some three years ago, when Hiltz changed just about everything.
They ended an Adidas contract and started one with Lululemon. They moved from Southern California, where they spent most of their life, to the flourishing high-altitude running capital of Flagstaff, Ariz. They began working with Mike Smith, the coach at Northern Arizona University, and found new training partners. They adopted a dog named Scout with their partner, the fellow runner Emma Gee. And they became a race organizer, hosting a virtual and now in-person Pride 5-kilometer race to support L.G.B.T.Q. organizations.
By the time in-person events and racing returned as the pandemic reached a new stage, Hiltz had a community waiting to cheer them on. Titles in road miles and track meets across the United States followed.
People "light up when they are in Nikki's presence," their mother, Liz Hiltz, said. "They feel like, 'I'm in a safe place,' and you can tell this is not happening to them very much. It breaks your heart open that they can have that much influence making people seen and heard."
So when Hiltz arrived in Eugene with a plan to host a community Pride run the day after the 1,500 final, they felt like they had already won. It is the type of sentiment shared frequently by athletes, intended to lighten what can be crushing pressure. But when Hiltz says it, it is not hard to believe.
"There's less weight on the race because I'm so balanced outside of it," Hiltz said.
Gee, who organizes the Pride 5K event along side Hiltz, nodded.
"It's addressing Maslow's hierarchy of needs," she said, referring to the 1943 theory that humans' most basic needs must be met before they can concern themselves with anything else. "To have such a big, crazy, intense athletic performance and then to have that community space already set up the next day is so healing."
Hours before the race on July 8, Hiltz received their regular race quote (or in this case, the first verse and the chorus from the song "The Cape" by Guy Clark) from their mother, who says she consults everything from "Dr. Seuss to Rumi" to find the right kind of inspirational message to send before Hiltz steps on the track. The tradition dates to Hiltz's days competing at the University of Arkansas. If the race does not go well, Liz Hiltz will sometimes blame the quote, and never use the same author again.
When the gun went off in the 1,500 final, the dozen competitors became physical quickly. There was some jostling as athletes came around the first turn and someone stepped on the back of Hiltz's shoe. With a quick and powerful stride, they slammed their foot down hard to get their spike back on their foot. Another athlete, Dani Jones, was not so lucky. She lost a shoe in the kerfuffle and did not finish. Hiltz tucked into the middle of the pack, patient.
When the bell rang signaling the final lap, Hiltz was cruising in fourth place, but said they knew they were going to finish in the top three to qualify for the world championships. Mu was ratcheting up the pace. Lactic acid was building and burning, and at 300 meters, Hiltz debated hitting the gas. They played it safe instead and waited for the last 50.
"No one was going to out kick me," Hiltz said. And no one did. With the trans pride flag waving near the finish line, Hiltz flew past Mu to win the race. They passed Mu -- they repeat her name in recounting the race, bugging their eyes out of their head -- yes, Mu, the Olympic gold medal winner!
Mu finished second, Cory McGee third and Johnson fourth. With an automatic spot in the 800 as the defending champion, Mu decided to waive her position in the 1,500 at the world championships, so McGee and Johnson will join Hiltz on the U.S. 1,500 meter team.
In Budapest, where heats begin on Saturday, the Americans will have to contend with Faith Kipyegon, the Kenyan powerhouse who has shattered three world records in the past handful of weeks.
But no matter. A rising tide lifts all boats, Kipyegon's competitors are known to say. There are few finish lines that are filled with more enthusiastic, full-bodied hugs after the race.
On July 21, when Kipyegon shattered the mile world record in a remarkable 4:07.64, she brought the field with her. Twelve of the 13 runners set personal bests and seven national records fell. That group included Hiltz, who set a new American record in the mile with a time of 4:16.35, breaking a mark from 1985.
It was the latest result that fueled Hiltz's relentless belief in themselves, the same confidence they said got them to the world championships in Doha, Qatar, in 2019. But this time feels different.
"I've made a world final before, I've been there, done that," Hiltz said. "Now I'm like 'OK, what can I do?"'
They added: "My favorite thing is to compete and I'm excited to now do it again on the global stage in like that, with the momentum I have now and like the communities I have behind me."
Photograph Nikki Hiltz training in the high-altitude running capital of Flagstaff, Ariz., top. Above, left, Hiltz with their partner, the runner Emma Gee; and, center and right, Hiltz reacting after winning the women's 1,500-meter final at the U.S. National Championships in July. "I just feel like the L.G.B.T.Q. community needed a win," they said. The victory ensured a spot at the World Athletics Championships. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAITLIN O'HARA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ASHLEY LANDIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A27.

Subject: Athletes; Non-binary gender; Women; Track & field; Gender identity; Transgender persons

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/19/sports/nikki-hiltz-world-championships.html

Title: How a Nonbinary Runner Rose to the Top of Track:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.27

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182195

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-nonbinary-runner-rose-top-track/docview/2853182195/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pharrell Williams: [TStyle]

Author: Miller, M H

Publication info: Miller, M H. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pharrell-williams/docview/2853182182/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Pharrell Williams -- the clothing designer who succeeded Virgil Abloh in February 2023, just over a year after his death, as Louis Vuitton's men's creative director; the Grammy-winning record producer behind such pop masterpieces as Justin Timberlake's "Justified" (2002) and Clipse's "Hell Hath No Fury" (2006); the musician and performer who in conversation casually refers to the French electronic duo Daft Punk as "the robots" and Karl Lagerfeld as "Karl" -- doesn't like talking about himself. "This is absolutely Dante's 'Inferno,"' he said over the phone this past June, a few days after lighting up Paris's Pont Neuf with his spectacular debut for the French fashion house. At one point, it seemed like he might give up on the conversation altogether. "This is straight up like voice mail syndrome," he said. "I mean, do you like listening to yourself on voice mail?"
Williams, 50, was raised in Virginia Beach by his father, Pharaoh, a handyman, and his mother, Carolyn, a teacher. It was there that he met numerous lifelong collaborators, including Chad Hugo, his producing partner in the Neptunes, a duo as important to the sound of hip-hop over the past 30 years as the Funk Brothers were to Motown in the 1960s. A dedicated polymath who shifts between styles, genres and media, Williams is his best, most creative self in the presence of water. He grew up in a housing project called Atlantis, right by the beach; today, he holds an annual music and art festival in Virginia Beach called Something in the Water. And when he's not in Miami on Biscayne Bay, he spends his time in Paris, where he has a music studio at the LVMH headquarters overlooking the Seine.
At top: "This was taken in Los Angeles last year, a few months before the Louis Vuitton announcement. Being a producer and a creative director are similar. I can go from apparel to drums, from trunks to melodies. Within my design studio, I have a section allocated to music, so I go back and forth all day."
Left and right: "I wanted to work with [the American artist] Henry Taylor [whose paintings, one of which is shown here, were embroidered onto garments and bags from Williams's first collection for Louis Vuitton]. It's not lost on me that this appointment was given to another Black man from America. This is pivotal for us, you know, after Virgil, our brother who's gone back up to the stars. I think it's important that we continue to tell interesting stories. I don't have an agenda -- I am the agenda. I want not only people who look like me but people who don't look like me to be inspired by this moment. And working with an artist like Henry Taylor helps tell that story."
Left: "This was taken at a Chanel show in Africa last year. [Williams was a brand ambassador from 2014 to 2022.] We went to Dakar, Senegal, and I had on a fresh pair of [Adidas] Sambas. Years ago, I'd asked Karl [Lagerfeld, Chanel's longtime creative director who died in 2019] to take the house to Africa, and he said we would get to it, but he passed before we got a chance to."
Center: "My oldest son [Rocket, pictured here with Williams at Disney World in 2012] makes beats. We [Pharrell and his wife, the model and fashion designer Helen Williams] also have triplets. It's a triple handful. We say it's beautifully intense and intensely beautiful."
Right: "We turned a house in Miami into a studio. I have no idea [when we set it up], but it's been a couple of years. I'm terrible with chronology: I live in the moment, but I process things in the future and I get lost in the past. In Miami, it's all about the weather and the humidity. It's always been very inspiring to me. It's fun to record there on the water, which sounds like a flex, but it's really not."
Left: "With this Vuitton appointment, it's like I'm a perpetual student. If I'm the king of anything, it's the king of being a pupil. I knew I wanted to work on Damier [the brand's signature checkerboard pattern]. I've always loved pixelated camo, so we did it with Damier, leveling it up, and that's how we got Damouflage [pictured here on a model during a fitting earlier this year]. Being surrounded by so many talented people is the best. I mean, I'm an Aries, so I've always been superimpulsive. But without the resources and the people, I'd be just like every other person with a great idea."
Center: "As a kid, I listened to a lot of records my aunt would play in her house. Parliament-Funkadelic had songs that blew my mind. I also think [Kraftwerk's sixth studio album] 'Trans-Europe Express' (1977) happened around that time. Atlantis was like this neighborhood in a bubble. It's where music was everything and, when certain songs came on, it was like a musical happening right there in front of you. You could either be a part of it or you could stand back and watch."
Right: "This picture was taken earlier this year at Le Café V [a Louis Vuitton cafe in Osaka]. Japan is my favorite place. On my 50th orbit, I had a birthday party organized by [the Tokyo-based artistic director of Kenzo and hip-hop producer] Nigo. One of the most amazing gifts is his presence in my life. Twenty years ago, I needed to go to Japan to record something, so Nigo arranged for me to come to his studio, which is basically a compound on five floors of a building. One floor is a showroom, one is a photo studio, another is a recording studio, and I was like, 'Wow, this guy lives what's in his head.' That changed me. I was so used to bragging because that was the world I came from. And then I met Nigo, who barely said anything. He didn't have to. Humility is in the Tokyo air like the humidity in Virginia."
Left: "I think this picture is from around 1976, so when I was 3 years old. I'm the third of eight kids -- two sisters and five brothers. I want to say 'Star Wars' (1977) came out around then. I just remember being back in the Atlantis apartments in Virginia Beach. I didn't know life was as hard as it was, because it was fun to me."
Center: "My favorite cartoon as a kid was 'Jabberjaw' (1976), and the band he played in was called the Neptunes. So that's where the name [of his songwriting and production duo with Chad Hugo] came from."
Right: "I love watching movies to escape. But the funny thing is, I couldn't tell you from what. My favorite movie is 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind' (1977). I relate to Richard Dreyfuss's character and the alien."
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: ERIK IAN; DRE ROJAS; LAUNCHMETRICS/SPOTLIGHT; HENRY TAYLOR, "PORTRAIT OF MY COUSIN GF: DANA GALLEGOS," 2020, ACRYLIC ON CANVAS © HENRY TAYLOR, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND HAUSER & WIRTH. PHOTO: FREDRIK NILSEN; COURTESY OF HELEN WILLIAMS; DRE ROJAS; COLUMBIA/PHOTOFEST; KOURTRAJMEUF; VINYLS/ALAMY; HANNA-BARBERA/PHOTOFEST; SAM HAYES; DR. CAROLYN WILLIAMS) This article appeared in print on page M290, M291.

Subject: Record producers; Music; Humidity; Fashion designers

Location: Africa; United States--US; Virginia; Japan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/16/t-magazine/pharrell-williams-louis-vuitton.html

Title: Pharrell Williams:   [TStyle ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: M2.90

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

column: Profile In Style

Section: M2

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182182

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pharrell-williams/docview/2853182182/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Old-School Fans Celebrate That Hip-Hop Didn't Stop: [Style Desk]

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/old-school-fans-celebrate-that-hip-hop-didnt-stop/docview/2851701361/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The start of hip-hop dates to Aug. 11, 1973, when DJ Kool Herc created continuous break-beats by working two turntables during a party in a rec room at 1520 Sedgwick Ave in the Bronx. On Friday night, exactly 50 years later, a concert was held at Yankee Stadium -- roughly a mile and a half from hip-hop's birthplace -- to honor the occasion, featuring Run-DMC, Slick Rick, Ice Cube, Snoop Dogg, Lil' Kim and Nas. DJ Kool Herc, 68, also appeared onstage to accept an award.
Before the show, which was billed as "Hip Hop 50 Live," the scene outside the stadium was heavy with fans of the sounds from the '70s, '80s and '90s. Middle-aged couples on date nights arrived wearing matching Adidas track suits. A man strolled the promenade carrying a boombox and wearing a Kangol hat. Hawkers sold pins with pictures of Biz Markie and The Notorious B.I.G.
Outside a McDonald's opposite the stadium, a street musician performed Tupac Shakur hits, while an in-line skater entertained the crowd with basketball tricks. Stationed beside a subway entrance was an 8-year-old rapper, Hetep BarBoy, who, accompanied by his father, was selling CDs of his album. "I prefer old-school hip-hop," Hetep said. "I like Rakim because of his flow and the clean message he was putting into the world. He rapped about positivity, and that's also what my music is about."
In the edited interviews below, attendees reflected on hip-hop's 50th. Some recalled witnessing the park jams and parties that defined the genre's beginnings.
Tamika Talbot
Pick a side: Old-school hip-hop or new? Old-school all day. I was at the rap battles in the parks. Hip-hop came from the dirt. You had to be a lyrical assassin then. If you weren't, you were trash. I feel if you have something to say now, you're seen as wack. Back then your flow had to be intact.
Your old-school hero? Big Daddy Kane was once the prince of hip-hop. He had crazy lyrical flow. He was super-duper fly. He was unmatched.
Richard Byars
Which old-school hero are you here to see? Ice Cube. To me he represents the beginning of hip-hop's renaissance. But I'd never use the term "old-school." I call artists like him "true-school."
What's a significant hip-hop history moment for you? The public access television show "Video Music Box" was essential to hip-hop's growth in the 1980s. All the forefathers appeared on that show.
Adam Jenkins
Old-school or new? I saw the birth of hip-hop as a kid growing up in the Bronx. I was at those Sedgwick Avenue parties. I saw Cold Crush Brothers and Afrika Bambaataa. So this all goes way back for me. It's amazing to see how hip-hop has become a global force, but when I was a kid, it was just about having fun in the park. It wasn't about how nice your car was or how much money you had.
Do you ever boast about seeing hip-hop's birth? I do sometimes tell young people that I saw the beginning of all this, but it usually falls on deaf ears, and they don't get it. But that kind of response is also part of hip-hop to me, because it's a genre that's supposed to be always evolving from its past.
Lesley Smith
Old-school or new? For me it's still all about Melle Mel, the Sugarhill Gang and Kurtis Blow. They're the originals. Back in the day hip-hop was wholesome and fun. I don't even understand it now.
Primo Gonzalez
What's a significant hip-hop history moment for you? I remember seeing "Beat Street" in the movie theater in the 1980s. It was a world I already knew from seeing B-Boys on University Avenue, but for many people, that was the first time they ever saw break dancing culture.
Mary Olivette Bookman
Who do you consider a pioneer? Missy Elliott. She had something to say. What she was doing was sonically unique, and her skill and individuality were always immediately visible in her rap style.
Who are you here to see tonight? I'm here to see them all. I want to see hip-hop history. Tonight is music education for me.
Gearni Thompson
What's a significant hip-hop moment for you? I can still remember riding in a car with my friends when I heard "Rapper's Delight" by the Sugarhill Gang for the first time.
Old-school or new? I love the old-school. I feel like the new school is about all the wrong stuff, like buying jewelry and expensive cars. Grandmaster Flash was reaching the kids in a good way. Old-school rap was about community and where we came from. It changed our lives.
Ricardo Varona
Your old-school hero? Snoop Dogg. When he and Dr. Dre came out with "The Chronic" it shook the world. Everyone followed their way after that.
What's a significant hip-hop moment for you? An important artist who I feel is too little known now is Lisa Lisa & Cult Jam. Her hit "Can You Feel the Beat" was impossible to not want to sing and dance to when it came out.
Wisdom McClurkin
Who do you want to see tonight? Lil' Kim. She's a pioneer. She's from the block. She's the queen of everything. She was the blueprint. If it wasn't for her, there would be no Nicki Minaj.
William Gaines
Old-school or new? I grew up in the boogie-down Bronx, so I went to all those legendary park jams. They'd hook up the turntables and speakers, and the cops would eventually come to turn it all off. You'd see Biz Markie and Doug E. Fresh. It was a good time. It all started from nothing and became something. But it all began with us just saying to each other: "Yo, they're having a party on Sedgwick Avenue tonight. Want to go?"
Photograph The scene outside of Yankee Stadium this past Friday night, where "Hip Hop 50 Live," a 50th-anniversary concert, was held. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET) This article appeared in print on page D5.

Subject: Rap music

People: DJ Kool Herc; Snoop Dogg (Calvin Broadus)

Company / organization: Name: Sugarhill Gang; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/13/style/hip-hop-50-concert.html

Title: Old-School Fans Celebrate That Hip-Hop Didn't Stop:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 17, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2851701361

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/old-school-fans-celebrate-that-hip-hop-didnt-stop/docview/2851701361/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harden's Unhappy. Again. So Are Sixers Fans. Again.: [Sports Desk]

Author: Sopan Deb

Publication info: Sopan Deb. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hardens-unhappy-again-so-are-sixers-fans/docview/2850989628/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Discontent is not new for star players, but it has become very public for the Philadelphia 76ers at a moment when their fans are running out of patience.
For Philadelphia 76ers fans, this is The Bad Place.
"Disgust among Sixers fans is at one of the highest levels I have ever seen here in Philadelphia," Joe DeCamara, a Philadelphia radio host, said in a recent interview.
A confluence of misfortune and bad strategy has almost left the team where it was in the mid-2000s at the end of the Allen Iverson era: adrift with no path to contend for a championship. Whatever plans Daryl Morey, the team's president of basketball operations, had when he took over in 2020 seem to have unraveled.
"We feel like people are underrating the Sixers right now," Morey told reporters at his introductory news conference, "but we need to go out there and prove it."
What has been proved, in fact, is quite the opposite, punctuated recently when James Harden, the team's second-best player, publicly trashed Morey as part of his quest to force a trade to another team.
Discontent is not new for star players, but in the Sixers' case it has become very public at a moment when their fans are at their wits' end. The broader public has developed an appetite for this brand of superstar drama because it pops up every summer, but the Sixers, perhaps more than other N.B.A. teams, are poorly positioned to plea for patience because the organization has put its fans through a decade of stops and starts, including the rebuilding plan known as The Process.
Harden's relationship with the Sixers became a Good News-Bad News situation this summer. The Good: Harden, a 33-year-old guard, opted into the last year of his contract. The Bad: It was on the condition that the Sixers trade him to the Los Angeles Clippers, according to two people familiar with the request but not authorized to discuss it publicly. To make matters worse, videos that emerged on social media this week appeared to show Harden disparaging Morey while speaking to reporters at an Adidas event in China.
"Daryl Morey is a liar and I will never be a part of an organization that he's a part of," Harden said in the videos. Harden's agent and Adidas did not respond to requests from The New York Times seeking to confirm the authenticity of the videos. A Sixers spokesperson declined to comment.
The exact nature of Harden's anger at Morey is unclear, but his displeasure is an extraordinary setback nonetheless. Harden is one of the greatest offensive players ever, and few defenders can guard him alone because of his combination of ball handling and size. He is one of a small number of players who can will a team to victory by themselves -- when he chooses.
Harden and Joel Embiid, the star center who is Philadelphia's best player and the reigning Most Valuable Player Award winner, share some of the responsibility for the Sixers' lack of success. They often underperform at crucial moments in the postseason, and did so again this spring, when the Sixers lost to Boston in the second round.
This has brought even more pessimism to Philadelphia, where sports-related despair is as essential to the city's identity as the hoagie.
"As a fan, it's simple: I want the team to win," said Amos Lee, a folk singer-songwriter and avid Sixers fan. "I want them to spend all of the money and get all of the best players and put the coolest people on the team and that's it. But I don't know what this franchise is."
Lee added, "It has been for a long time really poorly managed."
The Sixers have not made it to the Eastern Conference finals since 2001, and Doc Rivers, who was hired as head coach a few weeks before Morey joined the team, had a history of falling short in the playoffs. Still, Morey kept him for three seasons. And after Ben Simmons, the star point guard drafted two years after Embiid, demanded a trade out of Philadelphia, Morey resisted before swinging a trade for Harden, who was trying to force his way off his second straight team. Now Philadelphia is his third.
According to a person familiar with Morey's thinking, the plan remains to bring Harden back after the Sixers ended trade negotiations with the Clippers when they could not reach what they believed would be a suitable deal.
That is not a plan -- that's unjustified hope. Harden has shown that he is willing to hold out or loaf on the floor if he does not get the trade he wants. And even if Harden returns, the team did not make any real improvements this off-season and, in fact, lost several rotation players to free agency. If the 76ers could not get out of the second round last year, how will they do next season with a less-talented team and an unhappy Harden?
If Harden does go, he will be the latest in a string of Sixers stars who have left the team under acrimonious circumstances, stretching back to Charles Barkley in 1992. Before Simmons and Harden, Iverson was frustrated with the franchise when he was traded in 2006, as was Andre Iguodala when he was traded in 2012.
Morey has long shown little interest in fielding a struggling team. When he was an executive in Houston in 2019, he traded Chris Paul and multiple first-round picks for Russell Westbrook after the Rockets lost in the second round of the Western Conference playoffs. Before that, Morey dismantled a middling Rockets team that included a young Kyle Lowry. Those moves allowed the Rockets in 2012 to acquire the star who would push them toward true contention: Harden.
If Morey decides to hit the eject button on the Embiid and Harden era in Philadelphia, after less than two full seasons, he has shown a willingness to make hard choices. But that requires patience Sixers fans do not have, and asking the team's ownership to accept a near-term regression and financial hit while they are planning for a new arena.
But the clock is not just ticking on what to do about Harden. It is also ticking on Embiid. He said recently that he wanted to win a championship whether it was in Philadelphia "or anywhere else." He later suggested that he was not serious, though that has not eased the anxiety of some Sixers fans.
On one hand, fans could understand his restlessness. He has endured several different front office heads, a coaching carousel and unhappy stars without even a conference finals appearance to show for it. But on the other hand, those same coaches, executives and teammates have had to endure his disappointing playoff performances, too.
"They have not done a great job around him," said Spike Eskin, co-host of "The Rights To Ricky Sanchez," a Sixers fan podcast that is unaffiliated with the team. "The organization has been a mess for the entirety of his career. But he is as much to blame for their lack of success in the playoffs as anybody is."
But for now, Morey does not have many options. That is partly on him. The best option in a sea of bad ones may be to engage in some wishful thinking: Maybe Harden shows up to camp in great shape and reconsiders his desire to leave. Maybe Embiid puts together another M.V.P.-level season and does not get hurt, as he so often has.
Maybe they can even get out of the second round.
Photograph James Harden (1) wants to be traded from Philadelphia. His standoff with the 76ers' president, Daryl Morey, could hurt the team's chances of retaining its best player, Joel Embiid, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DERIK HAMILTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS ADAM GLANZMAN/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B11.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Athletic drafts & trades; Professional basketball

People: Embiid, Joel; Harden, James

Company / organization: Name: Philadelphia 76ers; NAICS: 711211; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/15/sports/basketball/james-harden-daryl-morey-philadelphia-76ers.html

Title: Harden's Unhappy. Again. So Are Sixers Fans. Again.:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 16, 2023

column: Pro Basketball

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850989628

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hardens-unhappy-again-so-are-sixers-fans/docview/2850989628/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This Is the Music America Needs: [Op-Ed]

Author: Stockman, Farah

Publication info: Stockman, Farah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-is-music-america-needs/docview/2847614717/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Predictably, Jason Aldean's song "Try That in a Small Town" jumped to the top of the charts days after liberals accused it of promoting vigilantism and racism. Reasonable people can disagree about whether that was Mr. Aldean's intent, but this much is clear: When half the country condemns something, the other half rushes to praise it. The free publicity, complete with an online post by Donald Trump, spurred a surge in record sales. In this polarized era, division sells.
But music should create social cohesion, not division. I recently spent two days with Gangstagrass, a band that is making music that actually unites us, and reflecting on why it isn't better known. Gangstagrass combines hip-hop and bluegrass, with weirdly addictive results. A version of the group produced the theme song of the TV drama "Justified." (The song, "Long Hard Times to Come," was nominated for an Emmy in 2010.)
The multiracial band was created by Rench, a Brooklyn-based musician and producer. It also includes R-Son the Voice of Reason, who sported a Phillies baseball cap onstage in homage to his hometown the night I saw them; Dolio the Sleuth, a Pensacola, Fla.-born M.C. who dressed in white from his Kangol cap down to his Adidas; Dan Whitener, a banjo player from New Jersey who wore a shirt that looked like the American flag; and B.E. Farrow, a fiddler from Omaha who donned a straw hat. Name aside, they aren't gangsters. When he isn't making music, Mr. Whitener is a stay-at-home dad. R-Son hails from a family of cops. Dolio attended M.I.T.
It's easy to dismiss them -- before you hear them -- as a gimmick or novelty act. But those who are lucky enough to stumble on their live shows are likely to get sucked in by the oddball energy. They have die-hard fans who came for the bluegrass and stayed for the rap, and vice versa. Instead of pitting rural America against urban America, the way Mr. Aldean's song does, Gangstagrass tries to appeal to both at the same time.
Rench told me that he hopes the music helps people reduce their fear of one another, "because the rise of authoritarianism and fascism really depends on people being separated."
Their shows have become a rare place where people from across the political spectrum mix, party together and sometimes become friends. In 2021, Rench explained his vision of using music to "bring a message that America can find common ground" during an audition for NBC's "America's Got Talent." In July, they served as artists in residence at the national convention of Braver Angels, an organization that aims to "depolarize" the country by fostering honest conversations and debate.
I attended parts of the convention (and moderated a panel on the media) and was struck by two things at once: the positive energy that both Gangstagrass and Braver Angels give off -- and how much it runs against the grain of what's trending in the rest of America.
Braver Angels is trying to spark a social movement that will hold the country together during the dark times that are sure to come with the presidential campaigns and beyond. It's not about trying to change deeply held beliefs or pushing partisans to meet in the "mushy middle." Instead, the aim is to make sure disagreements are based on reality, not lazy stereotypes; that people see the humanity of those they disagree with. It's about giving people tools to coexist and providing a space where it is safe to interact with those from the "other side." Delegates wore colored lanyards around their necks -- red, blue or yellow -- advertising their political leanings. At lunchtime, the cafeteria filled with different-colored lanyards, sitting together.
During one plenary session, Gangstagrass band members ate sandwiches in the green room while more than 600 people converged on a ballroom at Gettysburg College, not far from the Civil War battlefield, to hear speeches about a union that needs saving once again.
"There are many people looking at this country thinking, 'There is no way that these people can hold together much longer,"' said John Wood Jr., a leader of Braver Angels and past vice chairman of the Republican Party of Los Angeles County, speaking to the crowd.
Gangstagrass and other musicians were invited to the convention in the hopes that they would help attract a younger, more diverse crowd to the cause. At first, Braver Angels' president, David Blankenhorn, was skeptical of the idea. "People don't come here for performances," he said. But younger staff members convinced him that music can move people in a way that debate and dialogue cannot. Every movement needs an anthem to help spread its message, after all. Who could imagine the civil rights movement without "We Shall Overcome" or the labor movement without "Which Side Are You On?"
Music makes people meet "at a heart level, and not just the head level," Micah Hendler, Braver Angels' co-director of music, told him.
The convention was Gangstagrass's first foray as a band into an explicitly political space. When Rench started mixing fiddle music and rap back in 2006, politics was the furthest thing from his mind. He liked the idea of combining what seemed to be two diametrically opposite things. But mostly, he just thought it sounded cool.
Over time, Rench told me, he came to realize that hip-hop and bluegrass aren't opposites at all. Look under the hood of American music and you'll discover that they share common themes -- being broke, going to prison, disappointing Mama and finding strength to carry on. They're about improvising and one-upping each other on a front porch or a street corner. They are the music of poor white and poor Black people -- two groups that the powerful, throughout history, have tried to keep separate at all costs.
During the convention, Gangstagrass held a workshop on depolarizing American music that explained how the music industry created genres during Jim Crow, artificially separating "hillbilly" music from "race" music for marketing purposes. Previously, Black and white musicians in the South played many common songs, according to the book "Segregating Sound: Inventing Folk and Pop Music in the Age of Jim Crow," by Karl Hagstrom Miller. That artificial separation continues to this day, as algorithms suggest more hip-hop to hip-hop fans and more bluegrass to bluegrass fans. Bands like Gangstagrass, who defy categories, are often rendered invisible.
Our two-party political system operates in much the same way. It funnels people into boxes, for marketing purposes. Unless a news item fans the outrage of one side or the other, it risks falling through the cracks completely. Voters who defy categorization -- we misfits who make up half of the American people -- aren't well served by the process.
It's not clear whether groups like Braver Angels and Gangstagrass, which are trying to break the toxic cycle of polarization, will ever become household names. Both rely on personal contact -- live shows and one-on-one conversations -- to spread their message. In a country of 335 million people, their efforts can feel quixotic.
One of the most interesting things they did at the convention was bring about two dozen musicians from across the country -- half liberal, half conservative -- together with Gangstagrass to collectively write songs about education, health care and representative democracy that would be performed onstage the following night. The exercise forced them to quickly distill the essence of what they could agree on.
The democracy group settled quickly on the idea that everyone deserves a voice and a vote. Susanna Laird, a mother of four home-schooled children from Frederick, Md., dashed off some lyrics about a voter who had been turned away from the polls. R-Son came up with some more lyrics. Others suggested a beat and chords. In the health care group, the conversation about policy turned to people's own experiences in hospitals. They discovered that they all felt the same thing -- that "the system is not navigable; it's a maze," Amy Teutenberg, of Milwaukee, told me. By the next morning, they were rehearsing a deeply personal song about feeling lost in the system. "I feel like something's broken," wailed the refrain, which stuck in my head for days.
It was the education group that struggled the most to find common ground. During a so-called fishbowl exercise, conservatives sat in the middle of the room, speaking openly about schools, while liberals listened.
Marya Djalal, 54, a teacher from the Gettysburg area, opened up about how her Christian faith had motivated her work. When it came time to brainstorm lyrics, someone suggested a line about a child molded by "the Maker's hands," a reference to God. This set off an intense debate about the role of religion in public schools. Then R-Son dropped in on the workshop and warned that public schools should be careful about promoting one faith over another. The group took the line about "the Maker's hands" out.
Ms. Djalal felt crushed.
She blamed it on a clash of culture -- a lot of liberals aren't used to talking about God. But it still bothered her. "I felt troubled in my heart all night about it," Ms. Djalal told me afterward. "I was almost like, 'I can't sing this song.' It felt flat."
The next morning, she brought up the subject again. The group compromised. Instead of referencing God, they used the phrase "Braver Angels," which could be interpreted as heavenly beings or the humans in the convention hall.
The night of the concert, everyone sang. Some even cried. Mr. Blankenhorn pronounced himself a new believer in live music at conventions. Overheard on the dance floor that night: "I'll bet No Labels doesn't have dancing like this."
The grand finale -- a Gangstagrass set -- got everyone on their feet. As Mr. Whitener's banjo quibbled with Mr. Farrow's fiddle, an elderly couple clasped hands and began to whirl. The rap stopped them in their tracks. Then they looked at each other, shrugged, and started dancing again.
"It's pretty amazing to see a bunch of people I didn't know before a few days ago dancing to a band I had never heard of -- and now I couldn't imagine my life without the music and this movement," Andrew Garrett, a graduate student at N.Y.U. who worked on the education song, told me. "It's an amazing community that came out of nowhere but actually feels like it's going to sustain."
I hope it does. I don't know if this music -- or this movement -- could ever become as popular as Jason Aldean. I'm not sure young people will ever embrace it. (Hip-hop, after all, turns 50 this month, like R-Son.) What I can say for sure is that this music provided comfort and joy to people who want to unite the country. On that night, in that ballroom, that was all that mattered.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
At the Braver Angels convention in Pennsylvania in July, a group of conservative and liberal musicians, top, gathered to write and perform a song with lyrics they could agree on. At right, members of the group Gangstagrass, clockwise from top left: R-Son the Voice of Reason; Dolio the Sleuth; Dan Whitener; Emily Bernstein Messner, the band's manager; Rench; and B.E. Farrow. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUGLAS SEGARS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Public schools; Political conventions; Bands; Rap music; Angels; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Political parties; Music

Company / organization: Name: Gangstagrass; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/05/opinion/gangstagrass-music-america.html

Title: This Is the Music America Needs:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 9, 2023

column: Farah Stockman

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2847614717

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-is-music-america-needs/docview/2847614717/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kanye West Returns to the Stage With Travis Scott: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Sisario, Ben

Publication info: Sisario, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-west-returns-stage-with-travis-scott/docview/2847614680/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The rapper, now known as Ye, had not performed live since a series of antisemitic comments last year led to rebukes in music and fashion.
Ye, the rap star formerly known as Kanye West, on Monday made his first concert appearance after a series of antisemitic remarks on social media and in interviews last year, which led to his alienation from the music industry and loss of lucrative fashion deals with Adidas, Gap and Balenciaga.
Ye's return to the stage came as a guest during a livestreamed album-release concert by Travis Scott at Circus Maximus, the park in central Rome that in ancient times was the site of a giant stadium where chariot races and other entertainment took place.
Scott, a protégé of Ye's, brought his mentor out during a concert to celebrate his chart-topping new album, "Utopia." With Scott dressed in white and Ye all in black -- initially with a hood and mask, which didn't stay on for long -- they performed two Ye songs together: "Praise God," from his 2021 album "Donda," and "Can't Tell Me Nothing," a Kanye West classic from his 2007 album "Graduation."
"There is no 'Utopia' without Kanye West," Scott told the crowd. "There is no Travis Scott without Kanye West. There is no Rome without Kanye West."
After years of erratic and controversial behavior, Ye finally crossed a line with the music and fashion industries last fall, after he showed up at Paris Fashion Week in a shirt that read "White Lives Matter," and then tweeted that he would go "death con 3 On JEWISH PEOPLE." That led to his expulsion from social media, his ejection from the Creative Artists Agency and the loss of his Yeezy brand sneaker and fashion design partnerships. The deal with Adidas had been especially valuable, contributing more than 10 percent of the $ 2 billion in profit that the company made in 2021.
Despite widespread condemnations, Ye doubled down on his comments. Last December, he joined "Infowars," the online talk show hosted by Alex Jones, the conspiracy theorist who has been ordered to pay nearly $ 1.5 billion for promulgating lies about the Sandy Hook school shooting in 2012. On that show, Ye said, "I love Jewish people, but I also love Nazis," and "I do love Hitler."
Ye had largely kept a low profile since then, though last week Twitter restored Ye's account. It had been suspended a day after the Infowars interview, with Elon Musk, the owner of Twitter -- which has now been rebranded as X -- saying that Ye had "violated our rule against incitement to violence."
Before the Rome appearance, Ye's last concert was in Miami in February 2022, promoting his album "Donda 2."
Photograph Ye, near left, joined Travis Scott at Circus Maximus in Rome on Monday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPLASHNEWS) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Antisemitism; Jewish people; Musical performances; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

People: West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08 /08/arts/music/kanye-west-performs-travis-scott.html

Title: Kanye West Returns to the Stage With Travis Scott:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 9, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847614680

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kanye-west-returns-stage-with-travis-scott/docview/2847614680/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Honoring the Dancer Who Wouldn't Stop: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Kourlas, Gia

Publication info: Kourlas, Gia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/honoring-dancer-who-wouldnt-stop/docview/2847191092/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The killing of the dancer and choreographer at a Brooklyn gas station is a stark reminder that some forms of expression are still seen as threatening.
That a fight over a dancing body, vibrant and free, led to a killing is still hard to believe. No -- as a crowd chanted at a Brooklyn gas station on Friday night -- vogueing is not a crime.
The memorial ball protest, called "Vogue as an Act of Resistance," was full of bodies -- stylish, of all sizes and shapes, young and old. But missing was the body that mattered the most: O'Shae Sibley's. The 28-year-old dancer and choreographer was fatally stabbed July 29 after vogueing to Beyoncé's "Renaissance" in the gas station's parking lot when, the police said, several men had told him to stop and yelled homophobic slurs at him.
"It is truly painful to have to walk up here, to literally see the area where his blood was taken," Qween Jean, a costume designer and activist, said, speaking through a megaphone. "The stain is still here! They do not care what happens to our bodies."
Sibley's story should be familiar by now: After returning from a day at the beach, Sibley and his friends stopped at the gas station in Midwood to fill up their car; while they pumped gas, they danced to Beyoncé. At that point, the police said, a group of men told them to stop dancing, using anti-gay slurs. One of them stabbed Sibley, who died that night. (A 17-year-old has been charged with second-degree murder.)
The bodies that Qween Jean referred to are those of L.G.B.T.Q. people, who continue to face regular discrimination. How can they move through the world with ease, much less dance through it? That watching Sibley -- vibrant, celebrating the gift of being alive by vogueing to Beyoncé on a hot summer night -- would lead to anything but smiles is heartbreaking.
But Sibley's death is a stark reminder that his kind of expressiveness can still be seen as threatening. He was a gay man whose ballroom category was "vogue fem." When it comes to male dancing, there are unspoken rules about what is acceptable, what slides through the cracks and what, in certain public spaces, is deemed dangerous.
Sibley didn't seem to want to hide his light. He wasn't interested in toning himself down, in moving through the world with an inauthentic self. That was part of his inherent grace, power and, by all accounts, loveliness: his way of carrying himself and his body in the world. But what his aura meant before his killing isn't the same as what it means now.
Robert Garland, the artistic director of Dance Theater of Harlem who, like Sibley, is from Philadelphia, recently presented a ballet at Lincoln Center. One moment in particular -- a male soloist pays homage to John Carlos, a runner who stood on the podium of the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico City with a raised fist -- reminds him of Sibley.
"O'Shae put his body on the line," Garland said in an interview. "And his expression was turned into resistance. It didn't start out that way. He was just being who he was."
Because of the way he died -- and the way that he was dancing when he died -- Sibley's body is now an act of resistance. That has much to do with vogue, a language that grew out of the Harlem ballroom scene of the 1960s. It's more than a dance form -- it's a community, a way of being and of summoning true selfhood. It explores, boldly and beautifully, issues of race and gender. It is a way to have a family (chosen), a home, a place of safety.
Sibley studied other forms of dance -- he trained at Philadanco, also known as the Philadelphia Dance Company, formed by Joan Myers Brown -- and in May, he performed at the Ailey Spirit Gala, but he will probably be most remembered as a vogue artist.
On Friday, the art and the act of dancing, ways to release pleasure and pain, were palpable at the ball protest, which grew from tearful remembrances to louder chants for justice and, ultimately, a vogue celebration. It took convincing, but the crowd, which had spilled into the streets, parted enough to create a runway or at least brief pockets of space open enough for a mini stage. Gliding down the runway was Jason Rodriguez, a vogue artist who was featured on "Pose" and who had seen Sibley just two weeks ago in conjunction with a video shoot he arranged with Adidas.
"I felt it was very empowering for me to have been there, like reclaiming what was taken," Rodriguez said later in an interview. "I think it's like washing away what was left there and reinvigorating it with the statement that it is correct to utilize your body however you like. We choose to use our body and move in a feminine manner to be responsive and to be expressive."
Members of New York's experimental dance scene were there on Friday to show their support, along with Honey Balenciaga, the phenom currently on tour with Beyoncé. As dancers spoke with their bodies, the gas station -- under the shadow of luxury condominiums across the street -- was an unassuming place of catharsis where moving in an expressive manner was not only permissible, but expected.
It was as if Sibley's dancing spirit was no longer alone, that the dance that was stolen from him became bigger, greater, grander: a collective ode to self-expression, the more outspoken the better. Sibley should not have achieved fame this way. But it was fitting that his vogue memorial had echoes of something Josephine Baker once said: "I would like to die, breathless, spent, at the end of a dance."
Photograph A gathering on Friday at the Brooklyn gas station where O'Shae Sibley was killed; a teenager has been charged in his death. (C1); Above, Qween Jean, a costume designer and activist, spoke at the memorial for O'Shae Sibley. "It is truly painful to have to walk up here, to literally see the area where his blood was taken," the activist said. Top and below, room was made for a makeshift runway at the event, and the dancing continued. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Homophobia; Activists; Dance; Sexual orientation discrimination; Murders & murder attempts; Service stations; Stabbings; Dancers & choreographers

Business indexing term: Subject: Service stations

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/07/arts/dance/oshae-sibley-vogueing-memorial.html

Title: Honoring the Dancer Who Wouldn't Stop:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 8, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847191092

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/honoring-dancer-who-wouldnt-stop/docview/2847191092/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

O’Shae Sibley’s ‘Expression Was Turned Into Resistance’

Author: Kourlas, Gia

Publication info: Kourlas, Gia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/o-shae-sibley-s-expression-was-turned-into/docview/2847119833/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — That a fight over a dancing body, vibrant and free, led to a killing is still hard to believe. No — as a crowd chanted at a Brooklyn gas station Friday night — vogueing is not a crime.
The memorial ball protest, called “Vogue as an Act of Resistance,” was full of bodies — stylish, of all sizes and shapes, young and old. But missing was the body that mattered the most: O’Shae Sibley’s. The 28-year-old dancer and choreographer was fatally stabbed July 29 after vogueing to Beyoncé’s “Renaissance” in the gas station’s parking lot when, police said, several men had told him to stop and yelled homophobic slurs at him.
“It is truly painful to have to walk up here, to literally see the area where his blood was taken,” Qween Jean, a costume designer and activist, said, speaking through a megaphone. “The stain is still here! They do not care what happens to our bodies.”
Sibley’s story should be familiar by now: After returning from a day at the beach, Sibley and his friends stopped at the gas station in Midwood to fill up their car; while they pumped gas, they danced to Beyoncé. At that point, police said, a group of men told them to stop dancing, using anti-gay slurs. One of them stabbed Sibley, who died that night. (A 17-year-old has been charged with second-degree murder.)
The bodies that Qween Jean referred to are those of LGBTQ people, who continue to face regular discrimination. How can they move through the world with ease, much less dance through it? That watching Sibley — vibrant, celebrating the gift of being alive by vogueing to Beyoncé on a hot summer night — would lead to anything but smiles is heartbreaking.
But Sibley’s death is a stark reminder that his kind of expressiveness can still be seen as threatening. He was a gay man whose ballroom category was “vogue fem.” When it comes to male dancing, there are unspoken rules about what is acceptable, what slides through the cracks and what, in certain public spaces, is deemed dangerous.
Sibley didn’t seem to want to hide his light. He wasn’t interested in toning himself down, in moving through the world with an inauthentic self. That was part of his inherent grace, power and, by all accounts, loveliness: his way of carrying himself and his body in the world. But what his aura meant before his killing isn’t the same as what it means now.
Robert Garland, artistic director of Dance Theater of Harlem who, like Sibley, is from Philadelphia, recently presented a ballet at Lincoln Center. One moment in particular — a male soloist pays homage to John Carlos, a runner who stood on the podium of the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico City with a raised fist — reminds him of Sibley.
“O’Shae put his body on the line,” Garland said in an interview. “And his expression was turned into resistance. It didn’t start out that way. He was just being who he was.”
Because of the way he died — and the way that he was dancing when he died — Sibley’s body is now an act of resistance. That has much to do with vogue, a language that grew out of the Harlem ballroom scene of the 1960s. It’s more than a dance form — it’s a community, a way of being and of summoning true selfhood. It explores, boldly and beautifully, issues of race and gender. It is a way to have a family (chosen), a home, a place of safety.
Sibley studied other forms of dance — he trained at Philadanco, also known as the Philadelphia Dance Company, formed by Joan Myers Brown — and in May, he performed at the Ailey Spirit Gala, but he will probably be most remembered as a vogue artist.
On Friday, the art and the act of dancing, ways to release pleasure and pain, were palpable at the ball protest, which grew from tearful remembrances to louder chants for justice and, ultimately, a vogue celebration. It took convincing, but the crowd, which had spilled into the streets, parted enough to create a runway or at least brief pockets of space open enough for a mini stage. Gliding down the runway was Jason Rodriguez, a vogue artist who was featured on “Pose” and who had seen Sibley just two weeks ago in conjunction with a video shoot he arranged with Adidas.
“I felt it was very empowering for me to have been there, like reclaiming what was taken,” Rodriguez said later in an interview. “I think it’s like washing away what was left there and reinvigorating it with the statement that it is correct to utilize your body however you like. We choose to use our body and move in a feminine manner to be responsive and to be expressive.”
Members of New York’s experimental dance scene were there Friday to show their support, along with Honey Balenciaga, the phenom currently on tour with Beyoncé. As dancers spoke with their bodies, the gas station — under the shadow of luxury condominiums across the street — was an unassuming place of catharsis where moving in an expressive manner was not only permissible, but expected.
It was as if Sibley’s dancing spirit was no longer alone, that the dance that was stolen from him became bigger, greater, grander: a collective ode to self-expression, the more outspoken the better. Sibley should not have achieved fame this way. But it was fitting that his vogue memorial had echoes of something Josephine Baker once said: “I would like to die, breathless, spent, at the end of a dance.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Homophobia; Community; Dance; Sexual orientation discrimination; Murders & murder attempts; Service stations; Stabbings

Business indexing term: Subject: Service stations

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Police Department (Nyc); Gibney Dance; Baker, Josephine (1906 75); Brooklyn (Nyc); Black People; Automobile Service And Charging Stations; Philadanco; Lincoln Center For The Performing Arts; Philadelphia (Pa); New York Times; Arts; Vogue; Brown, Joan Myers; Assaults; Entertainment; Rodriguez, Jason A; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Race And Ethnicity; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Dance Theater Of Harlem; Dancing; Garland, Robert; Mexico City (Mexico); Philadelphia Dan ce Company; Art; Discrimination; Theater; Olympic Games (1968); Mexico; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Adidas Ag; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Midwood (Brooklyn, Ny)

Title: O’Shae Sibley’s ‘Expression Was Turned Into Resistance’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 7, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-07T23:24:30Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847119833

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/o-shae-sibley-s-expression-was-turned-into/docview/2847119833/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2846773270/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I'll be visiting Europe for the first time this summer and need advice for stylish walking shoes. I mainly wear dresses, but if I wear ballet flats while walking all day, my feet tend to swell up. Do you have any suggestions for a more closed shoe that wouldn't out me as l'américaine?
Jennifer, Seattle By your shoes, they shall know you. I'm not entirely kidding. Shoes may not be the windows to the soul, but for a long time they were the source of national stereotype.
Germans, it was said, were the travelers in sandals and white athletic socks. You could tell an Italian banker because he was the one in brown shoes, no matter what color his suit. The British, on the other hand, went around intoning "no brown in town." American tourists wore sneakers.
But that was then! Between the explosion of sneaker culture, the "fashionization" of Birkenstocks and the general rise of comfort clothing, those old lines have started to blur. If Hakeem Jeffries, the House minority leader, can wear sneakers to a meeting in the Oval Office, and Serena Williams can wear them to the Met Gala, Americans can wear them in Europe. Europeans too.
Indeed, sneakers and Birks are by no means the giveaways they once were. They are pretty much an integral part of every wardrobe, not to mention every designer collection on Avenue Montaigne. So don't be so quick to dismiss them.
According to Dana Thomas, an author and Times contributor who has lived in Paris for more than two decades, the only footwear that screams "tourist" is Crocs. Also, those shoes so beloved of the outdoor recreation world, Chacos and Keens.
It's not that Chacos and Keens necessarily identify you as American, but they definitely identify you as belonging to a certain tribe of crunchy nonurbanites. Or wannabe nonurbanites. Even if brands like Gucci had a brief flirtation with the whole sector, it's like walking around with a sign over your head flashing, "Which way to Mont Blanc?"
Once upon a time, generalizations could be made about entire genres of shoes and those who wore them, but the situation is now much more nuanced. Sneakers remain the most comfortable footwear for extended city rambles, and to reject them wholesale is to bite the hand that feeds you (or to blister the foot that walks you). But while wearing sneakers will no longer brand you as a tourist, the kind of sneaker you wear does matter.
Jon Caramanica, the resident sneakerhead of The Times, notes that sneaker silhouettes tend to be slimmer in Europe than in the United States, so swap your high-tops for low-top running shoes.
The Adidas Samba or Onitsuka Tiger Mexico 66 tends to trigger thoughts of cool-girl tribes, whereas New Balance 550s send the mind to advertising or creative directors. Vejas spark assumptions of eco-warrior chic. And then there are Supergas, which are favored by both Chiara Ferragni (the Italian equivalent of a Kardashian) and Catherine, the Princess of Wales.
Yup: Italian influencer royalty and British royalty. What more inspiration could you need to put your best foot forward?
Every week in the Open Thread newsletter, The Times's chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, answers a reader's fashion-related question. Sign up at nytimes.com/newsletters.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Athletic shoes; Shoes & boots

Location: Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/04/pageoneplus/07a3_openthread.html

Title: Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846773270

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2846773270/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Roc Marciano: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roc-marciano/docview/2846428237/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: We used to breakdance -- put down our little cardboard, you know, the early days of Run-DMC blasting out the big speakers: "Peter Piper picked peppers." I remember just being a kid walking to the park and hearing it on the bass speakers. Like, it sounds foreign, something I'd never heard before in my life.
Just looking at how they were dressed -- leather gooses and Adidas and suede Pumas -- you really identify with that because that's what you saw dudes in the neighborhoods wearing. Before that, entertainers, you expect to see them in suits -- a little more like costumes.
My first album that I ever had was a Christmas gift, and it was "Follow the Leader." I remember running home from school to the closest spot we could get to -- it was, like, my boy's crib -- because they said the new Rakim video was coming out. The "Let the Rhythm Hit 'Em" video, dude sitting on the Rolls-Royce, it was like a damn movie.
Rakim presented hip-hop in a way where I felt like I could participate. It wasn't in your face with the showmanship. He was more cool and laid back. You could just tell he was rhyming with his inside voice, displaying intelligence. I felt like I could become an M.C.
I wasn't thinking about making songs. Back in the day, it was more like the cypher, battling, who got the best rhymes. At that age, you don't even have beats to make songs. I went to school with Busta's younger brother. I had a reputation around the town for rhyming. So when Busta was starting to develop his own label, when he was first starting Flipmode, he had reached out.
Being around Busta, I learned how hard it is to be successful in the entertainment business. He's literally like a cyborg. He doesn't sleep.
Like, he works every day, in the studio every single night, you know? I was, like, man, at what point do you celebrate being rich and famous? Success isn't a destination, it's a constant voyage.
The internet changed everything. People are sharing music and you can't keep things suppressed like you probably could at one point. You know, it only takes one person you like to post something that they like, and then bang, you know?
The transition when it became more about the internet really benefited me, because around that time I couldn't get a deal with a major label after my Flipmode situation. Like, OK, cool, we don't need the middleman anymore. We could just upload our music and just let the fans decide what they rocking with.
Not only me -- it's helped a bunch of us become heroes. My guy Bronson, Ka, Westside and Griselda, Hommy, Currensy -- I'd say I was instrumental in most of their start-ups. It's just mutual respect. Lil B, you know what I'm saying? That's definitely somebody I linked up with that probably people wouldn't have expected me to be a big fan of. I like that he's fearless.
Young Thug, too. When Thug came on the scene I was, like, Man, this dude's a genius. This is like James Brown 3000! I don't know what he's saying, I just know that sounds funky.
You know, living in New York City most of my life, I've never heard MF Doom on the radio once. And he's a legend. You could see the disconnect. Doom was doing this before all of us, this independent grind.
To a certain degree, I would say Long Island artists are slighted. Rakim, EPMD, De La Soul, MF Doom, myself -- it's a lot of heat coming out of Long Island, you know what I'm saying? And Prodigy is from Long Island. I feel like saying it's unsung would be untrue. But we definitely have a steeper hill to climb than maybe if we were from Brooklyn or Queens.
Photograph ROC MARCIANO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON GALELLA/RON GALELLA COLLECTION, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page AR24.

Subject: Hip hop music

Location: United States--US; Long Island New York

Company / organization: Name: MF Doom; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/arts/06hiphop-Roc-Marciano.html

Title: Roc Marciano:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.24

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2846428237

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roc-marciano/docview/2846428237/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

50 Rappers, 50 Stories

Author: Coscarelli, Joe; Caramanica, Jon

Publication info: Coscarelli, Joe; Caramanica, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/50-rappers-stories/docview/2846387440/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Over five decades, hip-hop has grown from a new art form to a culture-defining superpower. In their own words, 50 influential voices chronicle its evolution.
—
KOOL MOE DEE
The first time I remember being exposed to what we’re calling hip-hop now is Lovebug Starski on the mic at the Renaissance in New York, 138th and 7th Avenue. It was something I felt in my inner being. There was something going on inside me that said, I wanted to be a part of what that was.
Being a child of Malcolm X and Muhammad Ali, that whole revolutionary thought process was part of my DNA. I was pretty let down that the draft was done by the time I was 12, because I so looked forward to the day that I could be like Muhammad Ali. I was looking forward to not enlisting. So when I saw hip-hop, I had the same feeling: I’ll have a platform. That was my primary thought: I get the chance to do my Malcolm X thing on a mic one day. Hip-hop gave me the first inkling of that being possible.
Melle Mel was the first person that made me think that it was possible to take the lyrical content to where I wanted to take it. But Earth, Wind & Fire and Stevie Wonder gave me the inkling that you could actually put lyrics together and make an impact beyond just the music. “Songs in the Key of Life” was the most double-entendre, witty thought process, just in terms of the poetry in the title alone. And Maurice White — forget about it. When I heard the record “Fantasy” — “You will find/Other kind/That has been in search for you” — that was absolute peak metaphor for me. The fact that they were doing that kind of poetry on top of music was my actual genuine, genuine, genuine, genuine inspiration. I would say a calling, quite frankly.
I could not believe that Earth, Wind & Fire felt similar about me that I did about them. We were doing a cruise a couple years back, and they were rushing through the galleys to try to get to my show. When Verdine White broke down the difference in my cadence from the average MC? I was floating.
At one point, we were being belittled and looked down upon: That’s that bibbity-bop hip-hop stuff. But when Public Enemy and Chuck D got to be the center of attention, I was proud to say I was a rapper. “I do what they do.” Public Enemy took us beyond where most people thought we could take it. I make a little analogy that hip-hop has given Black America the chance to experience what white privilege feels like.
SCARFACE
I think my earliest memories were hearing the Sugarhill Gang’s “Rapper’s Delight” in 1979, and then the Soul Sonic Force, “Planet Rock.” I remember Kurtis Blow had a record called “Way Out West” — “Way out West from way back East/Coming from the place you’d expect the least/There came a stranger dressed in black/from a Harlem town a long way back/Had a Stetson hat with a band of gold.” I still remember it ’til this day. That’s the impact Kurtis Blow had on hip-hop.
I started going up to New York in my early teenage years, and started hearing and seeing the real elements of hip-hop, listening to WBLS on the radio. My cousin from uptown would send tapes to me, so I would always have the new hip-hop first.
In Houston, there was a hip-hop show called “Kidz Jamm” that came on 90.9. FM. There was also a local DJ by the name of Darryl Scott. That’s how we really got turned on to hip-hop. The first local artist I heard was Captain Jack. He was a DJ, and he made a record called “Jack It Up.”
I was a DJ first. My main influence was Jam Master Jay, the ultimate of all DJs. Then came the DJ that could rap: Grandmaster Dee from Whodini, right? I could rap, too, so I knew if I ever had to battle Grandmaster Dee I was going to douse his ass. That’s what I prepared my whole DJ career on: battling Grandmaster Dee.
I liked to cut Eric B. & Rakim’s “Eric B. Is President” and the Beastie Boys’ “Hold It Now, Hit It.” I was more the backspin, cut and spin DJ — I got into learning how to transform later. But as time went on I started moving more towards writing rhymes and producing.
The early Geto Boys made a song called “Car Freak,” and I thought they were famous, you know? But I didn’t know the realities of the music business until I got with Jukebox, Ready Red, Bushwick Bill and Willie D. Prince Johnny C had left the group, and when Jukebox left, it was just me, Will and Bill. That’s when we made “Grip It! On That Other Level.” Me and Willie did all the writing, we wrote for Bill.
I always tell people that I’m a hip-hop hybrid of Ice Cube, Chuck D and Big Daddy Kane. I wanted to be able to tell a story like Cube. I wanted to be very lyrical like Kane. And I wanted to have an in-your-face delivery like Chuck. As much respect as I have for Nas and Jay-Z, if it hadn’t been for that previous level of intensity in rhyming, I wouldn’t be me.
I’m just thankful that LL Cool J talked to my mom on the telephone during the New Music Seminar. This was when I first started rapping, a few months before “Mind Playing Tricks on Me.” This was the first time the Geto Boys got the chance to perform in New York, had to be around ’90. I don’t know what my mom and LL talked about, but I was on a pay phone with my mom and I was just so glad. And the Geto Boys got booed!
I think there were some artists booing us. Some of the other group members think it was probably A Tribe Called Quest. Nah, I’m just messing with you, because me and Q-Tip are cool as hell. That’s where we met, out in New York. And we toured together, too.
Q-Tip and I have formed a really dope friendship. He’ll just call and say, “Man, I’m just calling to tell you I love you, bro …” Well, I love you, too, Tip. That’s a very different matchup.
Being somebody that was born with this manic depressive mindset and just a sick disorder mentally, I found an outlet through my music. You saw me succeed. You saw me fail. I know that hip-hop saved me. But at the same time it took away from me being a good father, a good husband, a good son, a good uncle. The music stole me from everything that I should have been, but it still made me everything that I could have been, if that makes sense.
EVE
Hip-hop was always around me at a very young age. I had a big family that all lived together and my aunt loved LL Cool J — like, looooved . She always played his music around the house and went to every concert when he came to Philadelphia.
The neighborhood we lived in always had block parties with DJs in the summertime, ’84, ’85. Meredith Street — they’ve since torn them down, but we used to call it “down bottom,” 46th Street. You’re kind of in your own world when you live in the projects. Everybody knows everybody. So it’s a celebration of the summer and food and culture. But at the same time, it was not always the safest.
The music was full on Salt-N-Pepa, Queen Latifah, Fresh Prince — he wasn’t Will Smith then, he was just Fresh Prince. Along with tons of soul music. My biological father is a DJ, so there was music on that side as well.
A lot of the reason I went into hip-hop was the females. What I saw in them was women who were holding their own up against the boys, but still celebrating their femininity. MC Lyte’s “Cappucino” — I can totally remember the video. What was I, 10? I thought she was so damn fly. She had this long black coat on, but then her hair was stacked and shaved in the back. I wanted to get my hair cut like hers.
I always sang and I would write poems. But it wasn’t really until ABC came out — Another Bad Creation — when I was like, I want to start rapping. I formed a little girl’s group then — DGP, Dope Girl Posse — and we would do a lot of their songs, En Vogue, Color Me Badd. We did every talent show in Philly.
But I didn’t really start getting real serious until I got to high school, and I was very much a battle rapper. I was the girl who loved to get in a cypher. I started listening more to Lil’ Kim, Biggie, and my sound switched up. Philly is definitely different. We were known for being battle rappers, but a lot of Philly style is kind of more backpack and I just didn’t gravitate towards that.
It was fast and punchy, go-for-the-jugular. Because I used to battle rap against dudes all the time, I would just go at it and hurt their egos. It was basically just talking [expletive]. I always had stuff in the chamber. It’s very easy battling high school boys, ego-wise. It’s literally the truth: “You’re broke and you live with your mom.” Talk about their [expletive] size, and then you’re done.
It was always important for me just to be good — not good for a girl. I looked at those cyphers as honing my skills. I never turned one down. I went to Martin Luther King High School, and I’d cut and have like two or three lunches just to battle people. In the cafeteria, by the locker, the back stairs, whatever. On the weekends, South Street, there would just be cyphers on the corner. My full name was pretty much “Eve, That Girl With the Blonde Hair That Can Rap.”
Once I stepped in the studio I realized what a song was. We used to work with this one producer, Marv, who was really good at structure. I just wanted to do 24 bars and he was like, Bro, that’s not a song — you need a hook. We paid him when we could. Maybe bring him a bag of weed or something.
My first deal was with Dr. Dre. I auditioned for his A&R at the time, Mike Lynn. My managers were like, we’re going to put this beat on and you just rap. And I did. He literally called Dre right after I was finished, like, Yo, I think we found our girl.
When I was signed to Dre, one of his producers who I did my demo with was like, Yo, you have to meet this kid DMX. This was way before I knew what Ruff Ryders was. It just so happened we were under the same umbrella of Interscope. And after Dre dropped me, Jimmy Iovine said I’d be great with Ruff Ryders.
I just wasn’t happy waiting in the wings. I started getting on Dre’s nerves. They didn’t know the direction to put me in, but I’m very happy I got dropped, because once I got with Ruff Ryders, it was my boot camp. I thought I knew how to write a song — not really. I was told to slow down my flow. I needed to be humbled, and being dropped will do that. That being said, I went on to make some of my greatest records — the song I won a Grammy for [“Let Me Blow Ya Mind”] — with Dr. Dre. That was when I knew who I was, though.
I had a lot of opinions about how I thought I should sound. A lot of my ideas got shot down. The music industry was trying to put me in a box — the box inside the box inside the box. Luckily, I got to hang out with and look up to people like Missy Elliott and Trina and Lauryn Hill and Queen Latifah, who became a big blueprint for how I wanted my career to go, coming from hip-hop, but also being able to transcend.
I was a huge No Doubt fan — like, huuuge . I loved Gwen Stefani and nobody understood what I was saying when I wanted to do the song with her. People looked at me like I was crazy. But we’re the same in the sense that we’re girly girls who are also tomboys — the girl with the boys, because I was that. I knew she’d want to hang out with the girls because she’s always with boys. We just clicked.
Now I love Leikeli47, Doja Cat — she’s so freaking dope. Her lyrics are amazing. Coi Leray. Latto is lyrically great. I love Megan, Cardi, Nicki. I love the fact that there’s so many women that I can actually name. There were years when I would be like: Where . Are . The Women ? It’d be the one or the two. Finally, there is an actual landscape. I love it.
ICE CUBE
I knew a lot of slick-talking dudes that would rhyme all the time. Everybody had a little rap somewhere. I remember Teena Marie, Blondie — Muhammad Ali was rapping. It was just the cool thing to do.
But it wasn’t until songs like “Buffalo Gals,” “More Bounce to the Ounce,” “8th Wonder,” “La Di Da Di” — these are the songs that started to really get me turned on to rap. Blowfly had a song called “Rapp Dirty,” and when we were in fifth grade my friend and I would wait till his mama left and we would just play “Rapp Dirty” and Prince songs like “Head.” The adults would try to make you go to bed when it was time to listen to those records.
I loved KRS-One. He had a lot of different styles, a lot of different techniques. And he had one of the coldest names ever when you broke it down: Knowledge Reigns Supreme Over Nearly Everyone. He was an in-your-face rapper who came with style and intelligence. “Criminal Minded,” “The Blueprint” — masterpieces. He’s just one of the best that ever blessed the mic.
My first group, the Stereo Crew, had a song with Epic Records that didn’t hit. I don’t know if we sold five of them. We got dropped after that single. There were local groups we looked up to that were way bigger: Uncle Jamm’s Army, L.A. Dream Team, the Wreckin’ Cru, King Tee, Ice-T, of course. Toddy Tee and Mix Master Spade, Joe Cooley, Rodney-O. They were all starting to make noise.
Me, Sir Jinx and K-Dee, or Kid Disaster, we was going around joining rap contests and battles. We could never get into the talent shows because they didn’t want rap music back then. It was a hobby. There was a little money from playing shows, but nothing to think that you could not have a regular job.
I went to a trade school called Phoenix Institute of Technology, in Phoenix, Ariz., and got a certificate in architectural drafting. I already had a hit record at the time — N.W.A had “Dope Man” out. Dre kept saying, “You sure you want to go to school?”
I got entrenched into the hip-hop community in Phoenix at the time. Artists would come through and perform at a place called the Celebrity Theater — Fat Boys, Doug E. Fresh, EPMD. They knew I had a hit record out, so they would let me kick it backstage.
I was going back and forth every other weekend because Southwest had a great deal — $50 for a one-way ticket. When I graduated, in September ’88, we was in the middle of making Eazy’s “Eazy-Duz-It” album.
This was dirty, underground, hardcore rap. Explicit lyrics. We all thought we would have records in the Rudy Ray Moore section, next to the Richard Pryor records. Who would play this? Who would make this mainstream? We were being told that we were fools for spending our money to make records that couldn’t get played on the radio. It was just a ridiculous notion. But Eazy didn’t care — he felt like if a hundred people played it, that was good enough.
ICE SPICE
Middle school was a really important time, that’s when I realized that I was into hip-hop, specifically. All the mainstream artists, to be honest, that are GOAT-ed now. A lot of Drake, Nicki, Kendrick.
My dad rapped — he’s pretty private, so I wasn’t like, sitting there listening to his mixtapes. I would say he’s more like a freestyle type of rapper. It’s not like that was his whole life, but thinking back, that’s probably where it could have sparked for me, personally.
When drill started happening, I remember listening to a lot of Pop Smoke and Sheff G and Sleepy Hallow. I just enjoyed the overall feelings that the music gives, that summertime vibe. In my earphones, that’s what I was playing. Just listening to their beat selections and their choice of topics, I feel like that inspired me a lot.
I’m still growing and learning as an artist. I wouldn’t even say like, we’re fully here. Like we’ve arrived at my sound. It’s always changing and evolving. But I feel like in a couple years people will refer to this as my “Like..?” era.
My approach is really a reflection of my personality. That’s just how I am in real life. And I feel like I’ve always been influencing people, even before everything popped off, whether it was at school or whatever the case. But now it’s on a bigger scale, so it’s way better now. It’s musically, but also when it comes to how people wear their hair or how they wanna wear their makeup, how they wear their nails. Even with the lingo, certain things they say in songs, beat selection, cadence, personality. There’s so much to take inspo from.
But, you know, I feel like we’re all constantly influencing each other. I do the same thing in my own way. Like, I’ve taken inspo from so many different pieces of the world that I can only be flattered by it, you know what I’m saying? Like whenever I find myself almost feeling a certain way — like, Oh, why this person sound just like me or why they trying to look like me? — I have to remember like, that’s the whole point. That’s just how art works.
LADYBUG MECCA
I grew up in the DMV, and my friend had a lot of family in Brooklyn. So he would travel there and spend summers and he would record the Red Alert radio show on cassette. At that time in the DMV — this was like ’85, ’86 — go-go had more presence than hip-hop, so we were a select few that were even into it on that level. I became obsessed. It was just so fly and next level. I had already been writing my observations about the world down on like, little pieces of paper or napkins. So hearing people expressing themselves through words, through rhymes, through cadence, it just grabbed me, you know?
The Jungle Brothers really stands out for me in terms of those cassettes. Everything sonically, like the rhythms, the tone of their vocals, their wordplay. Musically, it was just a sound that I hadn’t really heard. It felt like the future, like complete freedom of expression, being like completely free in your skin. That’s the best way I can explain it.
I learned to rap by listening. I really loved MC Lyte. Queen Latifah’s “Wrath of My Madness” was mind-blowing, just out of this world. And Public Enemy, their rhythm spoke to my internal rhythm, you know what I mean? It was just like family, you know, I don’t know how else to explain it.
In high school, my other close friends had a hip-hop group and I started off dancing for them. And then I started writing and doing little shows, like local stuff. And it became very, very serious once, you know, Knowledge and Ishmael [Doodlebug and Butterfly] asked me to be in the group. That’s when it became a reality, like I could do this possibly for a living.
When we were out, we felt connected to the whole Native Tongues. Tribe, De La of course. Arrested Development. Gang Starr. I’m heavily influenced by Sweet Tee’s music. I looked to everyone, like Special Ed, Big Daddy Kane, all these people, they’re my inspiration. Daddy Kane was so smooth and cool, he was just everything. I couldn’t wait to get home to turn on the TV and watch music videos and just see what new I could absorb.
PROJECT PAT
My earliest memory is LL Cool J and some of the New York rappers. And of course, N.W.A and Ice Cube. But Scarface and the Geto Boys, man. Face is the one. I could visualize what he was saying. I hadn’t heard nobody tell a story about living down South. On one line Face was talking about how he was selling dope in the apartments, and that’s the stuff I was seeing in Memphis.
I grew up on DJ Squeeky — Squeeky used to have the club rocking. I listened to 8Ball & MJG. And anything Cash Money. Those are our guys, we was messing with them before they made it big. Paul and Juicy was on them before they even blew up.
When I made my first tape, I had a robbery charge pending. They were trying to give me 30 years, so I wasn’t thinking about no future in rap. But my brother and I could always make a word rhyme. I grew up around a lot of pimps on the street. I would ask them about their little pimp sayings. I would hear them saying it and I would flip it and turn it around in my raps. The pimps were my major influence.
Back in the days, New York didn’t accept rappers who weren’t from there. So I knew I made it when Funkmaster Flex dropped a bomb on my song. I was in New York one time and this is when “Sippin’ on Some Syrup” was rolling. Three 6 Mafia had sold something like 2 million copies of the whole album. So Flex dropped a bomb on “Sippin’ on Some Syrup,” right? And then he turned around and played “Chickenhead” and dropped a bomb on that one. I couldn’t believe it.
Then I did a show back in 2010 in New York, and the whole ASAP Rocky crew was there. I couldn’t believe it. And I was the headliner and the whole show was sold out. And when Cardi B made that “Bickenhead” song, man, that was a blessing. We love all the different artists that came after us — they keep us alive.
TRIPPIE REDD
My mom would listen to oldies, like, Tupac, Biggie, Jay-Z, Ja Rule, that soulful sound. And my dad listened to more like street underground from back in that era. People like Rich the Factor, Jadakiss, the Jacka and Ampichino, Fred the Godson. And then my uncle would listen to like more of the newer stuff, like Wayne and Drake and Thug. On my own time, when it came to YouTube, I would go listen to like rock, so like Kiss and the Red Jumpsuit Apparatus. I used to play Saints Row and they had a track on the game and it made me a fan.
My brother passed away when I was young, so that kind of gave me that drive to start wanting to make music. And I would sit at my grandma’s house and just rap on the stairs and be there for like two, three hours, just freestyling. We would have little things at school where we would have to write, so I would show my pen skills. I would make my school projects cool. Like, oh, I’m gonna write a letter to Drake. I literally did that too. I wrote a rap to Drake. I was in like seventh grade.
I started like experimenting with Auto-Tune and getting to my own sound. Auto-Tune and stuff like that, it got me into SoundCloud. That was like the beginning of like that super underground phase, Ugly God and Playboi Carti and Lil Uzi Vert, I started making music around the same time as them. But I didn’t blow up until the XXXTentacion and Juice WRLD era. I liked X and Lil Peep. If you go to my SoundCloud, it was really X, Lil Peep and then Uzi, too.
Lil Peep was on that sad boy [expletive]. That was hard. I love that. Just that feeling of, you know, depression and sadness and pain. That’s kind of where I was at the time, I felt like their movement is fire. Like they’re doing exactly what I envision myself doing.
I also listen to a lot of rock, though. I love Chino from Deftones. He’s passionately in character with his vocals. It’s like you gotta make certain movements and certain faces to hit certain notes. Sometimes he’ll just like go from like a melody to breathing and it sounds the same, like the melody and the breathing is all in one. It just sounds hard to me.
I’m not quite a rapper. I’m the odd man out. People mistake me for a rapper and then it’ll leave me in that box. So the way I could stay out of that box is by creating music that keeps me out of it.
CARDI B
An unforgettable moment as a child was when I saw Missy Elliott take off her head in the “One Minute Man” video, and that just made me like, go crazy for it. That’s all I wanted. It’s like, I don’t want to hear Barney anymore, you know what I’m saying? I don’t want to hear Disney movies music anymore. I just automatically got into hip-hop.
My female cousins that were older than me, they always listened to Lil’ Kim, Foxy, all the girls that was out at the moment. I always remember, my mom used to be like, “Don’t be playing that too much around the kids.” Then I got into Trina’s type of music. Trina makes like, you know, a nasty, freak nasty type of music. Lil’ Kim does freak nasty too, but I feel like they have different types of style. The route for me was more of a Trina route. It’s crazy because I’m a New Yorker, but I was always into that Trina and the Khia and the Jacki-O type of vibe.
As a teen, it just made me be like, yeah, “I wanna be [expletive] like them.” And that’s how I really am, actually. I started doing music when I was 23, but I was listening to these girls at 15, 16, 17, 18. So the personality that their music gave me stuck to me.
At the time, I just stopped stripping, so I was very much still in that whole stripper world. I wanted the music to be about me. My first song, “Washpoppin’,” it’s like, “I need all my moneymakers bring that cash out/I need all my D-boys to bring that cash out.” It was get money type of music. And then I also was making music for the gangsters because I felt like I was just such a gangster-ass little bitch.
My manager, he used to have long conversations with me like, how do you feel? I used to be like, oh, you know, I feel overwhelmed, sometimes I feel really tired. And then he would ask me weird questions like, so how do your boyfriend make you feel? How do you feel about love? How do you feel about your past relationships? And then I would have a conversation with him about my past relationships and my traumas. And then he’ll be like, oh, OK, so put that on your music. And that’s when I started to talk more about other things than just the things that I was doing in my past, like gang [expletive], street [expletive] and stripper [expletive].
TOO SHORT
I’ve been into the whole James Brown, Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Parliament-Funkadelic thing since fourth or fifth grade. There were a lot of songs before “Rapper’s Delight” that had a little hip-hop vibe, but just didn’t have that name. It wasn’t called rapping. And you don’t even realize it until you go back and grow up a little more and listen back to songs of your childhood. James Brown is talking and, you know, telling you the breakdown’s coming — give me the horns . It’s just there.
I don’t even know if that was related to the New York streets in the ’70s or whatever, but I do know that words and rhythms were said over disco and funk records. But you know, once “Rapper’s Delight” hit, I think the DNA of hip-hop was planted in me. I would never not like that kind of music ever again.
I’m like, 13, pushing on 14. My father has a really nice stereo system set up in the living room. I’m talking like ’79, and if you’re what they called an audiophile, which he was, you really wanted to have your speaker set up for you to sit in a certain area and get a great musical experience. I got a little window between 3:30, 4, when I get home, and 5:30, 6, when he gets home from work. So those two hours, I could play it and just play it loud. “Rapper’s Delight” was the favorite, and there was another song that came out around that time, Parliament-Funkadelic’s “(Not Just) Knee Deep.” “Rapper’s Delight” is approaching like, 15 minutes on the 12-inch and “Knee Deep” is about the same. I would just play those two records back to back — you play them twice each and an hour’s gone by, you know?
Before there was any definitive identity in music-making for myself, it was purely based on anything George Clinton did. Any relation to Parliament-Funkadelic was the inspiration for how the music should go, how the drum pattern should go, how the bass line should go, how the breakdown should go. I always look at James Brown like, you know, the New York guys already got to that. They’re getting all the best samples and you’re too late on that train right there. But not a lot of people had gotten into the Parliament-Funkadelic and just recycled the funk.
The first rappers that had a profound effect on me were Spoonie Gee and Melle Mel. Spoonie Gee was just silky smooth with it — he was a player, one of the first players, if not the first, on the microphone — and he told stories of his day, just interacting with people and the ladies. He was just my favorite. These songs are coming out about these parties and kicking it and bragging — the early days, Sugar Hill Records. Then all of a sudden, here comes a guy who’s like, I’ve met this lady and I took her to my spot and I [expletive] her. And it’s like, he’s my guy .
And Melle Mel, “The Message,” it was just an amazing insight on New York life. I was already rapping when “The Message” came out, but there was no substance to what I was doing. It motivated me to start writing songs about my city. And that changed everything.
In my tapes, I’m using all the latest slang words. I’m naming popular people in the neighborhood. I’m talking about current events, whatever is, like, really ours. We talking 1982, ’83. “Rap is hot, but we got our kid right here. Too Short, he’s ours.” The entire east side of Oakland knew about us because we sold tapes in the streets. When we went into the streets and first started selling tapes, we only sold tapes to drug dealers. We had like a paper route of drug-selling spots.
I had all these little books that I would write rhymes in and my mom found them. I don’t know what she read. She never approached me and said anything. She just wrote this long letter saying, “I didn’t raise you like this. I hope you don’t believe in this stuff. Why are you doing this?” It was enough to make a brother want to cry.
You think James Brown’s mama would have been like, boy, stop gyrating and dancing? Or Little Richard’s mama? I don’t know. It’s the next generation. And my generation right now does not understand the look and the vibe that 16-year-old rappers are on. But you look at the video and it’s 300 million hits. Somebody gets it.
DMC
I was in seventh grade, 1978. We were all in the schoolyard and Billy Morris, who was in the eighth grade, he wasn’t like a thug or a gangster, but he knew all of them. We thought he was going to try to make us smoke cigarettes and drink Night Train or Thunderbird, that 99-cent liquor. When we got over there, he had this tape recorder and said, “Check this out.” He pushed play and a beat came on and we heard this voice say, “When you keep the pep in your step you don’t stop ’til you get on the mountaintop/And when you reach the top, you reach the peak, that’s when you’ll hear Eddie Cheba speak.” That was the first time I heard hip-hop on tape.
Billy let me hold that tape for a weekend. He saw how bad I wanted it. I listened to it from Friday night all the way up to Sunday night at 10 o’clock. My moms was like, “Boy, you better get your butt in bed. You got school in the morning!”
Summer vacation comes, and now I’m seeing hip-hop at the park parties and the block parties. All that was probably going on all this time but it wasn’t until the tape that I paid attention to it. By having that tape with me for the weekend it became part of me. Now I’m open for that vibration. This was in Queens. I didn’t know anything about the Bronx. I couldn’t even leave the block!
My brother, who is three years older than me, comes home talking about getting a turntable because his friends were all getting turntables. So long story short, we didn’t sell weed. My brother and I were broke. All I had was this huge Marvel comic book collection. So my brother says, “Yo, we ain’t got no money, but D, you got a lot of comic books. We are going to do a comic books sale so we can buy some turntables and a microphone.”
Me and my brother buy the turntables. Every time he would leave, I would go to the basement and try to figure them out. It wasn’t until I heard Grandmaster Flash that I really got interested in DJing. In Queens we called them Flash tapes. These were live performances that were going on in the Bronx, Harlem and Manhattan that were coming into Queens via cassette tapes being sold like records in every hood. Flash tapes, DJ Hollywood tapes, Zulu Nation tapes were all going around Queens.
Everybody is playing that “Rapper’s Delight” song. And the only thing I really paid attention to on that song was that Superman rhyme. It was so different from all the other raps. Because I was a good student, I listened to “Rapper’s Delight” three times and learned it from start to end.
My brother brings home a record called “Superappin’” by Grandmaster Flash, the guy from the tape who had these Furious Five MCs. It changed my life because it came on with so much power. “It was a party night everybody was breaking/The highs were screamin’ and the bass was shakin’/And it won’t be long ’til everybody knowin’ that Flash was on the beat box!” It was so different from “Rapper’s Delight.” It resonated with my youthful rebellious nature. That was the day Darryl McDaniels became Easy D.
I think because I was into comic books I understood the alter ego thing. Melvin Glover is Melle Mel. Mohandas Dewese is Kool Moe Dee. They had these alter egos so I knew I could play into that.
The ones that made me want to get on the mic, of course it was Melle Mel and Kool Moe Dee. But the artists that changed my life was DJ Charlie Chase, DJ Tony Tone, and the Cold Crush Four who were Grandmaster Caz, JDL, Easy A.D. and the Almighty Kay Gee. They are the greatest group in hip-hop that a lot of people don’t know about. They kept it raw on the MC performance thing. I changed my name to DMC because of GMC, Grandmaster Caz.
“Rapper’s Delight” and “The Breaks” were cool. But the greatest period in hip-hop is the time before recorded rap. It was a live tape of the Fantastic Five vs. the Cold Crush Four at Harlem World that changed what I thought about rapping. They was playing Billy Squier’s “Big Beat,” they were taking Spoonie Gee’s “Love Rap,” and they were making routines out of them! They were flipping everything that had been done and taking it to another level. That made me say, wow, you can be a rock star with this. The attitude they had reminded me of AC/DC or Iron Maiden mixed in with George Clinton, Parliament-Funkadelic and James Brown.
For me, I took real vocal inspiration from Freddie Mercury, Robert Plant and Mick Jagger. Especially Mick because Freddie was usually very melodic. He could do opera, but Mick was different, raw. I’m the king of rock. I didn’t want to be the king of rap. All I cared about was comic books. Black music was in my house, but I saw it as my mother’s and father’s music back then. It was 30-, 40- and 50-year-olds. They are listening to all this great Black music by people like Aretha and James Brown. I didn’t get it as a kid, but with ’70s rock radio there was a station in New York City called 770 WABC. Harry Harrison and Dan Ingram, they would play James Brown, Marvin Gaye, Al Green and Aretha Franklin. But they also played Harry Chapin, Bob Dylan, Led Zeppelin, the Stones and Joni Mitchell.
So the reason why I love rock more is not only the voices were stronger, louder and powerful and they looked like superheroes, the drums and the guitars were stronger and louder. It was like the Incredible Hulk to me. So the confidence that I had was like, “OK, I may not be as eloquent in words as Moe Dee and the rest of the Treacherous Three. But if I rock this mic like I’m a member of the Rolling Stones or Led Zeppelin? If I bring that persona to hip-hop?” Man … it worked. Chuck D said it: Run-DMC showed hip-hop could be done on rock star levels. That’s why I said, “I’m the king of rock/there is none higher!”
CAMRON
I started watching, paying attention when I was 8, 9 years old. I’ll be here forever telling you a bunch of names, but people that I loved was KRS-One. Kool G Rap, Slick Rick, 3rd Bass, EPMD, A Tribe Called Quest, N.W.A, Gang Starr, De La Soul, Queen Latifah, Naughty by Nature. I remember going to the Gap trying to get polka dot shirts because Kwamé had a polka dot shirt.
To me it was neck and neck between the conscious and the street rap, then all of a sudden the gangster just took over. Maybe because what was going on outside of rap with the drugs and crime. Maybe that elevated gangster music more than regular music.
My aunt lives in Inglewood, so I used to go to California in the summers and hear the radio and they wasn’t playing what we was playing. And then I went to Navarro College in Corsicana, Texas, in ’94. And I remember getting to school and it was like a culture shock almost, ’cause it was no New York music being played. All they played was Bone Thugs-n-Harmony. Also these guys that I wasn’t aware of that had a big influence on the South, UGK. I loved it. With UGK, I think Bun B can rap with anybody, any state. I think Pimp C was more a lifestyle thing. Bun and Pimp, they mesh beautifully.
When I came home from Christmas break that year, “Shook Ones” was out and I was like, yeah, New York! I went back to school with “Shook Ones” on a cassette tape and I kept playing that every day. That had me in the New York mentality and I end up pistol-whipping somebody and getting kicked out of school.
So with me being from New York, I learned a balance. I don’t want to act like I’m not a lyricist, but then at the same time it may be too much for people. I probably have more male listeners, but I always keep in the back in my mind, I want some girls coming to my show, too. This one of my top three rappers, but I’ve never heard any girl be like, yo, throw that Kool G Rap on.
I remember when I was on the verge of getting a deal. I was at this girl house and Jay-Z was just coming out. He didn’t have an album yet. His first few singles was out. I’m like, yo, Nas is nice, man. She like, nah, I like Jay-Z. She said, Cam, I don’t want to carry a dictionary to the club with me when I go out.
That Nas and Jay-Z argument, it wasn’t just with the girl. I seen it starting to happen in different conversations and I was like, Jay is kind of the new standard. Before we had phones, when I didn’t have a deal, I used to keep 100 different loose-leaf papers in my pocket. I was like, whenever Jay-Z come out with something, I gotta come out with something because I seen where it was going and how people started adapting to him.
There wasn’t anybody that we said we need to be like them or rap like them. What I did see was that movements were always accepted. Whether it was the Native Tongues, the Hit Squad, or whether it was Cash Money or No Limit, or Roc-A-Fella or Murder Inc. I was like, I could create a team to where if you don’t like Cam, you may like Juelz. If you don’t like Juelz or Cam, you may like Jim Jones. ’Cause we used to be on my block arguing about who was the best in No Limit and people used to be like, oh, y’all don’t even know about Mr. Serv-On. And I would pay attention to these arguments and I’d be like, yo, everybody likes No Limit, but they have their favorites. So as long as you like No Limit, it don’t even really matter, ’cause you like the brand.
I remember Master P arguing with a DJ in New York. I won’t say the name. And they was trying to say, yo man, if you come to New York, we could give you this, this and this, ’cause Master P never had been in New York. And Master P, I remember him telling the DJ, look man, I don’t need New York. I don’t need y’all. I’m good. And I was like, yo, [expletive] is really eating outside of New York. So I already knew it’s an audience for that, so I always kept that in my mind.
Years later, Pimp C called me one day and he said, “Hey man, I’m about to dis the whole East Coast except for y’all. Them [expletive] up there be fronting. I believe y’all raps, man. I was at ’106 & Park,’ I seen Juelz. He had a Maserati, that thing was cute. Everybody else, they ain’t getting no money like us down here. But I think y’all are.’”
LL COOL J
It really started with the tapes that were floating around the city. The Cold Crush and the Fantastic Romantic 5 and the Force MCs and Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Four, and then Five MCs. And then later on it was Fearless Four and the Treacherous Three. And Zulu Nation.
I lived between Long Island and Queens, but I actually got exposed more on Long Island because next door to me was a whole house full of foster kids, and they were from the five boroughs, but mainly the Bronx and Uptown. They were bringing tapes, some better quality than others, so I was hearing everything way earlier. I was hearing it as it was unfolding.
One day I was in the hallway in junior high, I had already been rhyming for quite a while, and this kid was singing part of a Jimmy Spicer song: “This DJ, he gets down, mixing records while they go ’round.” The light was coming through the hall and it was just me and him, he didn’t know I was there. I just remember the way he looked when he was singing that. And the way it sounded — it just clicked for me. I said, That’s what I want to do for real. I actually want to step into that dimension. It was like a dream.
From there I just started joining a lot of groups. Some rejected me. At the end of the day, I just worked really, really hard. I went everywhere. I was all over the city. I was all over Queens. I started going uptown to Harlem. At about maybe 15, 16, right before I actually ended up recording, I started hanging out with a guy named Silver Fox. Silver Fox was like a tutor for me when it came to the craft of writing rhymes and cadences and lyrics and all that. He also mentored Kool G Rap in a different way. Fox was real skillful, and he was a very prolific songwriter.
Lyrically, I was inspired by Melle Mel, Spoonie Gee, the Treacherous Three, the Fearless Four — DLB, Tito, Mighty Mike C, Peso. Those were the guys that really were into wordplay. A lot of their wordplay still holds up very well. They all had unbelievable style, and I was able to learn a lot from them. It’s kind of like I would imagine a guitar player sitting down and listening to how people roll them licks and hit them chords, and then after a while you just kind of develop your own thing.
One thing led to another. I was just sending tapes out and finally, obviously, my tape got in the hands of Rick Rubin in his dorm and Adam Horovitz of the Beastie Boys. By the time I got to “I Need a Beat,” I was ready to rhyme on any stage, in any arena, with anybody.
I did run into a little bit of arrogance here and there, which is why I’ve always tried my best not to treat anybody the way some of these guys treated me. It was a very small community, though. No industry. In other words, there were no managers. Russell Simmons ended up managing people, but he was still learning his way. There was no network of people. It was just a few believers here and there. I’m a generation 1.5 artist — myself, Run-DMC, Beastie Boys. Meaning that we tapped into the culture, evolved with the culture, but then we are the ones who went out and actually turned it into a full-blown, worldwide global industry.
BOOTS RILEY
When I was 15, I was trying to get my boy Johnny to come to police brutality rallies. I was like, man, you can rap and it’s gonna be a lot of people there. And he would be like, I’m only gonna do it if you rap, too.
Often what I was doing was just stealing Schoolly D stuff because nobody knew it. In school, pounding on the table and rapping, I was also doing theater. Somebody came up with the idea like, let’s do our own version of “West Side Story,” but we’re at East Oakland, so let’s call it “East Side Story” and let’s make it all rap. So that was my first writing.
I spoke at a rally at U.C. Berkeley, and this dude Pizo the Beat Fixer who was Too Short’s DJ for a while comes up to me and says, “Hey man, do you rap, ’cause that political [expletive] could hit right now.” I was like, yeah, matter of fact, I do. He put out an album that was me, Spice 1 and a dude named Mocedes who was known at the time because he was on Tony! Toni! Toné! song where he says, “Mocedes, the mellow.” Later on, he got known as Mopreme, Tupac’s stepbrother.
Here’s the thing with every local artist, even to this day — we’re all taught that we aren’t [expletive]. I remember I was in junior high when Too Short got to open up on the Fresh Fest. And people were talking about, oh, how they let him on, blah, blah, blah, this and that. It wasn’t until MC Hammer and Digital Underground where people started being like, oh, you know, this is something local but other people like it. You have this little town mentality. And so when we had the Coup, it took until we could show that people other places liked us to where people claim you. Because everybody wants to be connected to something important.
I mean, there was definitely a sense of teamwork happening, people sharing contacts, people wanting shows to happen. I do have to say this for the 20-year-olds that are reading, you’re not like, reposting each other’s things. You show up at each other’s thing. You’re in each other’s videos. E-40’s uncle was distributing most everybody’s stuff. At one point, my manager was Chaz Hayes, and he was managing us, Spice 1, E-40, Master P and some of the members of Tony! Toni! Toné!
“Soul Beat” on TV was the way that you also heard about stuff. They had stuff like Ice Cube when he was just in C.I.A., dancing by the pool. So the Coup and E-40 and the Click were performing at Soul Beat Day, and backstage E-40 and Studio Ton was like, “Hey, we want to do something with that lyric of yours ‘practice looking hard.’” So that’s when we started doing stuff together. We were doing a lot of car shows, lowrider shows up and down California. I still have my trophies from doing those lowrider shows.
I remember Wild Pitch said to us, we got this idea. They were like, you don’t really fit into a genre, and we think one way to get past that is to put you on a college tour. And we’re like, we’re not making no college music. Meanwhile that’s who’s buying the records, so we made a terrible mistake.
But they gave us $14,000. So we went on a 50-day tour in a minivan where we got out in each city, we put up our own posters, put up our own stickers, asked people where the record stores were and went to the record store, played them our record, made ’em listen to it.
When we got to D.C., the label was like, we’re not getting any headway with BET. We had saved up our per diem, you know, we each had $5 a day. We knocked on the door, we told Joe Clair to pick wherever he wants to go to eat. We took him to eat and hung out with him and showed him the video. And then a week later, I think it was Memorial Day, they played it crazy. Right then we were in Cleveland and people started being like, I just saw you on TV.
EARL SWEATSHIRT
My best friend when I was like 4 or 5 years old, literally in a hip-hop movie-style fashion, came over to my house with a Rob Base tape. The only thing that makes that unique is that it happened in 2001 and not in 1988. It must have been his parents’.
By the way, a lot of people’s favorite flows from their faves right now is basic party-rocking flows from the ’80s. The ’80s is back. Like BabyTron — Detroit got the ’80s really right here in our face right now.
Before I went to Samoa, I was listening to Lupe, Hov, De La, Common, P, Dilla. Dilla as a rapper, I’m not gonna do the whole annoying thing right now, but that was a huge thing. Like, I spent a lot of time as a 12-year-old really locking in flow-wise. I’m always gonna fly the flag for the Cool Kids. I feel like Cool Kids and De La, if you squint, it’s a similar space. Now that De La is back on streaming, bro, I’ve been on it heavy. Rappers still can’t rap like that. Like, it’s too free, but structured. It has that impossibleness to it.
By the time of my first tape, I didn’t even have enough time to synthesize all of my influences. You know how Peter Parker first gets bit by the spider and his web is all over the place, he’s gotta get the suit? It was that. I’m finally at the point where I can even hold all of this at once, or be dexterous enough to move within all of it.
But when I was like 15, on my first tape, I was listening to Eminem and Doom. Which is where everyone checks in with me at — everyone’s like, OK, Doom-Eminem guy. Everyone is mad because I don’t say, like, “hazardous” when I rap anymore. [Expletive] is really excited by just one-for-one-ing four-syllable words. It’s a good party rap trick. But that’s easy, you know what I mean?
A thing that has kept me healthy is never being xenophobic about the Brits. I’ve been listening to British rappers the whole time. I think you dust yourself if you don’t. They are really, really, really, really, really good at rapping. They got the freedom of like some dancehall, bro. A lot of where it will be hanging off the cliff’s edge of a beat. That’s what I love about them though — you can go to a new place if you let yourself go over there. It’s like jazz standards, bro. If you don’t have a valid U.K. flow, then you’re gonna get dusted.
Growing up, I feel like we were the first generation that was familiar with everything but, like, maybe don’t want to listen to it all day. But we’re finally at this point that I used to joke about like five years ago, where little kids don’t know Tupac and that’s not embarrassing. It’s supported.
Every generation of 19-, 20-year-olds is gonna come along and be like, [expletive] what you guys just did, I don’t care about it. Maybe that’s like a natural kind of thing that happens as you stand up as a human being. But learning how to listen to Nas, learning how to listen to these things that even though you want to listen to Lil Wayne all day, your older brother, your uncles are like, this is it right here — that’s important.
And I’m still down for that. From my own experience with committing these passages of song to my memory, I know the utility of being a historian so you can draw lines from that to the new thing and not be lost. And then most importantly not become jaded and not have a in-house fighting thing going on that’s yielded some pretty nasty [expletive].
I was part of that first generation that came on the internet and was like, [expletive] this [expletive]. And then old heads were like, what is y’all little [expletive] talking about? And then having that butting-heads thing unnecessarily, because we gotta work together, you feel me? It’s like being in a house. If the adults only interacted with the adults and the children only interacted with the children, it doesn’t work.
You gotta be around kids. This is what I’m saying about the utility of the multigenerational aspect of this thing. The elders know what happened so they can inform the younger ones on, oh, if you like this, then you should check out this, this and this, so you can see the iterations that came before and you can do something different. And then the young people are here to teach the old people this new dance move.
If there’s one thing that comes through this article, I hope it’s this. I want to clarify for people that’s inspired by what I do. I feel like because of my disposition, the thing that I see some kids take away is like a mood and a vocal timbre. And it’s like, I went to the Samoa boys school, my whole [expletive] was all [expletive] up. Whatever weirdness everyone watched me go through was legitimately genuine for me. That is not a stylistic choice. I wish that I didn’t sound like that.
I hope that what they take away from me is be good at rapping. That’s the thing that I care about. I really don’t [expletive] with being a tortured artist. Being tortured is not tight. Rapping hella good is tight. Pigeonholing me means you can just feign knowledge by being like, oh, he makes sad music. Bro, if you listen to my music, 70% of my music is about being better than you. I am a very competitive rapper.
I feel like I had the world put in my hands and I was like, what the [expletive] is this right here? And so I don’t want you to copy that part. I’m saying if you ever get the world in your hands, be free.
Q-TIP
My sister was best friends with Sweet Tee — she made that record, “It’s My Beat.” So back when I was little-little, I remember hearing them talk about records, like, you heard that Treacherous Three record? I’m like, Treacherous Three, I’m thinking it’s like superheroes.
There was a record store on Linden Boulevard, like, right up from my house — I forget the name of it. I used to go there with no money and just ask him about the records and just to see the records. And he would play them for me. You had hundreds and hundreds of 12-inches that would just start popping up. Back then it was still coming out of the disco culture — “Rapper’s Delight,” Fatback Band, “King Tim III (Personality Jock),” Ronnie Gee, “Raptivity.”
We heard “Rapper’s Delight,” and I’ll never forget Phife calling me like, yo, we can do that! The newness of it left us wide-eyed and inspired and hopeful.
You think about the Treacherous Three, Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five, the Fearless Four, everybody had a group. So you have all these vocalists trading off. And if you even wanna get geekier about it, it goes back to like the old doo-wop street-corner harmony. Famously Run-DMC obviously took that whole interplay between them two and made it worldwide. And of course we wanted to be like them.
I was a big fan of LL Cool J, Kool Moe Dee, T La Rock, L.A. Sunshine from Treacherous Three. All of the dudes where the vocabulary was just a little extra. Slick Rick was huge — his sound, his tone, his voice and the confidence, you know?
Obviously coming up with the Jungle Brothers and De La Soul and the whole Native Tongues, we were tuned to be a little bit more cerebral. And all of the aforementioned icons got us to that point where we knew that we could cannonball off of the diving board. But I remember us wanting to even go further, to be like some Earth, Wind & Fire or some Parliament-Funkadelic. Like to really try to turn it on its ear, and just let that flag fly.
Our thing was to try to marry the two, the music and the content of the lyrics. And to try to be differentiators even amongst our caper partners. And to our left and to our right, when you would look, there’s N.W.A doing that same thing. The music that Dre was putting with the subject matter fit so perfectly. It was fresh, it was just new and it was exciting to be able to emotionalize the music.
Dre and I speak all the time. That’s my bro. We actually have great musical volleys. Obviously LL. I still speak to the De La guys, of course. I catch Latifah here and there. A good deal of us still keep up. I still speak to Lauryn. It may not be like a full open faucet stream of conversation all the time, but we still keep up. I remember talking to Snoop years ago and he was like, man, when y’all made that “Back in the days in the boulevard,” me and Warren G used to rap y’all [expletive].
I think it was 1991, we were doing a Midwest and South gauntlet with the Geto Boys. We were opening for them — they were huge down there. Probably the two most unlikely groups, right? But we had so much fun, man. We was big fans of them, we was rapping they [expletive] to them and they was rapping our [expletive] back to us. It was just amazing. I remember very early on we had a show with DJ Quik and KRS in Compton, and just seeing all the Bloods, and they was just rocking to “El Segundo” and “Bonita” and it was just like, wow, this is really a unifying music.
Because of the scarcity then, when you got in, you had to be good. To be good was the average. I think that everybody’s grind back then to get on was something that created conduits of empathy amongst us all. So that when we did see each other, we were able to tell each other griot tales of how we all got on. “Y’all too? Even in Houston? Even in Cali? Even in Miami?”
When you’re doing it, you feel like you’re on your own planet, right? But then when people dig it and you start seeing other people draw inspiration from what we did, it let us know that we were onto something and it also made the world a little less scary, if that makes sense.
It’s just a great moment of, for me personally, humility and appreciation, when you see a Digable Planets or Arrested Development, a Pharcyde or Souls of Mischief, the Roots. You could go to Badu, the Fugees. And Dilla, who was the great extender of the parlance and endowed it with his own beautiful traits.
That’s to me what I take a great sense of pride in, that I can see all of these guys go on and do honestly better than what we did and to lay even more tracks for us. And it’s like, “Come on, let’s go.”
50 CENT
I fell in love with hip-hop, but it was only playing for one hour out the week on the radio. My grandmother used to go to church and take a tape recorder and record everything the minister said, and she would play Sunday service to herself again on like, Wednesday. She had all of these Maxell cassette tapes that once you record, you break the little tab off. I had to go get toilet paper and put it in the square and record over what she already had for the church. It was only on for one hour — I had to record it then.
This is back when KRS was out, he made such an impression on my career early on, ’cause creatively, that aggression that was there. I didn’t follow a complete blueprint of what he’d done, and at one point he got so much smarter than the audience that it wasn’t entertaining because it was like learning some [expletive]. It was teaching. That’s where he lost me a little bit. But when he came in the beginning, he had the competitive energy — that was what hip-hop was to me the entire time.
He said, “Manhattan keeps on making it, Brooklyn keeps on taking it/Bronx keeps creating it and Queens keeps on faking it.” And I’m from Queens! I liked it so much. But I didn’t know how I felt about it because of what it said.
If you look at that, then look at what I done at the desperation point where Columbia didn’t understand who I was as an artist. I was approaching the release date and I had to do something. I know I don’t have the momentum or anything. It’s going to not work, and it not working isn’t an option. So “How to Rob” — that’s my version of that energy.
Biggie and Tupac, following that, artists were afraid to say each other’s names. So Nas was saying “20 G bets I’m winning ’em, threats I’m sending ’em/Lex with TV sets the minimum.” It was him describing Jay-Z. “In My Lifetime.” Subliminally talking about each other without actually mentioning each other’s name.
My personality difference from the other artists, I’ve been bumped around more than them the entire journey. On my journey early on, it was rough. Then as the music business was doing it to me too, I kind of didn’t know how to not respond like the pit bull that you have outside in the yard.
Early on, Dre was like, I know what this is, this is N.W.A, it’s just one member. What Dre was telling me was that I don’t have to reach to get the audience to come [expletive] with me. They’ll come to me. But I was like, I need this other thing. I had worked out and I got myself into a good space physically. I needed the female audience to feel like they could fix me.
When I listened to great albums, they’ve had emotional moments. With Biggie, it’s “____ You Tonight” featuring R. Kelly. It would create a tone shift on a rapper’s album more like rapping as the feature on someone else’s R&B song. Like Dre specifically, that record, “21 Questions,” he was like, I don’t know why you want it. I hear it. It’s good, but you don’t need it.
The hardest person you could have a melody on a record was Nate Dogg. Nate Dogg will [expletive] you up! Having Nate was the coolest way to make a record like that still feel really hard, and for you not to question it.
I was creatively in pocket on the first record. But I became a star during the second album. The second album is when I found this new value for myself. I started feeling like a bad bitch.
I’ll tell you something that Michael Jackson taught me. Because he was talking to Chris Tucker, and he was a big fan of the actual music. And he was like, you know what, he has good melodies. Like, the way I would say things in the choruses and stuff like that. And that’s what is allowing it to connect internationally, where English is people’s second language. They only can follow the melody.
I think in general, the culture loves things that are damaged, because it makes the audience feel better about themselves, looking at somebody like, they’re more [expletive] up than I am. It allows parts of the audience to go on a safari. To be close enough to the animals and not actually be in danger.
GUCCI MANE
I remember buying my first $5 cassette tape, 2 Live Crew, from the flea market in Alabama. I was like 6 or 7. I didn’t even know what the music was about, that cover was just so raunchy to me. My mama found the tape and played it on the porch in front of her friends to embarrass me — like, “Look what Radric’s listening to.” But I only bought it for the cover.
I moved to Atlanta when I was 9. My brother was listening to the gritty underground Atlanta stuff, the gritty Memphis stuff, New Orleans, so that’s what I gravitated towards — Kingpin Skinny Pimp, Triple Six Mafia, the Hot Boys and Master P.
By the time I started trying to finance my own first tape, maybe ’99 or 2000, those were the key people I could relate to — B.G., Project Pat. Like, OK, this dude just got out of jail, and everybody in the hood listens to that. I’m going through the same things at the same time.
I didn’t feel like Project Pat was the best rapper, but he made me feel him. I’m like, can’t be Fabolous or Lil Wayne, but I can do this. I was late in the game, but I didn’t have to be scared to try. I was going to spring break in Daytona, and it was the whole summer of Project Pat and Big Tymers. I started doing the stuff they were rapping about — like, I’m going to be the CD that I’m listening to.
That’s really how this started. It wasn’t even a love of hip-hop; I’m a hustler. I’m like, damn, I really don’t want to sell dope all the time. It’s too risky. If Jermaine Dupri can put out Kris Kross, Birdman ain’t really a good rapper and I got a little money — I can get in this.
I was always thinking, none of this matters if I go to the club and I ain’t got no movement. I’d seen rappers try to get their music out, but they looked lame and no one took them seriously. I was like, “How can I get the whole apartments on Bouldercrest to come with me?” I knew I was popular, I was already going to the club, and I leveraged that. It really was calculated.
My first album came out in 2005. I think 50 Cent dropped his in 2003. He was just super hot. The same stuff he was talking about, I was really having those beefs. It ain’t even nothing to glorify, but that’s what was going on for me, for real. That was my soundtrack, and it really emboldened me to talk with urgency about the stuff I’m doing.
That was at a time when I was heavily in the streets, and I was heavily paranoid about what I had did. I was riding back and forth to Alabama trapping and I had two CDs — Lil Jon’s CD, “Kings of Crunk,” and “Get Rich or Die Tryin’.” That was my inspiration: “I just have to get past this stage.” I moved fully back to Atlanta in 2004, and maybe two weeks later, I made “Black Tee.”
Gucci in ’06, I just was whoever I was 24/7, a lot of times to my detriment. But that’s who I was as a 26-year-old guy trying to be an artist, one foot in and one foot out. My peak came later because I was locked up. But the business was in a better place when I got out, and I benefited from that.
People would never think that a rapper in his 40s would be as in demand. But I’m making way more money than I thought. I never could travel until I was 37, 38 years old. I’m glad I don’t have to do a show in the hood all the time, like I was doing. I know the chitlin circuit. I’m so glad I got over a lot of hurdles, where now I can do a show internationally and get the type of money I felt like I deserved.
Being in Iceland was definitely one of those moments. I had a concert at a festival. The sun didn’t even go down the whole day. That was the craziest thing I’ve ever seen — and it was fun. I never would have thought that it would be something I’d like. I used to tell people, “I don’t want to go nowhere but East Atlanta and right back to the studio.” But damn, it was way better than sitting in that cell.
DJ HOLLYWOOD
The beginnings of what hip-hop is was called non-syncopated rap, meaning that they had a lot of rap, but people weren’t doing it to the track. They had a jazz beat going or some kind of miscellaneous beat that didn’t drive the words. Whatever they were talking about, it had to be really, really tight and interesting, or nobody wouldn’t listen to it. So some of these cats was like the Last Poets, Rudy Ray Moore, Blowfly, Jocko Henderson, Pigmeat Markham, Oscar Brown Jr., Hank Spann. A turntable wasn’t involved.
When the turntable became involved is basically where I step in and started adding the lyrics to a record. I got my first job in ’71. Once I got the mixer with the headphones, it changed the game.
Records back in the day, there was an A section, a B section and a break. I’m the voice. And then I get my voice out right in time for the guy that starts singing. As long as I’m complementing the music, I’m in it. Not only did you get the great record, but you got the great introduction to the record as it came on, you know?
I was a singer before this all happened. I began to sing everything I said — “If I was snow, I would be cold/If I was a jug of wine, I would be old” — and that’s what made it harmonious.
I didn’t call it rapping. I was just entertaining. It was new, it was fresh. A lot of people was like, “Yo, could somebody tell this [expletive] to shut up. Let the record play!” I went through the wire with this. It wasn’t all sweet. But I managed to stand my ground.
After the blackout in ’77, everybody and they mama had some equipment — microphones and turntables and stuff — and they all started to get into the game. I had the blueprint of what a person should be doing, and mostly everybody, they were sounding just like me. A lot of the guys were using my same lines to get their thing on, you know what I mean?
I’m the creator of the style. I’m the creator of the colorful words over music to make people enjoy themselves. Because the first raps was about enjoying yourself. Then it got political and then it got to your neighborhood, then it got to the stickup man and then it got to the sexy, all that came after. But at the beginning, it was basically just to have a good time.
I saw people putting out records, but what they’re doing is slightly different. But I had a big head. Like, get out the way — this is Hollywood!
I was high. I was a lunatic for a while. When you high, you don’t give a [expletive] about nothing. And that’s how I got left behind. ’Cause I was fired up and then being fired up inside my head, like there’s nothing better than me. I’m not ashamed. That’s what happened and that’s how it went.
I was high for a long time. I was high in the ’80s, too. I was on cocaine at first and then I moved to the crack. I can’t blame what happened on anybody other than me. Don’t have a soul in the world that I can say, man, y’all didn’t do me right, y’all didn’t look out for me. And I know plenty of people that could have, plenty of people that should have.
I didn’t make the money that they’re making now, but at the time I was making more money than anybody. I had limousines, I had my own Cadillac. I was doing very well, but I was getting high at the same time, so I was spending my money frivolously.
Everything that I ever owned, it just went. I lost the apartment, so all the stuff that I accumulated there is gone. And I did that over and over and over.
The whole 50 years of hip-hop that they’re promoting right now, it’s not about dudes from where I’m at. It’s for dudes from the ’80s. I look around, man, there’s 7,000 legends. Where’d they come from? How? What did you do to be a legend? This little period of 50 years of hip-hop and they’re honoring it, if it goes past and I get nothing out of it, then I don’t know what to do from there.
I can’t beat myself up. I got clean toward the ’90s. All I want to do is find me a spot where they let me play. I’m trying to see right now how I can change my life from here. The whining, I ain’t never do that. Me cracking myself over the head, I’m not going to do that. I’m sorry I didn’t catch on, but I mean, it wasn’t no thing to me. I really didn’t have that period where I was so sad that it wasn’t me. Because I’m in all of them. I’m in their DNA.
MC LYTE
In Spanish Harlem, where my grandmother lived, my older cousins were playing cassette tapes: the Cold Crush Brothers, Funky 4 + 1, Sha-Rock, Treacherous Three, Sugarhill Gang, Kurtis Blow. I remember one of my cousins used to date his brother, and that was a big deal.
The Sequence was definitely an influence to hear — Angie B, Blondy and Cheryl, how they all attack, like very differently from one another, but were laid back with it. That laid-back way became a part of the way that I stepped to a microphone. And of course, Salt-N-Pepa, they definitely were a guiding force for me. I learned all of the words to their records as I began to practice for who it is that I was going to become.
Run-DMC, Melle Mel — the message of “The Message” really helped me. I was already writing stories, because my mother insisted I write essays for everything. So to be able to hear about this place that I had never been. I had never been to the Bronx. I was just Brooklyn and Manhattan. As far as I knew, 138th Street was the last stop on the train.
I never considered myself a rapper. I was an MC, and an MC, to me, is very different from a rapper. Like an MC is, you know, Nas, versus someone who is not an MC, but had a rap record, and that would be Hammer. He wasn’t in there to show his skills off as an MC, he was in there to make a hit song. Just because you rap doesn’t make you a rapper. But that’s just me.
I happen to like a lot of what the female MCs are doing now, and I listen to everything — I’m a DJ. I’m not just an ’80s, ’90s DJ. I like “Plan B” by Megan Thee Stallion. I like Megan’s register. I’m a fan of Remy Ma. The way that she rhymes, she makes you feel it, just like Lil’ Kim. Just like Foxy. Foxy, Lil’ Kim and myself, we’re all from Brooklyn.
I like this new one by Coi Leray, where she uses that “Message” sample. I like Latto when she used Mariah’s sample. It just feels like a return to something heavy and loaded, and I like when I can feel the depth in someone’s voice.
I’m a fan of Rapsody. I love what she talks about. Just the awareness and acknowledgment of love and womanhood and Blackness. Tierra Whack. Nobody’s messing with that freestyle, she’s just bananas with it. And of course, Cardi and Nicki. Baby Tate. It’s like so many MCs on the scene. Lady London. Oh my goodness, she brings it. You’re talking about college-educated, and not afraid to flip some words on you that you got to go look up.
No one rolled over and started rapping by themselves. Everybody was inspired by somebody. Whether they want to come clean about that or not is a different situation.
LIL WAYNE
The New Orleans hip-hop scene was way more captivating than the worldwide hip-hop scene, because it was more in your face. Our local radio stations, they favored our artists, so our Top 10 songs would always be full of New Orleans. You’d probably get a Billboard No. 1 hip-hop song thrown in there at, like, No. 8.
Our block parties were a bit different; they were more like a concert. There’s a big crowd, there’s a DJ and there’s a microphone, but it’s not for the DJ. The DJ would introduce the artist coming on, and it was up to that artist to keep the party going.
All these names are a chain link to me getting a deal: This first artist, his name was Roni. Roni was one of the best. He reminded me of Juvenile a lot. His niche was finding a way to tell you exactly what he’s doing every day — walking to the damn corner store — and he found a way to make you love it, feel like you could relate to it, like you just took that same walk. He’d go through his day and people would love it.
You could get a recorded tape of that whole block party, sold after it was over. I would only want to hear Roni’s part, backwards and forwards, over and over and over. He was from my hood, but he was a grown-ass man, so he didn’t know too much about me.
From the other side of my hood, there was another guy named Lil Slim and he was a bit different. He talked about the hood, and the hood only. I meshed those two guys together, and I couldn’t wait to get my opportunity.
I was every bit of 9, 8 years old. Thank God I was always a smart kid in school, so I was interested in words, always interested in words. Never knew why; I still don’t. I always was the main person in the play. Whatever it was, from “Les Miserables” to “Wizard of Oz.” I want the main role. I couldn’t wait till the day that damn DJ gave me the mic. It was over.
I was probably around 10, 11 when they had the station called the Box. People were ordering videos, so you had to watch 1,000 videos you don’t want to watch, but once or twice you’ll see something on there that you didn’t know too much about. That was my real introduction to being actually interested in other music other than New Orleans music.
I fell in love with New York artists, anybody from the East Coast. They was making more of their words to me. You had people like Q-Tip and Busta, way before the “Gimme Some More” swag — just a backpack, big old jacket on, spitting. I was interested in artists that took on a character. The reason why I don’t read comic books or watch cartoons or believe in superheroes like my other friends was because I’m getting the same thrill out of hip-hop.
I fell in love with Onyx, because I believed they woke up in the morning screaming at each other. And still my favorite artist, Missy Elliott. You know when you’re watching a sport and you’re like, this person is just too cold, too damn good and they can do whatever they want? She was that person to me.
Before there was Drake and people who were rapping and singing, Missy was doing that. That captivated me, and I was moved by that. It made me want to do it. That’s why I loved Drake when I met Drake. If you’re around me, you know for a fact that if you’ve got a little harmony, a little melody in your voice, I’m about to make you sing.
To me, Shawn Carter, Jay-Z, was the god of words. He could’ve rewritten English books. I was introduced to Jay by listening to Biggie. “Lucky Me,” from “In My Lifetime, Vol. 1,” I learned backward and forward. I put it in songs, and I actually start off every show, still, saying words from that song: “And I swear to everything when I leave this earth/it’s gon’ be on both feet, never knees in the dirt/you could try me, [expletive]/but when I squeeze it hurts/fine …” And what’s crazy is we stop the music on that part and the crowd sings the rest of it with me as if I wrote that. But that’s all Jay.
When it comes to B.G., he’s very significant, very specific, because we put songs together -together. That was back when I actually put words on paper. I know exactly his writing style, his technique. It’s impossible for some of that not to rub off on you. But I don’t write anymore.
I was probably about 16, 17 — this is before internet and all that — when I heard a nugget that Jay wasn’t writing. And I didn’t want to ever see a pen or paper again in my life. Jay was my Bible.
Back then, whoever the star was, they would always take on this young protégé. I would always look to that person. When Jay did it, I would look to Bleek. If I’m listening to Puff, I would look to Mase, or I would look for Jada. It was the humility of the big dog to set up a path for the next person to be bigger. And so that’s why I made sure when I got the chance, I was going to run with it.
Nicki Minaj was always into my wording technique, the way I come up with the verse. “Why?” “But why?” “OK, but why?” She’s that kid. She was set on, “I’m the female Weezy.” Nick would change her voice like me, she would actually sound like me sometimes.
Drizzy’s just Drizzy. That “good boy, bad boy, I was on the TV show, but I wish you would play with me” type of stuff.
I was scared, actually, when I called Eminem for a song. That is a monster. He must have the same thing I have with words. Like, we can’t get them out of our heads. Every meaning, every aspect of them. Things that rhyme, we hear it. I already know the gift and the curse that he has. And I love to hear the way he puts it together.
When I was on “The Tonight Show,” I was playing Pictionary. And my thing was Harry Potter. So I drew a pot, and they got that. I drew a man with a face, and I put a bunch of hair around him. They were like, “Wait, he’s hairy.” I’m, like, Harry Potter . We plan our words. At all times.
AZEALIA BANKS
I’ve made a special contribution to hip-hop, and I feel like that gets overlooked a lot of times. Hip-hop is Black culture. People say, “Oh, you make house music, aka white people music.” I’m like, honey, no. House music is Black music. Everything I do is in the spirit of hip-hop.
My first memory of hip-hop, even though I had no clue what was going on, was O.D.B. on Mariah Carey’s “Fantasy” remix. I was like 2, going on 3. And Lil’ Kim’s verse on “All About the Benjamins.” The audacity was just so fab. I remember the video with the fisheye lens, the see-through dress and the blonde wig. And she started off with: “What the bloodclaat?/Wanna bumble with the bee, huh?/Throw a hex on the whole family.” I didn’t know what a hex was until I was maybe 16, but I could spit that [expletive] word for word.
I was a theater kid, and Lil Wayne, for sure, was like a thespian. It was theatrical and the jokes were funny . “Cannon” is probably one of the best Lil Wayne verses ever. [Raps “Cannon” for 30 seconds]
But my favorite rapper of all time is Styles P, from hearing the Lox at block parties. Then we had the DatPiff era, so I would download like, “Ghost in the Machine.” I just like how unrehearsed he is. And the swag. He was talking to you rather than trying to create a fantastical world.
We actually have a song together on my first mixtape. He did it for free. I’ve done collabs with other male rappers that will probably never see the light of day because I wouldn’t sign their record deal. Like, damn, Yeezy — I loved you my entire life and that’s what you do?
I started rapping because I had this boyfriend who rapped and they would do these cyphers. If your bars were wack, they would, like, snatch the blunt from you, you know? I skipped the cypher for like two weeks and I came back with a vengeance. I had to learn all these different words for “firearm.” I wrote “Seventeen” over that Ladytron beat and when they passed me the blunt that day, I came out with: “I’m not the don diva/I’m beyond ya don skeezers/I get cake from quick chicks with long heaters.” They was like, “Ohhhhhh. Shorty, you can rap! You should record that!”
The very first record that I ever recorded was into a microphone in a sock in this guy’s closet, in between all these Supreme jackets. Two weeks later, I was featured on the Fader blog. I blew up overnight and then it was just kind of like, OK, I have a job to do now.
I think that all of that theatrical training definitely helped. When it came to “212,” that white girl Valley Girl voice, I was really just making fun of dumb bitches who come to New York for like two years and are like, I’m a New Yorker !
I think that everyone at XL Recordings forgot that I was 17. I felt like there was no mentorship. Everybody just kind of abandoned me and expected me to know what they wanted.
At the same time, they had just signed Odd Future, who were super, super duper crass. I won’t lie — I was so jealous just watching them put all this love into Odd Future. Just to see them be given the support to be kids. It’s a classic tale of boys can do whatever they want, but girls need to be like, prim and proper. I sent “212” in to XL and they dropped me. It was 100% a bunch of misogynoir.
I was thinking maybe I should go get a GED and go to college. Then I just get this phone call from Nick Grimshaw on BBC Radio 1, and he’s played it like a million times. I didn’t even know what BBC Radio 1 was. And then very quickly you go from getting paid $150 and a bottle of Smirnoff to perform to getting like, 5,000 euros at some weird charity event. I’d never had 5,000 anything all at once in my hands, ever. All I could think was, I’m going to get a weave and a laptop.
One thing leads to another, and then I’m at Karl Lagerfeld’s house. I didn’t even know who Karl Lagerfeld was when he invited me to perform at his house in Paris. I didn’t know what Coachella was when I got booked for Coachella. That Coachella date in 2012, it was like, all right, I’m here. I’m a star.
Jimmy Iovine, the very first day I met him, he said to me, “The best thing you can do for a woman is get the [expletive] out of her way.” He actually bought me my first, like, three pairs of Louboutins, my first Chanel bag, my first real bottle of perfume. He was always a gentleman and he always thought my jokes were funny.
“212” was such an anomaly that no one has been able to successfully build upon it outside of me. What I see is people doing an Azealia Banks impression, and that is partially due to just the belief that a woman couldn’t be the mastermind behind the sound, the aesthetic, the everything. I’m still alive, girls.
There’s no magic in hip-hop now. Hip-hop has been taken from us and used as a weapon against us. No one is talking about anything. Just for the record: All these little new rap girls — they really suck.
LIL B
In 2003, I wrote a book report in middle school that was about hip-hop. That’s as real as it gets, man. From a middle-school me: “Hip-hop to me is an art form, a style, a genre, an influence and a lifestyle. It’s a different type of music style that does not sound like any other type of music. It’s like a baggy, nice, shiny type of clothing.”
I’m walking the beach right now, and I’ve also got an article that I tore out of XXL magazine in 2005, about when Lil Wayne performed at Club Speed, Dec. 19, 2004. It’s hilarious because you’re talking about 500-plus attendees. Now obviously Wayne can do stadiums. That’s my early motivation. Ain’t it crazy later I made the XXL freshmen list? These papers I’ve saved have been through fires. It’s very, very personal to me.
Gucci Mane, Lil Wayne, you know, they set the bar. They set the bar still to this day. It was so much inspiration out here in the Bay, too, from E-40, Too Short, Mistah F.A.B., Turf Talk, Keak da Sneak, listening to 106 [KMEL], listening to Wild 94.9. I feel like I really seen it from a unique perspective.
You’ve got to realize, there was a time where I was the only one doing what I was doing. I was outside at a time when people were saying music was dead, and I was still pushing. It hurt my heart when Nas said hip-hop was dead, and I made it my mission to make sure hip-hop stayed alive. This was before the iPhone.
Just hearing my mom and my dad say they’re proud of me, knowing they have seen me do my thing independently, unsigned. It’s 40, Short, Master P and myself, Brandon McCartney. We did the Jive Records thing with the Pack. I’ve been doing my own thing ever since. I’ve been managing Lil B.
Soulja Boy is a real legend and an inspiration, a pioneer with the music, early on YouTube. He was really at the anime store back then, you know what I’m saying? He don’t get no credit for that. It’s a lot of hype around anime now, but he was going to the store early.
I always looked at myself as giving out swag. I say that humbly. There’s people that have the fire that I see. I appreciate Lil Yachty — he was always holding it down and then taking his career to a whole ’nother level, showing me what’s possible, doing Sprite deals. Future, Tyler, the Creator. Chief Keef — I was changing the game with the music video stuff on YouTube and then he took it the next level. Now I could be influenced off Playboi Carti, you know what I’m saying? And Young Thug took it to the next level.
I’ve still got a lot of homework to do with this hip-hop, right? I need to do my homework on De La Soul. I need to do my homework on Slum Village. I’ve got to really do my Public Enemy homework, you know? What’s the gentleman’s name — MC Serch and his group? A little bit of Beastie Boys homework. It’s so many beautiful people that’s added to this genre and to the culture.
E-40
I call myself the greatest game-spitter of all time. A game-spitter is somebody that spit that slang, the street [expletive], all angles. I might touch down on a pimp. I might touch down on being over the stove, twisting the pot counterclockwise, serving the dope wet. I might talk about when a guy about to get jacked, or about to pull a lick, or when he’s going to get his head tore off, you know? It was whole ’nother angle of the game that the Bay Area was on back then.
I was the first rapper talking about zippers — calling ounces “zippers,” that’s 28 grams. I was the first one calling them “units.” I was the first rapper screaming “choppers” — it came from Chicago, from Al Capone. I could document all that. Everybody’s saying “slaps” — I brought that to the rap game. It came from me, Earl Stevens, E-40, hands down.
So many things didn’t come out of my brain; it came from the streets. When rappers are from the urban community, they talk about their surroundings and what they done picked up here and there — in the pen, wherever they at. That’s me.
In Oakland in the ’80s, the local D-boy would have enough gouda to shoot Too Short some money — it could’ve been $500, it could’ve been a thou-wow — to make a song just about them. Calvin T and Magic Mike, from Richmond, Calif., they were doing the same thing. These are local songs circulating through dubbed tapes. They were a big influence on me.
And Ice-T. He was speaking a language that most of us was living. People don’t give him enough credit. We have a mutual love and respect for each other because game recognize game. He seen my whole hustle in the underground, selling tapes out the trunk of a car.
I was a rapper that invested in myself. We was doing this when Moby Dick was a goldfish. A&Rs didn’t get what we was talking about. A lot of times it would go over their head like a flying saucer, you know what I’m saying? That’s just the same as out there with 8Ball & MJG, Master P. Everybody was doing it independently. When we did independent music we did it by force, not by choice. I signed my distribution deal with Jive Records in 1994. The whole Bay Area followed my blueprint after that.
When I came out with “Ghetto Report Card,” I was 37, 38 years old. My whole career was just revived. It was amazing. I was part of the crunk movement and the hyphy movement at the same time. “U and Dat,” “Snap Yo Fingers” and so on. We had the South and the West Coast.
Imagine if there was streaming back then when we had “Tell Me When to Go,” “Bitch,” “Choices.” We would be diamond on each one of those records. I put new life into the West Coast in 2006. And that’s no ifs, ands or buts. Can’t nobody say I didn’t, with the help of Lil Jon. And it’s never stopped since then.
That’s my role — they call me the Ambassador of the Bay. And I don’t know nobody else there that represents it like me.
EMINEM
My Uncle Ronnie had the “Breakin’” soundtrack. I was, like, 11 years old, and he played me Ice-T’s “Reckless” before I’d seen the movie. Uncle Ronnie used to breakdance and he taught me a little bit, showing me some moves. From that moment I knew there was nothing else — no other kind of music that I would ever like again — aside from rap.
We used to bounce back and forth from Missouri, and shortly after that we moved to Detroit, and we were staying at my Grandma Nan’s house. I had a tape player, and I found WJLB. There was this DJ named the Wizard. He would play from, like, 10 to 11. I would just hit record on my tape and I’d go to sleep and get up for school to see what I got: “Go See the Doctor,” Kool Moe Dee, UTFO. I just wanted everything — give me everything that rap has: Run-DMC, Fat Boys, LL.
Every time LL dropped something it was, like, he was the best, no one’s touching him. LL Cool J was everything to everybody. You know, I always wanted a Kangol.
My first rap, I was 12-ish, when LL Cool J, “Bad,” came out. I would be, like, just walking around my Aunt Edna’s house, thinking of rhymes and writing thoughts down. It was a complete LL bite, but it was something that I dabbled in. I would be sitting in school sometimes and a line would hit me.
And then Run-DMC would drop a new album and you’d be, like, “This is the craziest [expletive] I’ve ever heard.” “Yo, this is as good as rap can get, lyrically.” And then Rakim changed the way people thought about rap.
It just kept advancing to the next level. I was there to watch its conception and its growth. Everybody was trying to one-up each other. It went from rhyming one- or two-syllable words to rhyming four and five and six. Then Kool G Rap came along and he would rhyme seven, eight, nine, 10.
But I was a sponge. I would gravitate towards the compound-syllable rhyming, like the Juice Crew. Lord Finesse, to Kool G Rap, to Big Daddy Kane, to Masta Ace, Redman, Special Ed. I don’t even think I understood why I liked it. I had a couple of friends that had to point out to me how many syllables somebody was rhyming.
And then Treach from Naughty by Nature came along and he was doing all that, too. He was cool, too — his image and everything. I wanted to be him. When the first Naughty by Nature album dropped, that whole summer, I couldn’t write a rap. “I’ll never be that good; I should just quit.” I was so depressed, but that’s all I played for that summer. Proof thought Treach was the best rapper, too. Every time he would drop an album I would just be, like, Son of a bitch.
Nas, too. I remember The Source gave “Illmatic” five mics. I already knew I liked Nas from “Live at the Barbeque” with Main Source, because his verse on that is one of the most classic verses in hip-hop of all time. But I was, like, “Five mics, though? Let me see what this is.”
And when I put it on, “And be prosperous/though we live dangerous/Cops could just arrest me/Blamin’ us/We’re held like hostages.” He was going in and outside of the rhyme scheme, internal rhymes. That album had me in a slump, too. I know the album front to back.
There was three or four years, maybe, where I kind of dipped out of listening to rap. I was so on the grind in the underground. I didn’t have money to buy any tapes. Every dollar, every dime that I had went to either studio time or to buy Hailie diapers.
Tuesday night I would go to the Ebony Showcase on Seven Mile. Wednesday night would be Alvin’s. Friday night would be Saint Andrew’s. And then Saturday would be the Hip Hop Shop.
Proof was hosting open mics at the Hip Hop Shop, and they started having battles. The first one that I got in — it was actually the first battle there — I won. And then the second battle, I won it again. I realized maybe I should try to go out of state. So I would hop in the car with friends and drive down to Cincinnati for the Scribble Jam.
Back then, you had to go off the top of the head. If you didn’t you’d get booed offstage. So I learned from watching Proof that you can freestyle, but just have a couple lines in the back of your head, a couple of punchlines you know you want to use, and then freestyle around that.
Coming up in the battle scene was the greatest thing to happen to me because I knew what lines were going to get a reaction from the crowd. That’s what I would focus on. So when I got signed with Dre, I was trying to translate that to record, to get that reaction. I would picture the listener sitting there and what lines they might react to. I just used that as a formula. Like, “How you gonna breastfeed, Mom?/You ain’t got no tits.”
When the first Onyx album dropped, Sticky Fingaz was so great at saying that kind of [expletive]: “I’m thinking about taking my own life/I might as well, except they might not sell weed in hell.” And Bizarre was really great at that. If we reacted to it, then we thought other people would, too. That shaped my whole career, you know?
BUN B
When I was young, I was immersing myself in the music, but I don’t actually want to become an MC until “Microphone Fiend.” And this is after I fall in love with the Juice Crew — Kool G Rap, Big Daddy Kane became huge influences on me. I’m writing rhymes at this time. The “Microphone Fiend” video comes on “Rap City,” and that’s when I decide I really want to be a rapper, ’cause this is the coolest [expletive] I’ve ever seen in my life, and I really want to be seen as this cool.
You don’t really start hearing Houston hip-hop until KTSU starts playing it. That’s the radio station for Texas Southern University. There were guys like R.P. Cola, Billy Dee, these were the guys that were actually in the clubs having freestyle battles. Around that same time as Akshen, but that’s still very under the radar. “Another Head Put to Rest,” that’s not playing on the radio. It’s too much cursing. You hear “Car Freak” and stuff like that, but it really doesn’t come together until the Geto Boys “Balls and My Word.” That’s when the idea of making music and putting it out was not as far-fetched as it seemed.
I start writing about ’88. Juice Crew, Rakim, that’s the technical level at which I’m aspiring to operate. The use of metaphors, manipulating the English language, rhyming mid-word, putting together as many similar-sounding words as possible. And I feel like I should be pretty good at it because I’m pretty good at school, right? I make really good grades in English. I know more words than most of my friends. I should be able to figure out how to incorporate some of that into rhymes. I tried it initially, it was terrible. Like [expletive] would’ve had to literally sit down and get a dictionary. And people don’t really want to do that.
A lot of this realization is Pimp’s influence on me. He was like, man, this [expletive] gotta jam. People gotta be able to see theyself when they see you and hear theyself when they hear you. If you want to be good on a technical level and compare your rhymes to rocket ships and cellular biology or molecular biology or whatever, that’s cool. But at the end of the day, people gotta dance to that [expletive].
When we first started putting out music, I say there might have been 50 rappers in all of Houston at the time. But when we first went to New York in ’92 to sign with Jive, the first three white people we met in New York were rappers. Like the bellman: “So what are you guys doing here? You rap? Oh man, I’m a rapper!” Pizza guy: “You’re here to sign a record deal? Put me on, I’m a rapper.” The driver the next day: “You guys rap, I guess? You’re going to the Jive building. I do a little something-something.” And all of these guys white! The weed guy was like, “You guys are rappers? I rap too.” And he was white as well.
In the earliest years of my career, I wanted to try to vocalize how hard I felt I was and how tough I felt I was. I eventually realized it was not about being the hardest, it was really about being just hard enough and being able to be enough of what was needed in that room at that time.
So if I’m in a room with a bunch of Ruthless Records [expletive], there’s a certain way I gotta move and carry myself, but eventually when I get to the mic, everybody understands who we are. Same thing would happen if I would’ve ended up in a room with Q-Tip and Busta in ’92. There’s certain assumptions that people are gonna draw about each other. And when I actually show my talent, that’s the unifying point.
I was fascinated by wordplay and that was the dominant style of music coming from the East Coast. But then I’m also from a very small town. There’s a lot of gangster [expletive] going on in my town. Crack is coming into the city. And so I know that if I rap, I also have to be a reflection of that.
At one point I hear this song, Volume 10’s “Pistolgrip-Pump,” which sonically sounds nothing like us, much less anything at the time. The beat was dope. Then I hit the hook and I’m like, wait a minute, that’s me. It’s from one of my lines in “Pocket Full of Stones.” I never asked for a dime. I didn’t think that rappers charged other rappers. When I heard it, I was more like, damn, they know my [expletive] on the West Coast! And then he gets on another record and is like, “‘Pistolgrip’ was a hit!/UGK, I’d like to say what’s up.” I’m like, this is crazy!
We met Biggie in ’94. We’re on promo with Jive Records, and this is literally within three to five days of Craig Mack’s “Flava in Ya Ear” going gold. So we’re there, Craig’s there, Big’s there, and everybody’s really fawning over Craig Mack. But obviously we wanted to meet Biggie.
We go over and we introduce ourselves and he’s like, “I know who y’all are. Y’all are on the ‘Menace’ soundtrack. Y’all got the ‘Pockets’ joint — I was out there with Eiht, I told him y’all got the best record on the soundtrack.”
We were very flattered and taken aback at that. And keep in mind, this is when we’re in possession of the bootleg from Biggie, but I’m trying not to allude to that. I don’t know how he might receive it.
We had weed, we offered to smoke with him. So we go out to the car to smoke and I offer him the front seat and he’s like, nah, I’m gonna sit in the back if that’s OK. And he never closes the door on the car. I’m trying to hotbox, right? I’m trying to get the doors closed, get the windows up, but he’s not going for it. And come to find out, ’cause he didn’t really know us like that, he didn’t want to sit in the front seat ’cause he didn’t want dudes he didn’t know behind him. And he needed the door open because he would need a little bit of a head start if he needed to make a quick getaway.
KOOL KEITH
I was a popular dancer in high school and I saw rap from the B-boy stance when rap was being plugged up into the streetlights. When I was going to school, the Cold Crush Brothers were going to school with me. It wasn’t until the mid-80s that I started rapping, which turned into Ultramagnetic MCs.
I met Ced Gee when we were going to high school together and we formed the group. We listened to the Treacherous Three, who would use a lot of big words in their raps. They were using words nobody was using. We looked at the Treacherous Three like, This is the point of hip-hop. I want to rhyme like this. I don’t want to do the “Yes, yes y’all, ya don’t stop the body rock!” They put pen to paper. Now rap was about vocabulary. It was no longer baby rhymes.
T La Rock was one of the most high-tech rappers at that time with the technical words. I was hanging with Greg Nice. We had a chance to see everybody from the super old-school acts all the way up to Spoonie Gee, Run-DMC and Whodini. They were all out with records before we even had a deal.
At the time there was a craze happening where everyone was using TV-show themes. So we waited for that craze to go by and that’s when rap started going heavy with the samples. It became MC Shan, Eric B. & Rakim and then Ultra. So when “Ego Trippin’” came out, that was like the third record that shocked everybody like, Wow, this is different!
We pressed up 500 copies of “Ego Trippin’.” We hit Red Alert off, and I delivered the records straight to Marley Marl’s house. I remember Big Daddy Kane was in the kitchen. That’s where Marley had his mic set up.
Marley was really open to it. He spun it on WBLS. And then I gave Chuck Chillout a copy in person. I remember me and Funkmaster Flex used to talk in his car about different rappers.
To be honest, a lot of rappers were jealous of Ultramagnetic MCs, but when “Ego Trippin’” came out, there was nothing you could do because every car had it playing up and down the block. You would hear it in every project. All you would hear is “MC’s Ultra! MC’s Ultra!” everywhere you went. I would go through the projects and people would scream and we didn’t even have a video out. I wasn’t popular on TV. I don’t know how people had a vision of knowing a person without even seeing them on social media, on Instagram. Back then it was more about the flyers and posters and people seeing you on a show with Boogie Down Productions.
If you listen to the second verse of “Ego Trippin’,” I was just making the words fit on a beat. I wasn’t trying to rhyme: “Through the scientific matter I probe for evidence/Leading melodies obtaining slight positive beams/Of the average formulation, apply mechanically.” And people didn’t even know what I was doing because the first verse of the record was more straight rap. The beat was so hot and the chorus was so dramatic that you didn’t even realize the second verse didn’t rhyme.
At that time, I liked Lakim Shabazz. I liked Latee’s “This Cut’s Got Flavor” and stuff like that. But once we were out, I tried not to follow rap in a lyrical way because I thought that if I listened to everybody’s rhymes a lot, I wouldn’t have my own originality. I used to buy funk records like Con Funk Shun because I was a dancer. I bought Undisputed Truth and Cameo. My main inspiration was Slave. That’s why Ultra’s music was like that. I didn’t grow up on jazz. I didn’t know about Ron Carter or Ronnie Laws.
When I started the Dr. Octagon project, I had so much material piled up that I had to break it up into different characters. People thought I was just being weird, but I was being a businessman. A lot of artists were stuck as just one person. They had to do a record deal with that same style again. But I had a lot of ideas. I think that’s why Parliament-Funkadelic opened my mind up. They had Brides of Funkenstein, they had Sir Nose, Funkadelic and Parliament. George Clinton broke his group up into so many different parts. So that’s what I felt like: a one-person Parliament-Funkadelic.
During that time, I tended to like the peculiar people. I liked the artists that had flows, like Fiend and Mac from No Limit. But a lot of the rappers couldn’t adapt to different sounds. That made me feel like, OK, I’m going to create a Dr. Octagon. I’m going to create a Dr. Dooom. I’m going to create a Black Elvis. But all of those characters are part of me.
KRAYZIE BONE
My first memory of hip-hop was when my older brother brought home the LL Cool J “Radio” tape. I remember him coming in the house and he threw the tape on the bed and was like, “You don’t know nothing about this.” And I put the tape into the radio and I never took it out. Never took it out, you know what I’m saying? I was like 12, 13. That’s what made me start writing my own raps, because I wanted to learn LL Cool J’s songs. I loved “You’ll Rock.” I still bump that to this day. The beat was hard, the lyrical flow — LL was before his time on that.
So I started writing down his lyrics and I saw the blueprint on how to write a rhyme. I wrote my own one day and I never stopped. All the songs I liked that I wanted to learn, I would write the lyrics down. I liked the continuous flow, like Big Daddy Kane and Biz Markie, Dana Dane and Slick Rick. We never liked when rappers would flow and they would pause and then they would go back.
The Bone Thugs style developed by just basically being in cyphers together. We would smoke weed either in my mother’s basement or at whoever’s house we was at, and we’d just start rhyming, working on our harmonies and everything. We knew each other and we knew we could rhyme but when the other four would say the ad-libs, it would sound like we was harmonizing. It’s nothing we did on purpose — we just started doing it and that was our style one day. We didn’t even know what we had until we would rap for people and they’d be like, “Y’all sound like the rapping Temptations or something.” Then when we got with Eazy-E, he would tell us, “This style is different. Y’all singing like singers, too.”
Before hip-hop, I was a Michael Jackson fanatic. I was a New Edition fanatic. R&B, that’s all my parents played. So I know about all the old-school R&B like the Isley Brothers. We just started mixing in some of those flows. If you listen to “1st of tha Month” and “Days of Our Livez,” we just started picking old-school songs and putting our harmonies to it.
Singers liked what we were doing. When our management got a call about Mariah Carey wanting to do a record with us, at the time, we didn’t even really understand how big Mariah Carey was. We knew of her, but we were so wrapped up in our newfound fame, we were just in our own little world. So, like, we almost didn’t even go. We was on the plane contemplating, about to get off the plane, but something just made us stay on the plane.
When we got there, she said basically she loved our style. She loved our flow, how different it was. I’m glad we didn’t get off the plane.
We also got love from Bobby Womack when he was alive. I got a chance to meet his daughters and they told me, “Yo, my father loved y’all music. He played y’all music all the time. He turned us on to y’all.” That really shocked me. I was like, Wow, the O.G. It made me feel good because I came up loving his music. It was cool to tell my parents, like, “Hey, guess who listens to Bone? Bobby Womack.” My pops was like, “What?!’” He loved that.
FABO
We came up off Michael Jackson, my mama listening to James Brown, my grandpa was really into Curtis Mayfield, my uncle listening to Run-DMC, New Edition. We were singers — I came up in the era where you were still going out there trying to sing to the girl to catch her, you know?
My very first memory of hip-hop was sitting down with my brother, rewinding Bone Thugs-n-Harmony trying to learn “1st of tha Month”: “Wake up, wake up, wake up.” That was when it really hit me, like, this is what I want to do.
I’m from Bankhead, so I seen Kilo, the dope boy in the neighborhood who had made it, in his money-green Cadillac all the time. And I came in the rap game up under Raheem the Dream. These was our local heroes. They mean everything. That was our inspiration, but the world didn’t know them like that.
I was freestyling, winning the local talent show every week. And I started singing this song called “If You’re Down on Your Luck Say (Ow),” and everybody started singing it.
In the apartments, it was me and Young Dro. We ended up sparring against each other all the time, freestyling. This guy takes us down to Raheem the Dream. The rest is history.
When we left Raheem, I went to Shawty Lo. I’m in high school, and I was playing the tenor drums at the time. He was taking care of us. I moved right in and we started recording. He wasn’t a rapper at this time, mind you. Never asked me for rent, never asked me for anything. He did these basketball tournaments where all the neighborhoods would come play each other. That’s what brought a lot of Atlanta together.
When Jeezy and Gucci was going at it — that was when everybody in Atlanta was just, like, boom. I remember being in the club when “Stay Strapped” was out — like, “We need a song.” Killer Mike, T.I., all of them had those songs bunking. That was the moment. The old 112 was just closing down and Visions was the hottest club in Atlanta.
Lo used to always be pushing us. When Dem Franchize Boyz jumped off, I developed my style right there. I was like, they’re trying to rhyme like this, so I’m going to do something totally different. I started yelling and screaming on everything. I was, like, ain’t nobody doing this.
Right to this day, put “Tatted Up” on — you can put it up against any Grammy that’s ever been won. Just the end of the song — [ sings ] “Barbaraaaaaa!” People would be like, “Who is Barbara!?” That’s what I heard in the track, bro.
I’ve always been dancing. When the other guys made “Lean Wit It, Rock Wit It,” I was, like, “No, this is our movement.” I felt like I should’ve been given some type of credit. You can hear me on “Betcha Can’t Do It Like Me” — I felt offended.
I seen them on “Rap City” or something, and they asked who came up with the dance. And this guy goes, “Me.” I leaned back in my chair and was like, “Yo, turn the beat on.” And I got right in the booth. The snap era was intense, the competition.
With “Laffy Taffy” we went straight to MTV — BET wasn’t playing the song. We didn’t understand what crossing over was. We didn’t know that this was another level — like, “You’re No. 1.” I think we wanted to prove for a while that we wasn’t pop.
Anytime you see something that you don’t understand or that’s different, you’re going to look at it with that side-eye, you know? Nas said “hip-hop is dead,” I seen Ghostface Killah imitating the leg thing. But I’m just trying not to eat ketchup sandwiches anymore, dude.
I think when Busta Rhymes kicked it with us and jumped on the album, we started getting a little respect. And then Twista jumped on the record. People was like, “OK, well, these guys must have something.” These are two different characters from two different places that bought into the movement.
Future, Young Thug, all these cats showed me love. Drake, when he put that “snappin’ like you Fabo” in “Nice for What,” bro, my grandmother was like, “Drake said your name!” I’m one of the only artists to have a No. 1 single and have my name called in another No. 1 single.
PITBULL
My first memory of hip-hop would have to be around third grade when I first heard 2 Live Crew. Bass music was basically taking over Miami and, you know, you always wanna listen to what you’re not supposed to be listening to. You could hear it in the corner spots where they were washing cars and the flea markets. Another place where I would find music was this thing called the Box, that was basically something that you could see on local television. At the time that was our MTV before MTV.
But bass music has always been about underground. It’s all about pirate stations. It was all about, No. 1, finding a way to get this music out because nobody would believe in it. No. 2, it was too nasty, too dirty, too raunchy for them. And so we always had to find ways to get this out.
It always feels like we’re the underdogs in Miami, because we’re used to being counted out. Pirate radio, independent labels — that independence allows us to maneuver and navigate differently so we are not, for lack of a better term, choked by a major corporation or company.
I started the whole freestyle thing when I was about 15, 16 years old. I went to a lot of different schools in Miami. Lived in a lot of different neighborhoods, good neighborhoods, bad neighborhoods, worse neighborhoods. And Miami being the melting pot that it is, it allowed me to dibble and dabble in different genres and different cultures. So I could spit at you in English, Spanish, throw some patois at you, throw a little Creole in there as well.
A teacher happened to change my life. Her name is Hope Martinez, and she gave me an invitation to a DMX video shoot. I ended up battling an artist from the Ruff Ryders called Drag-On. It went eight rounds. I did my job, and Irv Gotti pulled me to the side and asked me, “Hey, do you write music?” I said, no, I just freestyle. He said, “Yeah, freestyle is great, but it don’t make no money.”
My brothers had a lot of Eric B. & Rakim, Pete Rock & CL Smooth, Black Moon — they had a lot of hip-hop. But what I really related to is when I heard Nas, “Illmatic,” when he’s using lines like “Got my first piece of ass, smokin’ blunts with hash/Now it’s all about cash in abundance.” You know, these are things I can relate to, these are things going on in my neighborhood.
B.I.G. was such an amazing storyteller. Pac was a revolutionist, Snoop had a flow that you never heard before and Jay-Z was the ultimate hustler-slash-entrepreneur at the time, and I grew up around a lot of entrepreneurs. They had their startups. They were looking for angel investors. They just had a different product. It was called cocaine.
Latins have always been involved in hip-hop, from the days of graffiti and breakdancing. You had your Mellow Man Ace, you had your Kid Frost. You even had Gerardo, which is what really broke Interscope Records. Then you had Cypress Hill, where you had a Mexican and a Cuban represented at the same time. And then you have Fat Joe, and from Fat Joe, you have Big Pun. Pun was arguably one of the best rappers ever in the history of hip-hop. He just didn’t have the time to prove himself.
Now remember I grew up around merengue and salsa. And then around dancehall reggae, and you have reggaeton, all this that you could throw in the pot with rap. I was never afraid to think out of the box. People don’t want to try that because it might mess with their credibility. I say if you’re worried about your credibility, you were never credible in the first place.
The person that really pulled me to the side, this had to be about 2002, was Lil Jon. He said, “You need to rap more in Spanish. I see how you flipping it. I see how you taking it in and out, but you need to rap more in Spanish.” So he’s the one that really saw it and said, there’s gonna be a lane here. And sure enough, the lane exploded, in the middle of hip-hop, crunk and reggaeton. And that’s where I was at.
DJ JUBILEE
I started DJing in 1982. I went to college in ’84. I was on the microphone then. I was doing all the parties in North Louisiana, Grambling State University. But when I graduated and I came home, I started DJing the high school dances. I used to bring local rappers in, but they used to come in cussing so much I couldn’t really put them on the mic because we at a high school dance. So we started making up certain dances after that. When I saw somebody do something, I’d just name it.
A friend of mine named Tyrone Jones had did a slide dance one time, we was at Grambling State University during the homecoming. So when I went back to New Orleans, I started doing the dance and then I just put my name on it. I started saying “do the Jubilee, do the Jubilee.” Then the next week, two other guys in the St. Thomas named Chris and Beanhead, they came and did the Beenie Weenie.
So now every week, somebody come with a different dance. We got different areas bringing up different dances. You got the Magnolia came with the Eddie Bow, the Calliope Projects came with the Jerk, and the St. Thomas came with the Jubilee All, the KC, the Law Law, the Eldon Delloyd, the Sissy Leroy, the Sissy Chris. So we had multiple dances that’s going on every week, and that what’s made my high school dances the livest high school dances during the summertime.
So after that one day I just start making up a rhyme to it. “Stop, pause, stand up tall/Yeah, do the Jubilee, all/Do the Jubilee, all.” And next week, “Stop, pause, pass the towel/Yeah, and do the Eddie Bow.” And before you know it, I had like 26, 27 dances. I was forced to try to get it on an album because when I recorded in the club live, a friend of mine who was another DJ started selling the tape. He got $30!
That’s when DJ Jubilee was born. When I did “Jubilee All” and I dropped the tape, we put out 500 tapes in the stores, they all left the stores in five minutes. People started calling back, “Man, you got more?” So that took me away from the DJing to the music business.
For bounce, there’s the originators: you got TT Tucker, DJ Jimi, Everlasting Hitman, Pimp Daddy. Those was the rappers in the foundation of our music. When I changed the whole game from rapping to dancing, then you had multiple artists that came after me — Choppa, Hot Boy Ronald, Big Freedia, Katey Red.
When I started saying, “Back that thang up, back that thang up,” I didn’t know that that was going to take off like it did. “Get Ready, Ready!” was already hot when my “Back That Thang Up” came out. You know how girls started bending over and then walking up back into you?
Once I hit that chorus line — “First ya wiggle ya leg, cause ya ’bout to get rough/Won’t ya bend it on over/Now back that thang up, back that thang up” — that really influenced the whole city. Women started shaking it even more. But the best part about my stuff there? All of it was made up in the street at a block party. It was made up at a high school dance.
I signed a multimillion-dollar deal with Tommy Boy — 1998, I was hot, they flew me down to Miami, I did the Impact Convention, $100,000 signing bonus. It was supposed to be a seven-album deal, $3 million. I still got the contract. But when I came back a couple of months later, they changed their phone numbers on us. I’m still kind of like puzzled how it happened. I dropped the song in ’98. I was hot all the way through ’98.
When ’99 came around, somebody said Juvenile got a song called “Back That Thang Up.” I didn’t hear it at first, but a kid at the high school played for me. He was shooting a video at City Park in New Orleans, so I went to the video shoot. He had a little rhyme to it and that catch phrase, “back that thang up,” he did it a little different. We went to court. We tried to prove copyright infringement, but they didn’t see it that way. I lost the lawsuit. But I think I really influenced it because he knew my song was the hottest.
His blew up, took off. If you ever noticed, he says, “Cash Money Records taking over for the ’99 and the 2000.” Well, I dropped this in January ’98. But years passed by, we’re still friends today. We still do concerts today. We’re all grown. That was supposed to be my time for me to blow up, to make all my money. But I guess God didn’t plan it that way.
STYLES P
That era, the late ’80s and ’90s, was like the Marvel Universe but for rappers — same universe, different heroes. It felt like we were witnessing the evolution, the growth of this thing we have.
What I felt was always great was the Native Tongues, from De La Soul, A Tribe Called Quest to Queen Latifah to Black Sheep. It was always dope to have people — especially during that time period when it was pretty rough in the ’80s, early ’90s — have that amount of confidence to be different. It solidified how dope they were, because most people were just emulating what was hot. I think De La and Tribe was good especially for young fellas on the block who didn’t want to be a drug dealer, you know what I’m saying? To know I could be cool and not be into violence. I thought that that was an important element to add into what was going on.
In our lane, we were looking at Mobb Deep, M.O.P., Wu-Tang, those three immediately come to mind. Nas kind of ushered in our age class, and what was going on with the youth outside during that time period. He was a child of the grandmasters, I would say. He was definitely a product of Kane, Kool G Rap, KRS-One and Rakim, but mixed with what was going on outside at that time. We’re getting cars and chains and nice gear and all of that off of the streets, but we into our rhymes. The Golden Era babies is what I like to call us. I don’t think before that nor after that was ever as competitive as that time period.
Kool G and Kane are on “The Symphony,” but there is no Kane and KRS song, no Kane and Rakim song. In the ’90s, though, you was hopping on verses with each other, you got people from different boroughs, different places. You couldn’t be trash during that era — you was not getting recognized. I would never disrespect those who came before me, but there was people out when Rakim, Kane, Kool G Rap, KRS, EPMD, Jungle Brothers, all of them was out that was absolute trash and still getting recognition, getting honored, getting love. During Mobb Deep, Wu, us, Nas, Hov, Big, Rae, Ghost, you couldn’t say a trash verse or you was trash. Our whole career was that competition. I definitely believe people got scared to put us on their records.
But let’s even take albums out the mix. With mixtapes, you wanted to be in that No. 1 slot. So if you know anything about the Lox in the mixtape era, we was always the No. 1 slot. I remember going to DJ Clue sessions and seeing different artists there and going, oh, we’re gonna absolutely make the illest record. This gotta be No. 1 when the tape come on. I remember doing the Stretch Armstrong freestyle going, oh no, we gotta burn this. This is Stretch. This is getting heard.
And then after that period, everybody’s all super friendly. Internet fame and Instagram and Twitter and all of this to where it’s a lot of fluff. Celebrities like being with other celebrities, but they wasn’t trying to burn nobody on the mic. I can’t say the whole era is guilty — Cole is gonna try to burn you, Kendrick’s gonna try to burn you. But that don’t stand for the whole. They just rather stand with each other, take a picture and be dope, get in the studio, make a catchy song but not really try to burn each other. So I feel fortunate we came from the most competitive time period in hip-hop that may ever exist.
I’m from the Lox. When you’re in a group, that natural sense of competitiveness comes out. You want the best for the group, but nobody ever wants to be second fiddle. You don’t wanna get ate. Never. I never make a verse and go, I want to have the least favorite verse. Never. I always want the best verse. If it doesn’t happen, I’m cool and I’m comfortable and it is what it is. It’s like ballplayers getting on the court. Yeah, you on your team and you want the team to win, but who goes, “I want him to win M.V.P.”? Nobody.
SLUG
When I first became aware of “Rapper’s Delight,” it was my dad’s music. It was him playing it in his car, right next to Earth, Wind & Fire. I remember it reminding me a little bit of “Sesame Street.” It wasn’t until Run-DMC happened that I was like, this is not my dad’s music. I think he was not into it, maybe? And that made me go, oh, you don’t like that? I love it.
Melle Mel, I love him to death. He’s probably my first favorite rapper. But he was an old man to me. Run-DMC, even though they were older than me, it didn’t have that feeling. These are teenagers yelling at me. Run-DMC made me start buying records. They pushed me to become a full-time 11-year-old advocate in South Minneapolis.
By ’88, the golden year when all the great records came out, I had a crate of records, really good ones. I knew how to mix, so I was able to make blend tapes for people at school. Also in ’88, I started rapping in talent shows, but not because I wanted to be a rapper. It was just more eyes on me. I would’ve been a breakdancer. I would’ve been a backup dancer for you.
There was an older rapper, Spawn, who wanted me to be his DJ. At one point, he was like, Hey, you still rap? Why don’t you do a song with me instead of just being the DJ? The first song that I rapped on with him was very Das EFX-like. He did the production, very Beatnuts-influenced. And I’m rapping iggity piggity diggitys. I had not found my voice yet. I was still in that abyss of I can do iggitys, I can do a high voice like Sadat X, I know how to write straightforward like Ice Cube. I could do my version of all these people that I loved. It’s so far removed from what I eventually became known for.
Me and Spawn would show up at battles. I was a little younger. I was a little feistier. People saw me as a target back then. I didn’t care if I won, which is the most dangerous kind of battle because I will say some [expletive] that was super mean or harsh or degrading, and didn’t even care if it rhymed. So I was also creating adversaries, and that played as much of a role as reinforcing to me that I’m supposed to do this as any validation from the audience.
I worked retail at the time. And so I was as tapped in as anybody in the city could be. I was looking at Rawkus, they had some money behind it that they didn’t ever talk about. Seeing L.A. and what was happening with Freestyle Fellowship and that scene there, all amazing artists, knowing they get a lot of attention. They’re critical darlings.
I looked at all this like, y’all don’t know what real independence is. We’re here in Minneapolis where nobody’s checking for it. The only thing more independent than us is a rapper in Des Moines. Like, I would sleep on your couch in Dallas in order to show up the next day and rap for 20 minutes in the clothes that I slept in the night before. I really didn’t give a [expletive].
It gave me a freedom of nobody’s really listening, so I can take risks maybe that I wouldn’t be able to take if I was signed to Tommy Boy. I’m glad I said Tommy Boy, because that brings me to De La, who were a huge influence on the type of risks that I wanted to take.
I feel like I always kind of gravitated towards the people who were like, how do I either intentionally stand out or how do I express myself how I want to and still sound good?
Early on, when a rap crew would drop an album and all my friends would be like, oh my God, Grand Puba is so good, I would be like, what? No, Sadat X is the one. Kool Keith was the one in Ultramag. Everybody else was kinda like, oh, Ced Gee, he’s really rapping. What is Kool Keith talking about? I don’t care what he’s talking about — listen to him. Zev Love X, the style that he wrote with. De La, the style that they wrote with, specifically Posdnuos, but also Trugoy. I love A Tribe Called Quest. What I liked about Q-Tip’s style was that he would just figure out a way to say it that nobody’s ever said it like that before.
The emotional storytelling I ended up doing had less to do with an audience and more to do with what kind of life experience I was trying to have. I was heavily under the influence of the romanticism of people like Charles Bukowski. The drinkers and the tragedies. I wasn’t much for parties, but I liked caves. I liked dark spaces with a couple of people getting wasted, talking until the sun comes up, and then waking up the next day and not remembering what we did. I was fueled by waking up and not knowing where I was. It was a blurry couple of years, but it was very impactful because it was at the same time that my career was starting to do things.
People were validating the [expletive] that I was writing, and they were saying things to me not about my rapping, not about the songs, but about the actual words. All of this is feeding into my ego, and so I leaned into it because of how good it felt. And because, you know, let’s keep it simple, whatever traumas I had as a child needed to be dealt with. This was my self-medication for it. I didn’t know yet that the easiest colors to paint with are the darker colors.
It would’ve been this way if I had been a plumber, though. I would’ve been a messy plumber.
STIC
My older brother, who is eight years my senior, had brought some records home, and it was something that I had never heard. We were in Shadeville, dirt road Florida. We weren’t in the Bronx. He tells me, “This is called hip-hop. There’s a DJ and there’s a rapper, an MC.” He was like, “We’re going to do hip-hop.” I was maybe 8, 9. It was this group called Whistle, “Just Buggin’.” OK. Boom. And then my job was to start studying.
I would write LL Cool J’s rhymes, I would write KRS-One’s rhymes, I would write Big Daddy Kane’s rhymes on notebook paper. I didn’t have none of these terms for the technical things at that time, but I did it based on the breathing. “OK, this is where he’s taking a breath.” So I’d start another line.
I also listened to other music besides just New York. Too Short was a huge influence on me. I used to try to remember all them 80,000-bar verses he had.
I got kicked out of high school for rapping, actually, at a Black History Month assembly. They said it incited a riot.
I was known as the little rapping dude, and my teacher in ninth grade, Ms. Green, was the only Black lady I had seen in the school system with a natural ’fro. She stopped me in the hallway one day and she goes, “Do you know that in all the history of this school, in this racist institution, y’all ain’t never even had a Black history assembly?”
She was like, “I’m going to give you an opportunity: You can take your talent and do something with it. If you write a rap for Black history, I’mma let you perform at the first Black history assembly this school has ever seen.” And I was like, “Uhhh, I get to rock? Bet.”
She took me to the library — I remember because I skipped lunch — and she pulled out these three books. The first page I open up, I see Huey P. Newton. And I’m like, “Who is this?” Because it look like my cousin Carlo, right?
I ended up writing a song titled “Black As I Can Get.” What they seemed to have a big problem with was, “I ain’t no Uncle Tom/To hell with Uncle Sam.” When I said that, they cut the mic off, turned the lights on and everything. Next thing you know it was a melee.
PHONTE
The most vivid memory of hip-hop that I have is my uncle Brod, he took me to the Fresh Fest when it came to the Greensboro Coliseum. This had to be like ’85, ’86. It was Run-DMC, the Fat Boys and Whodini, and yeah, I think my fate was sealed after seeing that. My uncle bought me a Fat Boys T-shirt. I remember Run going back and forth across the stage, just the stage presence. Whodini — God, rest in peace, Ecstasy. He came out, he had the hat on, “Freaks Come Out At Night,” all of that. I remember just feeling that energy and being like, “Yeah, this is what I want to do.”
The biggest influence on how I rhymed was probably Big Daddy Kane. I always liked how Kane was. He was kind of every man, he could do it all. He could battle, he could talk to the ladies. He could be the mack, the cool pimp guy, whatever. He was smart. He would dance. He was the total package. And so my mic technique was definitely influenced by Kane, and that school of Kool G Rap, Rakim, that’s the cloth that I’m cut from in terms of that super precise flow. Sonic-wise, my biggest inspiration was A Tribe Called Quest. I wanted to rap like Kane, but I wanted our records to sound really lush and kind of beautiful, like a Tribe album, you know what I mean? That was kind of my M.O. and still is in a lot of ways, I think.
The hip-hop that I was raised on, a lot of it was Native Tongues. The Jungle Brothers, A Tribe Called Quest, De La Soul, and even Pete Rock and CL Smooth and Heavy D. There was always an element of singing of vocals in it. To me, it just felt like a natural extension of the records that I grew up listening to. I was born in ’78, so my mother, she always played R&B: Luther, Patti, Stevie. On our first album, “The Listening,” our first single, that’s me singing the hook.
If there was an album that was important to the way I worked, I would split the difference between two albums: “De La Soul Is Dead,” and “Death Certificate” by Ice Cube. I mean, “Death Certificate,” that was a movie on wax. It was no surprise to me that Ice Cube was able to transition into being a director and screenwriter, because he was making movies on his records back then. “Death Certificate,” I mean, I played the words off that album. Nowadays, I think sampling-wise, it would kind of be impossible to make. Well, impossible to legally make. And “De La Soul Is Dead” for reasons that, I mean, are kind of obvious, I can’t say enough about just how much I love that album, how much it influenced me.
When we were coming out, this was ’01, ’02, peak Soulquarians era. So this is the Roots, it’s Slum Village, it’s Common, it’s Black Star. It’s what Rawkus was doing at that time. I was very adamant on, “Listen dude, we’re not competing against other artists in North Carolina or other artists in our city. We’re competing against ‘Fantastic, Vol. 2,’ we’re competing against ‘Like Water for Chocolate.’ We’re competing against ‘Black on Both Sides.’ If we ain’t got nothing that’s coming with this level of smoke, then we just need to leave this alone, because that’s what we’re up against.”
BIG GIPP
My homeboy had to remind me last night, he said, “Gipp, do you realize that you’ve been involved in every era of music from Atlanta?” I said, “Wow.”
This lady named Jean Carne was a soul singer who moved to my neighborhood with her son Joseph — she had this song called “Closer Than Close.” The same year, a guy named Ray Murray moved into our neighborhood.
Once we got together, Ms. Carne bought her son our first studio. And I remember the first time he called us to say, “Yo, my mom bought me a studio,” because that was the same day LL Cool J dropped “Jack the Ripper.” It’s so cemented in my memory. We played that record over and over and over.
Ms. Carne started taking me around — that was my introduction to the music business. She is a cousin of Peabo Bryson. At her house, I got to meet Stevie Wonder, I got to meet New Edition — I got to meet the industry before I got into the industry. Her daughter had a birthday party and we went with the Jackson 5. Atlanta was filled with so many superstars, just because of the civil rights movement: Larry Blackmon was riding around, Curtis Mayfield was riding around, Kool & the Gang was riding around.
Ray started teaching me how to rap. The first records he gave me were the Last Poets, KRS-One, just to give me substance, you know? But I created myself through two artists: Chuck D of Public Enemy and Ice-T. I learned more from Chuck D than in school. Ice-T represented that player lifestyle — that caught a young dude real early. “Power,” I remember looking at the album cover like, “Yo! You’re my guy.”
I was working at a Red Lobster on Campbellton Road as a dishwasher, and one day I was listening to Public Enemy. This guy beside me was from New York. He said, “Hey, Gipp, you like that group?” I said, “I don’t like this group, I love this group.” He said, “Would you like to meet them?” I’m tripping because we in Red Lobster; we washing dishes. “Well, my name’s Mike. Professor Griff is my little brother. They’re coming to town and I’ll take you to meet them.”
He took me down to Fulton County Stadium, and I remember this night not for the concert, but because of the way that Chuck D came to the concert: They were headlining and Chuck D pulled up in a cab. That was something that stuck with me for the rest of my career.
N.W.A changed the whole temperature. It kind of stopped music for a minute. It really put the aggression into rap that wasn’t there before. And then came Geto Boys. When they say, “Who was the greatest in the South?” Scarface, period. As a kid, Scarface was our Ice Cube in the South.
Every day there was new music coming out. It was so exciting. Everywhere you go someone would be, like, “You heard this?” And it was such a change from being a kid in Atlanta, because Atlanta was so soul — there wasn’t nothing bigger than the Commodores, O’Jays, Gladys Knight, Curtis Mayfield.
Goodie Mob, we gave you the heart and soul of where we was from. We gave you everything that brought us up, everything we was made from, what our mothers taught us, how we were raised.
We didn’t come from the projects. I’ve always been around affluent Black people, religious Black people — that’s all I’ve ever seen. Drug dealers and gangsters had never been prevalent in the city because nothing could be bigger than the King. That’s the reason why you had Goodie Mob speaking the way we spoke. Even at a young age, we rapped like grown men. We still gave you “Dirty South,” we still took you into the projects, into the streets. We did all of that. We just did it from a place of always knowing we had something better.
It’s also because we were signed by Babyface and L.A. Reid. We were never on a rap label and all the things our counterparts were getting away with, we couldn’t get away with. I remember when Babyface was like, “A song ain’t a song until you have a hook and a bridge.” And that’s all he ever said to us.
I was very much influenced by wrestling. I got to see artists like Ric Flair, Dusty Rhodes, the Road Warriors all up close. The costumes — I knew what it did to people when they saw it. That’s the reason we started doing that in the Dungeon Family. We knew that if people didn’t understand us, maybe they would remember what we looked like.
Who would’ve knew Outkast and Goodie Mob could’ve been this? I don’t think anybody has a André 3000 in their crew but us. I don’t think anybody got a CeeLo Green in their crew but us. How could you beat somebody like us? All you’ve gotta do is say, “CeeLo, do some Gnarls Barkley,” and it’s over.
Every time the South creates a new style, they find something not to like about it. But if you think about it, we have not stopped since us. When you look at Future — that’s family, from the Dungeon — Ying Yang Twins, Lil Jon, Ludacris, T.I., Jeezy, Gucci Mane. They didn’t like the Migos at first!
As long as Atlanta has a strip club culture, we will always be ahead of everybody. Somebody could take a Young Thug record right out the studio at Patchwerk, go right into Magic City Monday, get the prettiest stripper to dance to it, and it’s a hit record! It’s just something that doesn’t stop working.
UNCLE LUKE
This DJ on the radio named Jimmy G, that was the first time I ever heard rap on the radio. He would put the instrumental on and be like, “One day of victory, one day of defeat/Got to learn to take the bitter with the sweet.” When you look back on it, he was rapping, before “Rapper’s Delight.”
He would play Sugarhill Gang and T La Rock and Divine Sounds and Cold Crush Brothers and Furious Five. I was a member of a record pool, so I started getting these records. I would book the artist and have them come down on PEOPLExpress and perform at my teen discos and clubs. Mantronix, Dr. Jeckyll & Mr. Hyde. Jazzy Jay, that was his first flight ever. Run-DMC, I used to bring them down, pay them 1,200 bucks.
When I brought 2 Live Crew down — that was a California crew then — I wasn’t interested in being no record executive. Nobody did hip-hop in the South, so I decided, you know, I don’t take no for an answer, I’ll do it myself. I was interning at the record station, so when the DJ was in the back snorting cocaine, I would be in there playing the records on the radio, and at the same time playing my commercials for free.
My unique style of DJing was talking on the mic, getting the crowd hype, doing all the chants. So they were like, man, you need to come and be in the group. The first song was “Throw the D.” It was a dance that we created in the party. That was the first Miami bass song.
But to me, Original Concept “Can You Feel It?” and T La Rock “It’s Yours,” those were bass records. “It’s Yours” is the first bass record in my opinion. It had everything that a DJ from Miami wanted in a record. It was slow, but it had the booming bass that everybody played at the party.
In the beginning nobody really latched on, it was like foreign to everybody. The guys from Orlando and Jacksonville started copying what we were doing. The “Dazzey Duks” guys. This other record label out of Fort Lauderdale did songs around the same time we were doing it, that’s where MC Shy D was. And then you had Lil Jon start doing bass, the R&B version of it. And then the guys in Atlanta started doing it, Kizzy Rock and DJ Smurf.
People don’t realize there was no hip-hop in the South. Zero. No Texas, no Georgia, no Memphis, no nothing. I would go do shows in Atlanta, and they would have New York DJs on their radio. And so I tell people I created hip-hop in the South. People have a tendency of trying to put me in a box of just Miami. No, I inspired everybody. Tell me who was before us?
And I inspired people to be independent, too. You had Master P with “Ice Cream Man” and I tried to sign him up and he said, no, I want to do what you doing. And I was like, I respect that. I tried to go to Oakland and sign up Too Short, and he was selling out the trunk his car like me. He was like, no, I’m doing it on my own, and I respected it.
BIG BOI
It was like the X-Men School of Superheroes at the Dungeon, you know? All of us — Outkast, Goodie Mob, Organized Noize — the whole crew down there just sharpening up our lyrical skills, getting ready for the world.
It was me and Dre going back and forth. We’d just rap, trade our bars. That’s how we got our deal, actually. Big Gipp was playing the “Scenario,” Tribe Called Quest remix. He had the Isuzu Trooper and Rico Wade worked at a beauty supply store. Me and Dre was up there and then he played the instrumental and we just rapped for the longest time. And Rico was like, “OK, y’all going to the Dungeon.”
We didn’t know how to count bars or nothing. When we got to the Dungeon, one day we learned formatting. With the Organized Noize masters, they just taught us how to do it. Me, Dre and Cee-Lo were like 16 and 17, and everybody else was pushing 20.
Everybody was there: Cool Breeze, Backbone, Witchdoctor. Then later on you had Future. Everything was organic and it was like a school of brothers. And we all came up together. We didn’t go to school together, but we were in school together.
A group called Parental Advisory was there before us — KP the Great, Mello and Reese. They had a song called “Manifest” and it was a jam, a dark, real gritty song. It was underground. They were the first ones and we came after them.
When we did “Player’s Ball,” we got $100,000 each from our publishing deal at Christmas ’cause it went No. 1. When you come from nothing, $100,000 is like $1,000,000, you know what I mean? We were millionaires before we were 21.
And then what we did was, of course, we bought a car. But we took the rest of the money and we bought equipment, an MPC60 drum machine. A lot of people don’t know that we produced a lot of our records, from “ATLiens” on up to “Idlewild.” Songs like “Ms. Jackson,” “Bombs Over Baghdad,” “Aquemini” — we did those. From watching Organized Noize, it was like, OK, if we’re going to be MCs, how cool would it be to paint the soundscape and write the message?
I’m known for being half of the ’Kast and one whole of me. The globe knows us, whether it’s film and television or at my kids’ recitals or football games. The brand is prestigious. They had an Outkast bobblehead night at the Braves stadium. We didn’t have to perform a song, but the whole city came out to get these bobbleheads. It was beautiful, man.
ROC MARCIANO
We used to breakdance — put down our little cardboard, you know, the early days of Run-DMC blasting out the big speakers: “Peter Piper picked peppers.” I remember just being a kid walking to the park and hearing it on the bass speakers. Like, it sounds foreign, something I’d never heard before in my life.
Just looking at how they were dressed — leather gooses and Adidas and suede Pumas — you really identify with that because that’s what you saw dudes in the neighborhoods wearing. Before that, entertainers, you expect to see them in suits — a little more like costumes.
My first album that I ever had was a Christmas gift, and it was “Follow the Leader.” I remember running home from school to the closest spot we could get to — it was, like, my boy’s crib — because they said the new Rakim video was coming out. The “Let the Rhythm Hit ’Em” video, dude sitting on the Rolls-Royce, it was like a damn movie.
Rakim presented hip-hop in a way where I felt like I could participate. It wasn’t in your face with the showmanship. He was more cool and laid back. You could just tell he was rhyming with his inside voice, displaying intelligence. I felt like I could become an MC.
I wasn’t thinking about making songs. Back in the day, it was more like the cypher, battling, who got the best rhymes. At that age, you don’t even have beats to make songs.
I went to school with Busta’s younger brother. I had a reputation around the town for rhyming. So when Busta was starting to develop his own label, when he was first starting Flipmode, he had reached out.
Being around Busta, I learned how hard it is to be successful in the entertainment business. He’s literally like a cyborg. He doesn’t sleep. Like, he works every day, in the studio every single night, you know? I was, like, man, at what point do you celebrate being rich and famous? Success isn’t a destination, it’s a constant voyage.
The internet changed everything. People are sharing music and you can’t keep things suppressed like you probably could at one point. You know, it only takes one person you like to post something that they like, and then bang, you know?
The transition when it became more about the internet really benefited me, because around that time I couldn’t get a deal with a major label after my Flipmode situation. Like, OK, cool, we don’t need the middleman anymore. We could just upload our music and just let the fans decide what they rocking with.
Not only me — it’s helped a bunch of us become heroes. My guy Bronson, Ka, Westside and Griselda, Hommy, Currensy — I’d say I was instrumental in most of their startups. It’s just mutual respect. Lil B, you know what I’m saying? That’s definitely somebody I linked up with that probably people wouldn’t have expected me to be a big fan of. I like that he’s fearless.
Young Thug, too. When Thug came on the scene I was, like, Man, this dude’s a genius. This is like James Brown 3000! I don’t know what he’s saying, I just know that sounds funky .
You know, living in New York City most of my life, I’ve never heard MF Doom on the radio once. And he’s a legend. You could see the disconnect. Doom was doing this before all of us, this independent grind.
To a certain degree, I would say Long Island artists are slighted. Rakim, EPMD, De La Soul, MF Doom, myself — it’s a lot of heat coming out of Long Island, you know what I’m saying? And Prodigy is from Long Island. I feel like saying it’s unsung would be untrue. But we definitely have a steeper hill to climb than maybe if we were from Brooklyn or Queens.
ROXANNE SHANTE
Nipsey Russell was a comedian who had the ability to make words rhyme anytime, about anything. My first time being exposed to him was on “Hollywood Squares” or something, and he went on from the moment he started to the moment he left the show. I said, “Yeah, I can do that.”
I remember trying it for the entire day, from the moment I got off the bed to when I brushed my teeth, when I’m in the kitchen doing dishes, and by the end of the day, I felt like I had it down pat. I guess that was the origin of Roxanne Shanté.
I grew up in Queensbridge public housing — the largest housing project in the world — going to park jams, when neighborhood DJs would bring out their equipment and their speakers. I remember the very first time ever going to listen and hearing, “Bertha’s going to be there!” So, I’m thinking she’s this woman that brings this party. Later on, I found out that Bertha was actually a speaker.
Once you went to a park jam in Queensbridge, it was something that was in you. It’s like being young and leaving a karate movie and all of a sudden you want to kick, you want to chop, you want to try it. You felt like, I got to be able to do this.
The acoustics in the hallway in the projects have a little echo to it. For some reason the beat sounds really good when you bang on the wall in the projects, or if you bang on a stair railing, or even in the elevator. We would just rhyme, which is what I nicknamed the Nipsey Russell syndrome, because sometimes you can’t cut it off.
When hip-hop started, I was 3. I didn’t get a chance to be exposed to MCs from the Bronx. For me, everything was Queens. We didn’t travel to the Bronx like that. I think every borough has its own unique origin of hip-hop.
I came in as a battle rapper. By the time I was 15 years old, they wouldn’t allow me to even enter into MC contests anymore. “Is this the little girl with the braces? No, she can’t enter.” It actually became a source of income from my household. We would find flyers. “Oh yes, let me go get that money.” There weren’t any other women that were like me because I was willing to battle male, female, whoever came along.
That’s why my first record happened to be a battle record and an answer record to “Roxanne Roxanne” by UTFO. Everyone was playing it throughout the projects, and I love the beat because it’s one of those easy beats that you can do on the wall: boom, boom, boom-boom.
For “Roxanne’s Revenge,” I actually wasn’t trying to make a record. I was going to do laundry and hip-hop producer Marley Marl, who happened to live right above the laundromat, said, “Hey, listen, I need you to come to my house. I heard that you can rhyme. It’s not going to take you long.”
I said, “You’re right, it’s not going to take too long. So, let me go put my clothes in the laundry.” When I went up to his house, he played the instrumental of “Roxanne Roxanne,” and I just did a freestyle, you know, using my Nipsey Russell syndrome. I finished it, and I went back downstairs and did laundry. I never wanted to make records or pursue a hip-hop career. I never wanted to do any of that.
There was over 86 response records that were made just for Roxanne Shanté, and we will never have that again. One of the surefire ways in order to be heard at the time, especially during and after the Roxanne Wars, was to make a record about Roxanne Shanté, because she will answer it. She’ll battle anybody.
I was supposed to get a pair of western Sergio Valente jeans, because Marley Marl worked at the factory. Growing up in the projects, you would do anything for a pair of jeans. That seemed like a fair exchange, but I never got the Sergios. I need to say that: I got a hell of a career, but I never got the jeans.
BUSTA RHYMES
I had a couple of big homies that was real grown. I was still in my single-digit years, and they had these Five-Percent Nation brothers in my neighborhood. They were the ones circulating a lot of the tapes — Kool Moe Dee vs. Busy Bee and the Cold Crush Brothers battles. And as “Rapper’s Delight” started playing on the radio, they had an underground station called WHBI, I think 105.9, that used to come on at 2 o’clock in the morning until like 5.
The Supreme Team used to spin on there. The Awesome Two, Special K and Teddy Ted was spinning on there. And they had Zulu Nation radio on the same station, so sometimes Red Alert, Afrika Islam and Jazzy Jay. I would make these pause tapes and then go to school and front like I went to the battles with my big cousins and sell them for $5.
I was up that late because I found out about this station from the son of a Panamanian lady that used to babysit me when my mother was working nights. The Panamanian lady, who I love to this day, her son exposed me to graffiti. He would have this black book that he would draw the pieces he was going to spray-paint on subways. I would sit there and just be entertained, looking at a live-and-in-person movie. These were my first experiences witnessing hip-hop firsthand.
When they had the block parties in the neighborhood, that’s when I was able to really get to see the DJing and the dudes on the microphone. Everybody would be outside until shots blew on the block. But it never ended unless somebody got shot or police came.
My whole lyricism, my showmanship, I definitely attribute a lot of that to Grandmaster Caz, even though I love the whole Cold Crush. I emulated a lot just in terms of my charisma and wanting to be the leader of the crew. I loved the Sugarhill Gang, but when I found out later on that Caz wrote all of Big Bank Hank’s rhymes, that affected my appreciation.
There was also the component of my Jamaican upbringing. In Brooklyn there was this melting pot of every Caribbean community in existence. It wasn’t just about hip-hop. You had Haitians, Trinidadians, Guyanese, Jamaicans, Bajans, Panamanians. This was a significant influence on my showmanship, everything I was doing from the way I dressed to the energy that was in my shows, their flow patterns and the way they spit on dancehall records, the heavy bass line beats. I encompassed all of that into my imagination but in a hip-hop way.
I moved to Uniondale, Long Island, in 1983 when I was 12. We were all finding mischief way too soon according to our parents’ standards. They saw us going down these wrong paths. Coming from where we came from, you kind of looked at it like, “Damn, man. Long Island soft. I don’t want to go out there and be around all this grass and flower beds, around some white kids that don’t know hip-hop culture.” But that common denominator is what allowed the Leaders of the New School to connect. Because the hood was still in the suburbs.
We officially started the group around ’86, but I didn’t have the name Busta Rhymes yet. My name was Chill-O-Ski. The way we got with Chuck D and them was at a talent show that was happening in Hempstead. There were 20 to 30 groups in the lineup, and we waited all the way until the very end. Chuck D invited us out to Spectrum City Studios in Hempstead, along with some other groups.
There was a board that had all these different group names on it like Son of Bazerk, Funky Frank and the Street Force, Young Black Teenagers and Leaders of the New School. And we had to listen to them try to split our group up and put us in one that they felt we fit most with. We were like, “We didn’t come up here to be broken up.” And they respected that.
We told them that we wanted the name Leaders of the New School, and the white kid that actually ended up becoming a member of Young Black Teenagers, he wanted the same name. So we ended up having to do a battle. And they said y’all want the name that bad then y’all need to make a song called “____ the Old School.” We didn’t want to do that because we was never raised to disrespect anything before us. But it was really just a test to see how bad we wanted it. That “____ the Old School” will never surface online.
What was cool and interesting about that time was that being smart and being positive outweighed everything else. You didn’t have too many gangster rappers. There was a large Five-Percent Nation presence. It was Poor Righteous Teachers, it was Rakim, it was Lakim Shabazz, it was King Sun, it was Just-Ice. Zulu Nation was present. There were a lot of uplifting Black power movements that were happening. If you wasn’t smart, you were looked at as a real bozo.
We had Queen Latifah, MC Lyte, Salt-N-Pepa. We always had braggadocious [expletive]. We had “I’m Bad,” real machismo, and girls saying that they were sexy, but you wasn’t really hearing about how dudes were out here selling drugs, shooting. I’m not saying that any of that is wrong. Everything in hip-hop has its place. But I think too much of one thing in anything in life is not a good thing.
When Leaders of the New School was poppin’ and things started to get active for us, that created some internal conflict. The consumer started to gravitate towards who their favorite MC was in the group. In that transition, I was really on my grind crazy because I was the youngest in the group, but the first one to have a child.
As far as “Scenario,” I knew my life changed after that. Q-Tip was always like my big brother and one of my closest friends. It was quite obvious when that record came out I was set up to steal the show. When I came on the mic with my “dungeon dragon” [expletive], it was definitely a showstopping moment.
At that time, the grand finale dude was the one who ended the song. “Scenario,” I was last. “Flava in Ya Ear,” I was last. “A Buncha ____” on “Blue Funk,” Heavy D’s album, I was last. “Come on Down” on Big Daddy Kane’s “Prince of Darkness” album. When you stealing the show, you were last.
“Put Your Hands Where My Eyes Could See” was a turning point for my life, the first time people heard me spit on a song calmly. It’s safe to say it’s one of the greatest records ever made in the history of the culture. I ain’t saying that because it was me. I’m saying that because it’s the general consensus across the board to this day.
EASY AD
My location was around Vyse Avenue, 174th Street, 171st Street, 173rd Street, right over the bridge from the Bronx River. I started hearing music in the parks just before the summer of the blackout, 1977. It was more funky, it hadn’t crossed over to the hip-hop era.
DJ Hollywood is older, he was doing the club thing, Club 371. They were considered more like a disco type of DJs at that particular time. We didn’t wear the things that our predecessors wore. We wore sneakers, things that was very comfortable for us. We also had the atmosphere, the B-boy, breaking. In ’78, ’79, a lot of parties started happening, places started opening up to hip-hop. The Dixie Club on Freeman Street, Lovebug Starski started playing at the Burger King.
I started writing rhymes around ’77 when I was in the Hoe Avenue Boys & Girls Club. The Furious Three, the Furious Four, the Furious Five — they were really, really good on the mic. They were the MC group that pushed you to want to push yourself. Then it was the L Brothers with Master Rob and Kevie Kev. They were really out there too, playing the Dover and a lot of community centers.
The first group I was with was the AsSalaam Brothers. After we broke up, Donald D and myself went to try out for the Funk Machine. He made it, I didn’t. Then I joined the Cold Crush.
As hip-hop progressed and everybody got really good, we used to have meetings at the Police Athletic League with this guy named Blood. All the groups who were established at the time, it was Flash and the Furious Five, the Funky Four Plus One More, Cold Crush Brothers, AJ and Busy Bee. And the Mercedes Ladies was there as well. And we had meetings because we wanted to establish that if one group was playing in a particular borough, the other groups would play outside the five boroughs. That was something that no one talked about.
Flash, Disco Bee, they had a sound system. They used to record tapes. Then you had AJ and Busy Bee, they used to record. L Brothers had tapes. But their sound systems and their tapes were not crispy clear, because people used to stand in front of their system with a radio and record it. So one of my friends from fourth grade, his name is Elvis, he was actually the first tape master in the world of hip-hop as we know it. We let him plug directly into our system.
Once he plugged into our system, that was the end of that — Cold Crush tapes went triple platinum all over the world.
The tapes used to be distributed in this way: If you had a brother that was in the Army or Navy, in Japan or Germany, they used to mail the tape there. So our tapes got distribution all over the world. And they were clear as well, so it was like you were actually at the party.
Also back in the early days, there was this car service called OJ. You can rent an OJ for $40, put it on hold for an entire day. In the OJ they always had the hottest cassette tape. And so there was Cold Crush tapes in there.
One of our biggest tapes was when we battled the Fantastic Five for hip-hop supremacy in 1981 at Harlem World. That tape kind of changed the complexity of the culture , meaning that the rhyming style that was done by the other MCs, we changed that ’cause it was becoming kind of boring. So we brought a different kind of rhyme style to the table, along with the showmanship and stage performances.
When “Rapper’s Delight” came out, we were already past that style and that kind of flow. And they weren’t really part of the hip-hop community, so no one really took them seriously, the record wasn’t being celebrated. We actually did not wanna make records at all. We didn’t understand the value of them because we had something to us that was very valuable at that particular time — our stage show and our tapes.
Later on, Russell Simmons approached us when Run-DMC was just getting kind of hot. He said, “My brothers are getting bigheaded. I want them to battle y’all so y’all can show them exactly what it’s all about.” Later on we found out that he had gave them a cassette tape and told them that this is the group that you have to be better than. So they study our tapes and our style. So when you see Run-DMC, you see a part of us and our flow and our hard rhyming style.
In 1984 when “Sucker MCs” was the hottest record in the country, we had a show in Chicopee, Massachusetts, at a roller skating rink, Run-DMC and the Cold Crush Brothers. We did our show and we do what we do. We rocked it. But they were the hottest, they were the bigger ticket. But it was very humbling and honorable, they came into our dressing room and said, “Listen, we want to be like y’all. Y’all are the standard which we want to get to.”
LIL BABY
Jeezy and 50 Cent — I remember my older sister had both CDs. I was born in 1994. I’m young, but I was hanging outside, so I was hanging around older guys. I’d already seen how they was living, how they was moving. The older guys was glorifying them. As I’m listening and I’m learning, it kind of shaped my life to this day, honestly.
You wanted the tank top, you wanted the money, you wanted to have that street feeling, like wherever you go, you’re the man. That’s what I got from Jeezy and 50 Cent.
I remember being 10, 11, I used to go on YouTube at my grandma’s house all day. Sometimes they had the lyrics, sometimes they didn’t. The songs that didn’t, I’d write the lyrics down myself. I’d listen to the first bar, figure it out and write it down.
It was local Atlanta artists — these were teen club songs. There wasn’t young rappers all around the world like there is now. Skooly with the Rich Kidz, “hundred thousand dollars in a rubber band.” Different little crews — the MDC boys had a song called “Splash Gang”; Yung Booke, “Sack Right, We Straight” went crazy; Yung Woo, “She Everything I Need.” We had them little MP3 players that you clicked.
Boosie’s always been a favorite, too. More than anything, he was from across the tracks. We were from across the tracks. He had them real neighborhood stories.
Music’s always been my inspiration, getting in my vibe, get my head going. But I didn’t ever think it could do nothing for me. That’s why I never did it.
I got out of prison on July 1, 2016. I went to the studio that day, put the headphones on and tried something. But I didn’t really make nothing. I remember telling one of my friends, “I don’t feel it yet. I’m gonna wait until I run me a bankroll up, and then I’m gonna come back.”
From always reading the lyrics growing up, I knew you needed a verse and then a hook and another verse. I sat in the studio with Young Thug, Migos, Peewee Longway, KC Da Beatmonster. I had a couple little buddies with those little in-the-closet studios.
Most of it was from watching — I’m a visual learner. That’s why I never write nothing down. To this day, I’ve never really seen the writing process, where they’re really writing raps. The punch-in process is freestyling, but not really freestyling. One line at a time, sometimes two lines at a time, sometimes three.
That first time I posted a song on my page and it went viral, I kinda liked that feeling. I never released the song, because it wasn’t actually a whole song. Me and Marlo, “Set Up Shop,” was the first song I recorded that came out. The next full song I recorded was “Option.” People loved it, but it was kind of cheesy to me. When “My Dawg” came out, I was like, “This is the one.”
The first time I got booked was at Club Bankhead, $750. Then I booked myself on Mondays at Crucial, the littest in Atlanta. We’d come in 50 deep, buying bottles. It was a wave. They were booking me for less than it cost me to come in there. But it was just the fact that we were getting paid to come.
Then I was booked Thursday to Sunday, performing at little clubs, the chitlin circuit. Every weekend, I’ve got a concert. I’d go to these new places and the song would come on and they’d go word for word. That’s how I knew every song was a hit.
I got a song like, “This month I want seven/I’ve been going up/next month I want 10.” That was for a show, I was getting $7,000. That journey, it’s been there in my songs. I went from 7 to 10 to 50 to 60, then 150 then 200 then 250 then 400 then a million. And it ain’t going to stop until I stop.
I’m not saying it to brag, I was actually proud of it each time. Like $7,000 — I was astonished. “I get $7,000 to rap!?” I couldn’t have been more proud. You know what I had to do to make $7,000? And they’d give it to me to go in the club and have fun? Life is a dream, almost.
Gucci Mane has definitely been one of several mascots for Atlanta. He put it on his back. Me and Gucci met before I started rapping, from the streets. Thug’s like my brother, we grew up together, versus Gucci Mane, who was like an idol. Guwap was like unc.
Ralo was one who gave me a sense, too, that I could do it. Because I know he’s a street dude. Even though Young Thug was a street dude, he’s been a rapper the whole time, so I never looked at him like he was doing what I could. That was his God-given talent and gift.
I look at all the people, even to this day, that are still in the game after 20, 30 years. I take bits and pieces from everybody, but the people I study the most are people who lasted for a long time. Swizz Beatz is one of my close mentors. I enrolled in his business class at Harvard. And I also study the people who didn’t last, who went out quick. I try to see who all has been at my level and then lost it — how they lost it, what they did wrong. I study that.
I appreciate Drake more than words can explain. But when he first called me for a Drake feature, I didn’t understand music the way that I do now. I think that’s why I did so good. I wasn’t like, “Oh my God, it’s Drake.” I didn’t know the real worth of it. I didn’t know what he was about to do for me. But that’s how I was able to get on there and just be free. Now it’s even harder for me to do a Drake record, because I know what I’m up against.
I used to be on some, “I ain’t no rapper, I’m a street [expletive].” Now I’m not a rapper, I’m a businessman. Rapping is still a business. As good a rapper as I need to be, I need to be a better businessman.
Hip-hop has opened every door for me — the people I meet to the way I set a trust up for my kids, every single thing for me in my life. Getting my record clean, setting a foundation for my family, not having to look over my shoulder.
I was just in prison in 2016. Now it’s 2023 and I’m almost on the top of the world. I’m sitting in an office now and I’ve got 300 pieces of mail. I’ve been an adult and not gotten a single piece of mail. Nobody had my address, all the bills were in somebody else’s name. Now I’ve been gone a week, I come home and I’ve got 300 pieces of mail.
LIL BIBBY
DMX’s album when he had the fully red cover, with the blood everywhere — I had it on cassette. When I saw the picture, I got scared. I was a little kid. What’s the one where he was back and forth with different voices? “Damien!” I heard that and I said, “Is this the devil?”
To be honest with you, I used to be realistic with myself when I was young: “I already know I’m gonna die and go to jail, so who cares?” And then when I started doing music, it just worked really fast and it kind of changed all our lives.
We watched Chief Keef come up. I feel like the whole world watched Keef come up. We were all young, and it was crazy to see someone from our city become so big so quickly.
Once the music started picking up and people started paying attention, the spotlight was on Chicago. I feel like it made me take it seriously. It gave me some motivation — like, OK, maybe I don’t have to die, maybe I don’t have to go to jail.
Drake reached out — that happened super early. He reacted to “Kill ____” with Herb. I was probably only rapping for nine months, and then Drake started hitting me up and invited me to his show. I was a big Lil Wayne fan, Gucci Mane fan, a big Drake fan.
When you just doing you, you never really think about how big it is getting or who’s copying it. I’ll explain the Chicago drill sound that the U.K. and New York is doing: It’s this thing that we used to do in Chicago called footworking — the footworking beats was heavy percussion, like with the ticks.
This producer from Chicago named DJ L, he used to make every beat sound like a footwork beat. And I used to scream at him like, “Dude, I don’t wanna rap on all footworking beats! Can you make different beats?” And he just couldn’t. He was our in-house producer, so we just used to be stuck rapping on these footworking type of beats. And the whole world just started doing it. It’s a Chicago thing.
I never really think about it like that, but every now and then, I think, we just started this in the closet . Social media definitely helped the drill movement, but when I look back at it, the [expletive] we was doing was so crazy. We didn’t do a lot of thinking.
I think most Chicago artists didn’t reach their peak. Most of them passed away. It’s like crabs in the barrel. We Chicago people got trust issues — I always think somebody trying to get over on us. I don’t think we really understand the business that well. Then you feel vulnerable, like you don’t know enough. Atlanta or L.A. always have the older people that’s well seasoned on the business.
I always thought about the bigger picture, where I’m trying to go, you know what I’m saying? Since I started listening to Jay-Z, I was always like, what would Jay-Z do? That’s how I based my career.
NONAME
In terms of song structure, I was really inspired by Kanye West, Common, Lupe Fiasco and Mos Def — that type of rap where there can be messaging and maybe some political themes, but the song is pretty standard in terms of hooks and bridges. A lot of sung choruses, that kind of a thing. I tend to like writing hooks that are catchy. I really like catchy-sounding production with thoughtful lyricism. That’s what I tend to gravitate to.
I have this very vivid memory of my mom playing “Late Registration” in her Nissan Pathfinder when I was a kid, and just being in the back seat, listening.
And then when I wanted my songs to be a little more deconstructed, Jay Electronica and Earl Sweatshirt. “Eternal Sunshine (The Pledge),” that tape from Jay, I’ve never heard a rap album sound like that, or someone attempt to rap to a movie score. That was very eye-opening to me, in terms of what the genre could do. Same with MF Doom, “Madvillainy.” I had never heard anything like that. “Oh, rap could do this?”
At the time, I wasn’t really a hip-hop head. When I was a kid, I was probably listening to Michael Jackson and Avril Lavigne. I was listening to a lot of Bow Wow, actually. Like, a lot. Teenybopper hip-hop. “Doggy Bag,” 2001 — wow. He definitely had a moment. That was my childhood, as far as rap was concerned. It was not exciting.
A lot of the stuff that I was into was based on what I could listen to. My mom wasn’t really allowing me to listen to too much. She was like, “You can listen to this Michael Jackson and one Kanye album.” And whatever’s playing on the radio. It was that vibe. I would go to my friend’s house and they would be listening to Wayne mixtapes.
I’m just now starting to become a real music fan, where I can listen to a lot more genres and styles. Stylistically, in terms of pockets and playing around with language, my generation doesn’t really do that that much, just across the board. And that’s the type of hip-hop that I think I like the most. I’ve been going back to Slick Rick and Big Pun, Big L, stuff that’s either punchline driven or people are just hitting very crazy pockets. As far as new rappers, probably Boldy James, billy woods, Silkmoney. You know Babyface Ray? I liked his last tape.
I’m kind of late being a musician. I don’t know why I make the type of music that I make sometimes. Because it’s truly not really popular. I feel like everyone is trying to stay away from the type of stuff that I do because they want money. They want to sustain themselves. Not even trying to be self-deprecating, but I really don’t hear folks making kind of weird poetic [expletive] like this.
Although hip-hop wasn’t my entry point, being in organizing spaces — Black radical spaces where folks are thinking about leftist politics and ideologies — I was able to find rappers and hip-hop artists that actually do make that type of music. I guess it does lead back into hip-hop, which I didn’t realize. Aspects of it were in the Black radical tradition. I wish that aspect of it was a bit more to the mainstream, but it is what it is.
PAUL WALL
Seeing hip-hop on MTV or BET, that was a different type of hip-hop. It was all East Coast predominant. Even on the radio in Houston, I remember hearing West Coast music and wondering like, why? The East Coast, a lot of what they said, I didn’t know what they were talking about, ’cause, you know, the translation is a little bit different in the slang. We understood the West Coast a little bit more ’cause it was like a migration of people from the South that moved to the West Coast, and a lot of their music was funk- or blues-based, similar to how a lot of Southern music and hip-hop was blues-based.
But when we heard the Texas music, that’s when we heard people speaking our language to us. The Geto Boys and the Screwed Up Click, it was all kind of the same era for me. Rap-A-Lot was seen as the super mainstream, they represented us on a worldwide scale, where the Screwed Up Click was more of an underground thing. We took pride in both of them, but for different reasons.
I remember being like 15, this would’ve been ’97, riding in one of my friends’ car, going to school, him rifling through just different mixtapes and then putting a Screw tape on, that’s how we would listen to it.
A lot of that era was very territorial. The Screw tapes and Screwed Up Click was a Southside thing, but it was almost like blasphemy if you were on the Northside listening to the Screw tapes. I was an undercover Screw head, it only would be a few of us really listening to the Screw tapes like that. There was a few people that I went to school with that moved from the Southside to the Northside, so they would have the new Screw tapes, “Hey, this is what I got when I went to my grandma house this weekend.” If you had that Screw tape, you would be the man.
When I started working, I would be like stocking shelves, overnight type stuff, no customers in the store. So you turn on the “attention shopper” monitor, put a rubber band around it and have a radio playing a Screw tape all through the store.
Listening to Screw tapes, it’d be a particular artist freestyling that really clicked with you. I really liked Lil’ Keke, Fat Pat, Big Pokey. You’d be like, “Which is the one where Lil’ Keke is rapping on the MC Lyte beat? Let me find that one.”
They weren’t confined by the vocabulary you’re taught in the book. They created their own vocabulary. Keke specifically is a wordsmith who would just create his own words, his own slang. I mean, honestly, any slang that we know today that’s Houston-related or Texas-related, Keke’s the one who said it first about 95% of the time.
When it comes to Fat Pat, he had a swag to him with him being a big boy but also real player. A lot of the music he made was about girls liking him, so it was that whole player swag. That’s who you would idolize or look to be. Fat Pat’s the first person I ever heard talk about having diamonds in his teeth.
Big Pokey was laid back, he had a softer tone to his voice, but it also was like very deep and aggressive at the same time. So him being nicknamed the hardest pit in the litter, it really fit him because it was almost like a growl of a dog when you heard him rap.
My favorite Screw tapes, there’s a few of them. “Leanin’ on a Switch” is probably my favorite one. “Who’s Next Wit Plex” is another. Still to this day, when I’m riding around, I’ll put ’em on.
When the Swishahouse came about and started to be a Northside thing, then it was like, oh we can do it too. Of the Swishahouse tapes, a lot of my favorites are the Slim Thug freestyles. “Northside 9,” “Northside 10,” where I remember Slim Thug and J-Dawg just going off. Also in the Swishahouse, they would do this thing where it would be four or five people and they would say one or two lines and then it’d go to the next person, like a pass the mic kind of thing, but you wouldn’t spit a whole verse. Unfortunately, I never got to be a part of that. But those are some of the most iconic Swishahouse freestyles.
I made regular-speed music and it being slowed down was something you would dream of — making a song and it got to be so popular or big that a DJ, whether it be DJ Screw, Michael Watts, DJ Bone, any of these other DJs would slow it down and you’d hear it on a mixtape.
Michael Watts opening the door, allowing me to rap with the Swishahouse, was something where I was able to showcase my talent in a different way. I did two freestyles for Watts, and one of the ones we did was a intro for his radio show. And I remember hearing that on the radio like, man, we on the radio with a freestyle! Like, that’s crazy. So many people are trying to make it that traditional path that you gonna be waiting forever. But if you go one of these other ways and do something different, then you’ll be first in line.
RZA
Summer of 1976: A young kid who had just come back from North Carolina into the streets of Staten Island. There was a block party being thrown by a local DJ, I think DJ Quincy. The DJ had jacked power from the street lamps, plugged up his system and was playing music. And even though I was a kid that shouldn’t have been there — it was past bedtime — I was there. The music, the turntablism of him spinning the record back and forth, the guy on the mic reciting lyrics, DJ Punch. Immediately, I fell in love. I had to be 7 years old.
I remember the lyric the guy said: “Dip, dip, dive/so socialized/you clean out your ears and you open your eyes.” When you just look at those words right there, it really makes a lot of sense.
It was a life-changing year for me. I stayed in New York that summer, and then we went back down South. I had to come back to New York in 1977 and was stuck here ever since.
My cousin, the GZA, who lived on Staten Island at that time, had cousins in Queens and in the Bronx. Soundview Projects in the Bronx was one of the founding projects of hip-hop. Being a few years older than me, GZA would take me up to the Bronx and that’s where I would hear MCs. We could say our style is traced back to the Bronx because it was Soundview Projects that really put the most inspiration on us. And of course, Jamaica, Queens.
At 11, you was almost an adult, especially in poverty situations. I’m talking about going from Park Hill, Staten Island, to the Wilson stop in Bushwick on the L train, and I did that every morning. That was just New York life.
GZA was already an MC. I would just recite whatever he said, copy it. At the age of 9, I wrote my own first lyric. I would sit in school and just write lyrics all day. That was the kind of brain I had.
Before the Sugarhill Gang had a record on the radio, all we had was tapes. Cold Crush versus the Fantastic Freaks, Cold Crush versus the Force MCs, Busy Bee versus Kool Moe Dee. Those tapes, those Harlem World tapes, those uptown Bronx tapes circulating through the neighborhoods, those were our teachers.
But when I heard them on the radio, I was convinced that one day my voice was going to be on the radio. Me, O.D.B. and the GZA, we just pursued it. We would travel throughout New York, any opportunity that we could to show that we had talent.
We had bad contracts. The first contract, I’m glad I didn’t sign it. GZA and Ol’ Dirty signed it — we was probably 15, 16 years old, and it didn’t work. My first contract of course was with Tommy Boy at 19 years old, and that didn’t work either. I felt abandoned by the label. I felt that the best way to do it was to do it ourselves.
I formed my own company first, Wu-Tang Productions, and started selling records out of the trunk. Then when Loud got wind of us and offered us a deal, I went, “Nah. I can’t tie every member of this crew down to one location. This crew is big and we have to spread our wings. We have to take our talent and spread it through the industry.” I felt it was going to be impossible for all this energy to come out of one faucet. “Nah, I need more spigots.”
I thought that hip-hop was losing its roots.
And I knew that me, the GZA, Ol’ Dirty, Method Man, Ghost, we were purists. My plan was to infiltrate the industry. The purity of the culture was taking a left turn already in the ’90s, and I felt that we should enter the arena but spread it out like 36 chambers. We want our chambers to be everywhere.
You think about before us in the ’60s and ’70s, you got Elijah Muhammad making different temples around the country. Or Marcus Garvey giving us the idea that we as Black men and women have to stand up and be noble and plant our flags, calculate our lives. Those things were in the back of my head as an entrepreneur and as an artist.
Prior to us entering the industry, we always felt that Eric B. & Rakim, KRS-One, Run-DMC, Big Daddy Kane, LL Cool J — there was a moment in hip-hop, between like 1985 and 1988, that was just powerful, influential and pure still. And then ’89, ’90, ’91, it started getting diluted.
So then when we came in, we felt we was bringing it back pure, and our contemporaries, as well: Biggie Smalls, Nas, Mobb Deep, Busta Rhymes, Outkast. Our early shows, it was Outkast and Wu-Tang, popping up in Chicago. Ice Cube was probably the headliner, and we were the opening act. And a few of the underground peers who didn’t fully hit the chart surface: Brand Nubian, of course, De La Soul, Duck Down.
Hip-hop is a sport. Now Wu-Tang, of course, being nine MCs and egotistic, even though those were our peers, we felt we were the best. We felt nobody could beat Wu-Tang. That’s the Wu-Tang spirit.
When we hit No. 1 on the charts in the summer of ’97, beating the country artists and rock artists, it was like, “Wow, we did it.” And the cool thing about it was like it was without being pop. It wasn’t like we had a Top 40 record. It was just the culture itself, the path we walked.
TRINA
My beginning is watching Queen Latifah, MC Lyte, Salt-N-Pepa. I just loved them. They were different because they were from up north and wore the baggy clothes. They were just girls and they was so fire. I saw them on TV and I was obsessed.
I remember begging my mom to take me to Salt-N-Pepa’s concert in Miami. I had to be 14, 15. I had my asymmetrical haircut, my little colorful jacket on and my long onesie thing. I was dressed just like them. I thought I was one of the girls.
In concert, it was really overwhelming because they were really, really good. They were dancing and singing and rapping and performing and the DJ, Spinderella, was there. I thought, wow, this is just amazing. And it’s just all girls.
I first did the record with Trick Daddy as a favor. I didn’t know it was going to be a song. I just thought it was an intro of me talking slick to him, going back and forth, arguing with friends. But when I got there, and he played it, I was like, “What do I say to this?” I was so nervous.
But I had my friends with me and they’re real feisty. They was just like, boosting me up: “Oh, no, we got to get him out of here. We got this.” We was all in the booth and they was like, “You gotta kill him on the track. You gotta go nastier.” I was writing stuff down, scratching it off, balling the paper up. And they were like, “No, nastier. We gotta go harder.”
We called Trick, and when he came back and heard the song, he went nuts. He called the owner of the label, and I knew him from growing up. He was like, “That’s Trina who?” Trick was like, “Trina — the only Trina.” “No, it’s not.” “Yes, it is!” And when he came to the studio, he was like, “Oh, no, we signing you to a record deal.” I just left and they were stalking me for weeks and weeks.
They came to my mom’s house looking for me. I’m not interested. I’m going to be a Realtor. I just got my license. There’s no way. I went to Trick’s birthday party, and they tricked me. He wanted to perform the song and I was too shy. I got on the stage and when the song came on, I didn’t say nothing. My eyes was closed. I didn’t say not one word, but every girl in the whole entire club said the song.
The next week, he had a birthday party in Tallahassee. I came out and killed it. I was scared, but I was ready to perform after that.
Once I did the “Nann” record, immediately, I got signed to Atlantic Records. Boom, right after that, I got called to do a Ludacris record, the remix to “What’s Your Fantasy?” So now it’s these two records blowing up at the same time.
I was in the studio a lot with Trick. We had Money Mark and C.O., Tre+6, Duece Poppi. There was Plies and there was Rick Ross. I kind of followed Ross. I would not turn in no records if he didn’t approve. That gave me security of how to put the records together.
Later on, I was battling with the label about certain records that I wanted to do, because I had grown from the records like “Nann,” and they wanted those particular records. I wanted to do these records talking about how I really felt. They felt like that stuff’s soft and your fans are not soft. I had to stand firm in the paint, do what I felt and make them believe that I can make music that I believed in.
“Nann” was fun. That was dope. That was Trick’s idea. I came in, I did my thing. But now here is Trina, and Trina is a woman and she is not 19 anymore. She’s growing, and she’s been through all different kinds of things. And it worked.
Here we are 23 years later. There’s so many girls, you can’t even keep count now. What I love about that, is there was a time there was no girls. It was just four or five of us. Now there’s so much more versatility — there’s the City Girls, there’s Flo Milli, Lady London, KaMillion, Coi Leray, GloRilla, Doechii. It just feels like Ladies Night right now.
VANILLA ICE
I’m the first global hip-hop artist in the world. I don’t care who you put before me or after me, I’m the first. I put rap music in front of people’s ears who never considered or even heard of it. I hit Saudi Arabia, bro. I’ve played Iran. I’ve played in front of the Taliban and Hezbollah, and they’d sing “Ice Ice Baby.” They don’t hold the American thing against you. They look at you like, “This is Vanilla Ice.” And they treat you like royalty.
You have to understand that I grew up with poetry. When I was in the seventh grade trying to get the chicks, instead of writing love notes to these little girls, I was writing love poems. And it worked really well. I had no idea that that poetry was going to lead to my career. But the passion never left. It just kept escalating.
My mom was really good at it, too. She had these one-liners. I’m a big one-liner guy: “Drop that zero, get with the hero.” “If there’s a problem, yo, I’ll solve it.” I could run for president, bro. “Let’s make America the ’90s again.”
I got involved in “Beat Street” and “Electric Boogaloo,” the “Breakin’” movies. I was a breakdancer. I would make 40 bucks a day at the mall, spinning on my head with some cardboard and a giant jambox. Chase the girls around, eat some pizza, have some change left over.
I went to high school in Dallas, and I would spend all my summers in Miami. The whole Miami booty shake thing that everybody remembers from the late ’80s really didn’t exist yet. There was no models, Kardashians, Versaces, not even 2 Live Crew. Nobody here in Miami influenced me whatsoever.
Hip-hop was way bigger in Dallas than it was Miami in the ’80s. I thought all white people were listening to the same music across the country, and nobody was. I was the only one. I had an older brother — he was listening to Aerosmith, Foghat, Mötley Crüe. I hated that. It didn’t make me want to breakdance. Rap just fit me better than O.J.’s glove. It really did. Scott La Rock, KRS-One, Mantronix.
I grew up with D.O.C. — Fila Fresh Crew was his first rap act that nobody even knows about, and that was in Dallas. He had a big hit back in the day, “Whirlwind Pyramid.” Everybody knows he wrote all the lyrics for everybody on “The Chronic.” KNON Radio, a pirate station, that was big. Dr. Rock, Big Al. Just straight from their attic. It was so freakin’ hip-hop and so culturized.
We had a place called City Lights, where I went with my brother’s fake ID. I entered into the talent contest because I’m a battle rapper, I freestyle. I feel like I’m the best. I don’t give a damn who you are — Eminem, Ice Cube, Ice-T.
We would also go to a place called Handy Dan’s, in the back of a hardware store where we would have keg parties. You could park behind it and the cops couldn’t find you. We would have these rap battles against other schools. I had to show up and blow up, you know?
Back then we didn’t have any kind of FruityLoops or Pro Tools or computers at all. There wasn’t even a smartphone. It cost money to go into a studio. I have a lot of self-discipline, and a lot of competitive drive from motocross, because I’ve been racing since I was 8. I went out and made my money on the motocross track, 1,500 bucks a week. I found a guy in Houston who made ecstasy pills for $2 apiece in his bathtub, which was legal back then, by the way, and I sold them for 20 bucks. Instead of blowing it on my car, now I’m blowing it on the studio, hoping this works out.
I blew it up, man. I went on the Stop the Violence tour with Ice-T, Stetsasonic, EPMD, Sir Mix-a-Lot. They were rap gods at the time. I was the opening act for the opening act for the opening act for the opening act for the opener. I was there so frickin’ early, the other acts were still in their hotel.
I had a 10-minute set, me and my breakdancing crew. I had a few songs — “Ice Ice Baby,” “Play That Funky Music,” a song that was never released called “My Car Goes Boom.” I never got so much love in my whole life. I guess word gets out that there’s this white kid that’s just crushin’ it out there, so people start coming earlier to the shows. It got so much attention it went to the headliner act, Ice-T. I saw him sitting there on a road case watching me. He was the first one to tell the other acts, “You’ve got to come see this white boy. He’s dancing his ass off.” And the next night there was Chuck D sitting on the road case with Ice-T.
Chuck D actually discovered me. My first record deal had come from Ichiban Records out of Atlanta. I was on there with Curtis Mayfield. The album was called “Hooked,” which is the same songs as “To the Extreme,” just remixed. Then Chuck D called Def Jam. We had it all lined up. I was on my way to New York, ready to sign, all dreams about to come true. And I get a phone call from my manager, and he says, “Don’t sign with Def Jam.”
He came in and he explained to me this guy named Charles Koppelman from EMI Records wants to meet me. It’s the craziest thing that could happen to any musician. I did “Ice Ice Baby” and then three years go by with the blink of an eye. It took on a life of its own.
You can’t pick your audience; they pick you, bro. And I got picked. Whether you like it or you hate it, you’re not going to stop it. They used me as a product on the shelf. All kinds of funny, laughable things like “In Living Color,” “Saturday Night Live,” “Arsenio Hall Show.” It was just a big wave of entertainment. And if you didn’t recognize it or use it, then your ratings were low. Vanilla Ice was the ratings, and that was it. The most controversial artist on the planet.
The adversity that I’ve had to face is probably more than any rapper in the history of the world. I’ve always been offended by anybody calling me a “white rapper.” You’re racist if you say that. Music shouldn’t have a color. Do you call Jimi Hendrix the Black rocker? My song was No. 1 before anybody knew what color I was. I was influenced by hip-hop. You can’t name any genre or any kind of person or ethnic background that is not influenced by it.
Don’t forget, a lot of these big rappers today were influenced by Vanilla Ice, OK? Nipsey Hussle admits it. You’ve got Kobe Bryant out there winning a talent contest when he was in high school dancing to “Ice Ice Baby,” doing the exact dance moves I did. The influence and the impact is undeniable. It’s possibly the biggest impact to ever hit music in music’s history next to Elvis or the Beatles.
VIOLENT J
In the seventh grade, I met John Utsler, Shaggy’s older brother, and an original member of I.C.P. He showed me “Roxanne, Roxanne,” and all the battling they were doing. He put me up on Eazy-E. How was a seventh grader copping these vinyl records and where was he finding them at? There was no internet. It’s almost supernatural. Maybe he was listening to the Wizard on WJLB at night or something.
We would watch “Yo! MTV Raps” when it only came on for an hour. And we would also watch Channel 62, which is a local channel, and they had a show called “The New Dance Show” and they would spin local rappers’ videos. Really cheap-made local rapper videos, but they were our heroes: Awesome Dré, A.W.O.L., Detroit’s Most Wanted, Smiley, Prince Vince and the Hip Hop Force, Merciless Ameer, Kaos & Mystro, DJ Duncan Hines.
Awesome Dré’s “You Can’t Hold Me Back” album and “Straight Outta Compton,” they just lived in our CD player. It took our love of pro wrestling away, which had been our goal. But we couldn’t deny it no more, man. We wanted to do hip-hop. As far as flow, my three main guys were Ice Cube, Awesome Dré and Esham. Now Eazy-E, I love Eazy-E’s voice, but Ice Cube on “Dope Man” is just a beast. He’s coming from the gut so hard.
Because people have called us horrorcore artists, I wanted to know about horror in hip-hop. My own personal investigation leads me to Houston, Texas, Prince Johnny C. That first Geto Boys record was all normal except for this one song called “Assassins”: “My father was a priest, cold blooded he’s dead/Hypocrite, I caught him basin’, so I shot him in the head/Poured on the holy water, ‘Bless the dead’ is what I said/Then heard the demon screaming as his body bled.” Nobody was talking like that. What I do and what Esham did comes from Prince Johnny C’s original idea.
I used to have cassette cases full of tapes of local rappers. If I’d seen anything that was actually pressed up, I had to have it. So I walk into a store and there’s this guy Esham and he’s got an album out and two EPs. He’s rapping about the scariest [expletive] I’ve ever heard. He’s rapping about the devil, 666, crucifix. It was insane. And he sounds like the devil, his voice.He became our biggest influence. The sky would turn red when we’d play his CDs.
We looked at Detroit, we saw Kid Rock riding in a tractor in his video. He had Too Short producing tracks on there. He was touring with Ice Cube. He was rapping about being from 32 Mile Road, which is way the [expletive] out. It was unique, it was different. We’re like, wow, this kid’s way out, redneck-style, and he’s rapping. And then we’re looking at Esham coming out onstage in a coffin, rapping about the devil.
So we were like, this is what Detroit does — theatrics. Plus we’re huge wrestling fans. We put face paint on after our first EP. The way Kiss does it in rock, in rap who’s doing that, you know? It felt natural. It wasn’t awkward. And we’ve been doing it ever since.
Right from the rip, we did everything ourselves. We pressed our CDs up, we advertised ourselves. And we hired Esham and Kid Rock, the two biggest rappers in Detroit, to be on our first CD. We had Michigan on lock. And Toledo and parts of Ohio. I’m talking 3,000 people at a show. We couldn’t do [expletive] in Pittsburgh if we went there, though.
I remember in ’95, Onyx and Das EFX were going on tour. We got on that tour somehow. We got booed off every night, sometimes violently. It was probably 400 people at every show that we went to. We got to Michigan, 2,200 people packed, sold out. Onyx came to us and was like … We went out last. It was three shows we did like that — Detroit, Flint and Toledo.
That was our first tour.
After ’95 we toured nonstop, but our experiences with touring with other rap groups are very minimal. For multiple reasons, but the Faygo is a main one. If they have their equipment up there, it’s gonna be all wet. Like, we’ve played with Snoop Dogg, but he’s had to go on first, which sucked, because people leave. But he ain’t gonna go on after we destroyed the stage with the Faygo.
In ’94, we got asked to be part of this big rap show in Toledo. It was Outkast, Coolio, a bunch more. We were so honored to be on a lineup like that. So we do the show and afterward the Outkast guys surround us and they’re like, you got your [expletive] soda all over our [expletive]. So we had to pay ’em money for cleaning and everything. People were mad at us and we weren’t trying to get nobody mad at us. We just wanted to do our thing.
You know, there’s a lot of reasons why we’re in this place we’re in. It’s a benefit because the Juggalos are the [expletive] and very supportive. But people look at Juggalos like they’re not people. They say, the only ones that like your [expletive] are the Juggalos. What are Juggalos? They’re people!
I would love the opportunity to get out on one of these hip-hop tours and perform for an audience that ain’t ours so people might say, man, they’re actually pretty good. One time we offered Ice Cube $100,000 to spit a verse and he passed, and then years later he did it for free, out of respect. Ain’t that crazy?
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rap music; Hip hop culture

Location: New York; United States--US

People: LL Cool J (James Todd Smith); Blow, Kurtis; Chuck D

Company / organization: Name: Geto Boys; NAICS: 711130

Identifier / keyword: Ti (1980 ); Cardi B (1992 ); Dj Hollywood (1954 ); Rap And Hip Hop; West, Kanye; Soundcloud; Two Thousands (Decade); Bronx (Nyc); Archives And Records; Southern States (Us); Houston (Tex); Last Poets; Audio Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Arts; Entertainment; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Race And Ethnicity; Culture (Arts); Innovation; Three 6 Mafia; Drake (Rapper); Rza; Joe (Singer); Wallace, Christopher G; Mcdaniels, Darryl (Dmc); Disc Jockeys; Outkast; Music; Caramanica, Jon; Advertising And Marketing; Los Angeles (Calif); Missy Elliott (1971 ); Shakur, Tupac; Jay Z; Nineteen Hundred Nineties; Black People; Ll Cool J; Atlanta (Ga); Pop And Rock Music; Beastie Boys (Music Group); Virginia; 2 Live Crew; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Rhode Island; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Dr Dre (1965 ); Bars And Nightclubs; Run Dmc; Noise; Social Conditions And Trends

Title: 50 Rappers, 50 Stories

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-05T15:24:44Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846387440

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/50-rappers-stories/docview/2846387440/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Yeezy Sales Are a Boon For Adidas, And Charity: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yeezy-sales-are-boon-adidas-charity/docview/2845380343/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The News
Adidas took in 400 million euros (about $ 437 million) in sales of Yeezy sneakers last quarter as the company began liquidating the inventory left behind when it ended its relationship with Kanye West, the rapper known as Ye.
Amid mounting public pressure, the sportswear company ended its partnership with Ye in October after the rapper made a string of antisemitic remarks.
As part of a pledge, Adidas has already donated €110 million of the proceeds to organizations that counter hate and antisemitism, and has pledged an additional €100 million, the company said on Thursday.
The Numbers: Yeezy's impact on Adidas's bottom line.
The Yeezy sales added €150 million to Adidas's operating profit for the first half the year, "an incremental amount," the sportswear maker said.
That's partly because the revenue amounted to roughly half of the €800 million that Adidas took in from the Yeezy gear in the first half of 2022. And Adidas reported a steeply lower operating profit for the half-year: €236 million, versus €828 million a year earlier. Adidas blamed the 70 percent drop on one-time expenses for a strategic review, "as well as the donations and accruals for further donations."
The company declined to forecast how much more money the continuing effort to shed the Yeezy gear could generate.
Adidas began selling its first batch of its remaining Yeezy shoe models in June. They sold out within several weeks, the company said.
The sale was a step toward resolving a $ 1.3 billion inventory headache that had plagued the company since it dropped its collaboration with Ye. And the revenue total was a sign that the shoe line, which had been hugely profitable for Adidas, remained popular despite the furor over the rapper's remarks.
"The sale of the first part of the Yeezy inventory did of course help both our top and bottom line in the quarter," Bjorn Gulden, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.
Although Adidas no longer has a contract with Ye, the company said it was honoring all remaining legal obligations. But Mr. Gulden refused to elaborate on how much the rapper was making from the sales. Ye and Adidas are continuing legal discussions, Mr. Gulden said.
How the Sale Works: More models coming in August.
A second batch of Yeezy sneakers and slides hit the market this week, and sales of the remaining inventory will continue to be released this year, as the company pushes "to get rid of it," Mr. Gulden said.
He refused to speculate on how much would be generated by the next batch, which includes some of the most popular designs, such as the Yeezy Boost 350 V2, 500 and 700, as well as the Yeezy Slide and Foam Runner.
Some of the most popular styles -- and most valuable among collectors -- were sold off in the first release, which amounted to roughly a quarter of all pairs that had been stuck in warehouses, Mr. Gulden said. Remaining models might not bring in as much, given their lesser value.
What Happens Next: More donations to come.
Adidas said it had set aside €110 million of its proceeds from the first sale of the Yeezy inventory to donate to organizations. The donation is not a percentage of the sales but an amount that the company said reflected "the value that we think we should donate after the conversations we have had," Mr. Gulden said.
Among the groups receiving donations so far have been the Anti-Defamation League, the European Jewish Association and the Philonise & Keeta Floyd Institute for Social Change, which is run by Philonise Floyd, the brother of George Floyd.
The sportswear company has also been speaking with Robert K. Kraft, the billionaire owner of the New England Patriots, who has created a foundation to fight antisemitic speech. Square blue pins, which the foundation uses as a logo, will be attached to all Yeezys that Adidas sells directly in North America.
This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Antisemitism; Professional football; Donations; Sales; Athletic shoes; Corporate profits; Sport clothes; Inventory

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations Sales Corporate profits Inventory

People: West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/03/business/adidas-sale-yeezy-ye.html

Title: Yeezy Sales Are a Boon For Adidas, And Charity:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2845380343

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yeezy-sales-are-boon-adidas-charity/docview/2845380343/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2841252148/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: ACQUISITIONS
Public Storage to Buy
Rival for $ 2.2 Billion
Public Storage said on Monday that it had entered a deal to buy Simply Self Storage from Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust for $ 2.2 billion, as it looks to expand its presence in the self-storage market.
Demand for storage space has waned from the heights of the pandemic, as people return to offices, and some analysts expect more consolidation.
Public Storage, which owns over 2,800 properties, will expand further through Simply's portfolio, which comprises 127 wholly owned properties in 18 states.
About 65 percent of the 127 properties are in "high-growth Sunbelt markets," the companies said in a joint statement.
The sale will generate over $ 600 million in profit, Blackstone said. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter of 2023.
Public Storage made a hostile bid this year to acquire Life Storage, but Extra Space Storage announced a $ 12.7 billion deal with Life Storage in April. REUTERS
FOOTWEAR
Though Adidas Cut Off Ye, His Shoes Are Still Hot
Unexpectedly strong sales of Yeezy shoes left over from Adidas's abandoned collaboration with rapper Ye should reduce the sportswear giant's expected operating loss this year to 450 million euros ( $ 498.56 million), the company said on Monday.
The update is likely to cheer investors betting that C.E.O. Bjorn Gulden, at the helm since Jan. 1, can turn Adidas' fortunes around. The German company had previously forecast a full-year operating loss of 700 million euros.
Although group revenue in the second quarter fell 5 percent to 5.3 billion euros, Adidas's gross margin rose 0.6 percentage point to 50.9 percent, the company said on Monday in a preliminary release ahead of full second-quarter results expected on Aug. 3.
Operating profit for the second quarter was €176 million, down from €392 million a year earlier.
Adidas said the potential impact of a Yeezy stock write-off was now €400 million, down from €500 million expected previously.
REUTERS
TECHNOLOGY
A.I. Leader Launches
New Cryptocurrency
Worldcoin, a cryptocurrency project founded by Sam Altman, the chief executive of OpenAI, was launched on Monday.
The project's core offering is its World ID, which the company describes as a "digital passport" to prove that its holder is a real human, not an A.I. bot. To get a World ID, a customer signs up to do an in-person iris scan using Worldcoin's 'orb', a silver ball approximately the size of a bowling ball. Once the orb's iris scan verifies the person is a real human, it creates a World ID.
The company behind Worldcoin is San Francisco and Berlin-based Tools for Humanity.
The project has 2 million users from its beta period, and Worldcoin is scaling up "orbing" operations to 35 cities in 20 countries. As an enticement, those who sign up in certain countries will receive Worldcoin's cryptocurrency token WLD.
WLD's price shot up in early trading on Monday. REUTERS
Credit: By Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREAS GEBERT/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Digital currencies; Corporate profits

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Corporate profits

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Public Storage Inc; NAICS: 484210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/24/business/25bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2841252148

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2841252148/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Messi's Impact: From 1 Million Instagram Followers to 11 Million: [Sports Desk]

Author: Wagner, James

Publication info: Wagner, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/messis-impact-1-million-instagram-followers-11/docview/2840448584/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The impact of the soccer star, who scored a game-winning goal in his debut on Friday, has already been felt in the city known as the unofficial capital of Latin America.
Since Lionel Messi announced in early June that he intended to make a stunning jump to Major League Soccer for the twilight of his career, he has flipped the world of his new team, Inter Miami, upside down and shined an enormous spotlight on South Florida. Considered perhaps the greatest soccer player of all time, Messi brought an unprecedented amount of attention to a team that was in only its fourth season and mired in last place.
And when Messi was fouled near the top of the penalty box in the third minute of added time in his highly anticipated debut on Friday, he had a chance to prove once again why he was worth all of this hoopla, money and adulation. As he lined up for the free kick in the waning seconds of the game, the crowd of 20,512 at DRV PNK Stadium wondered if he could author another unforgettable moment in an already storied career.
The answer: of course. With his golden left foot, Messi drilled a shot into the top left corner of the net, providing the winning difference in a 2-1 victory over Mexican team Cruz Azul that seemed surreal but also quite fitting.
"A tremendous joy to get our first victory after how we've been doing in the league," Messi said in Spanish in a postgame television interview.
Teammate Kamal Miller said it best when he noted that it was "crazy how that the whole crowd expected the ball to go right there, and he put it right there." He added later, "We all had that feeling that if anyone could pull off something of that magnitude, that's the right man."
This is the power of Messi. Before he agreed to come here, Inter Miami was perhaps best known for a cheating scandal in 2021. And this season, Miami had not won since May 23, a span of 11 games. But Messi, 36, has already made an instant impact on and off the field.
Messi, who led Argentina to World Cup glory in December and has claimed seven Ballons d'Or as the world's best men's soccer player, isn't just an iconic athlete who has reached almost mythical proportions. He already has and likely will continue to have a substantial cultural influence on a city -- and region -- known as the unofficial capital of Latin America. Restaurants have changed their menus to include Messi-themed dishes. Murals and signs of Messi have popped up everywhere. Argentine culture is spreading through him.
"The magnitude of this announcement -- no matter how much I've prepared, envisioned, dreamed -- is mind-blowing," said Jorge Mas, the Cuban American billionaire and South Florida native who is the managing owner of Inter Miami. "You'd have to live in a cave to not know that Leo Messi is an Inter Miami player, no matter where in the world."
Look no further than the demand for tickets.
Granted, Inter Miami plays in a stadium about 30 miles north of downtown Miami that has a listed capacity of 19,000 and is a placeholder until a proposed larger venue next to Miami International Airport is expected to be completed in two years.
But the prices for many tickets to Messi's first Inter Miami game jumped over $ 300 from roughly $ 40. As he acclimated to a new team, Messi didn't start the game -- part of a new monthlong tournament between M.L.S. and Liga MX called Leagues Cup -- but it was a sellout anyway. From the beginning of the game, long before he stepped onto the field as a substitute in the 54th minute, fans had been chanting his name.
The average ticket price on the secondary market for Inter Miami's remaining home games skyrocketed to $ 850 from $ 152, with road games seeing an even bigger jump, according to Ticket IQ.
While some fans have gotten their hands on a Messi Inter Miami jersey, the items are hard to come by online. A note on Inter Miami and M.L.S. official stores, which are run by the sports apparel retailer Fanatics, said that Adidas, the league's official jersey supplier, would be "delivering this product in mid October." The M.L.S. regular season ends around then. (Adidas did not respond to a request for comment.)
According to Fanatics, since Messi's new jersey launched on Monday, Inter Miami has been its top-selling team across all sports. The company said on Thursday that it had sold more Inter Miami merchandise since Monday than in the previous seven and a half months of 2023.
"This is going to give a level of global exposure for us that we never could have achieved without a player like Messi," M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber said. "Whether that's in South America or in Argentina, or in Europe because he had legendary careers in Barcelona and in France. The goal is try to capture as much of the interest in Messi as we can."
Before Messi's announcement, Inter Miami's Instagram account had one million followers. The count had ballooned to nearly 11 million as of Friday, surpassing Inter Milan, the storied soccer club in Italy, and all professional sports teams in the United States save for three N.B.A. teams.
"The city has got a bit of a buzz to it now," Inter Miami defender DeAndre Yedlin said to nearly 40 reporters gathered before a Thursday morning practice, a crowd much larger than usual. "People are really excited, which is nice to see."
For Messi's presentation event on Sunday -- which was broadcast globally in English and Spanish on Apple TV+, M.L.S.'s first-year streaming partner -- nearly 500 media members were credentialed, according to Inter Miami. And nearly 200 were approved for Messi's first practice, with a news helicopter circling above since early that morning. Even though reporters were given access to only 15 minutes of the training session, which is common in the sport, television and radio reporters from Argentina broadcast live from their spots on the other side of the field, and then later from the parking lot.
"That's a gift that Leo has given the sport," said David Beckham, the former soccer star and an Inter Miami owner. "It's about legacy for him. He's at the stage of his career where he's done everything that any soccer player can do in the sport."
Even beyond the field, Messi is among the most famous humans on Earth. At the World Cup in Qatar, it was common to see not only Argentina fans wearing his jersey and singing the national team chants, but also people from Bangladesh or the Philippines. A 30-foot-tall cutout of Messi stands, for example, in the southern Indian state of Kerala.
Building on its popularity in Asia, Argentina's national soccer federation had already begun its plans to grow in the U.S. market a year and a half ago. Leandro Petersen, the A.F.A.'s chief commercial and marketing officer, said the federation has 30-year deals in place in South Florida either to build new facilities (North Bay Village) or to renovate existing ones (Hialeah) to use as training centers for its national team ahead of the 2024 Copa América tournament and the 2026 World Cup.
But now that Messi is around, Petersen said the federation is benefiting from the boost and seeing its timelines accelerate. Before, he said, it was more difficult to compete with the established American sports leagues, such as the N.F.L. or N.B.A.
"What's happening now is that different companies that didn't invest in soccer because it's not the most popular sport in the United States, they're now starting to include in their budget a part to invest in soccer," Petersen said in Spanish.
Emi Danieluk, the brand ambassador for a local chain of Argentine steakhouses called Baires Grill, which has frequently hosted Messi, his family and his Argentine teammates, said Messi's arrival had already given more visibility to Argentine culture, products and food. He sees more potential ripple effects of Messi's presence.
"We have today an example of what Messi is generating in Florida, but I can assure you when he starts to travel for Inter Miami to other stadiums that have more capacity, like Atlanta United and 80,000 people, the impact he is going to have in every state is really significant," Danieluk said. "I don't think people realize that right now."
Those in attendance at Friday's game saw Messi's substantial impact. After he and Sergio Busquets, a fellow newcomer and former teammate of Messi's in Barcelona, entered the game, they began exposing Cruz Azul's defense. In stoppage time, Messi drew a foul and worked his magic. He sent the crowd into a frenzy, celebrated with teammates and raced over to hug his family.
"We want to start like that, giving the victory to these people and to thank all the people here," Messi said afterward, adding later, "I hope that we continue like this and they keep accompanying us all year."
Photograph This week, from left: Diners under Lionel Messi's image at the Argentine restaurant La Parrilla Liberty in Miami; Messi fans outside the Inter Miami stadium in Fort Lauderdale; a mural in Miami.; Outside the stadium Sunday, near a Messi image. A team owner called his arrival "mind-blowing." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAUL MARTINEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B9.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Argentine culture; Soccer; Reporters

Location: Argentina; United States--US; South Florida; Latin America

Company / organization: Name: Cruz Azul; NAICS: 711211; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/21/sports/soccer/messi-inter-miami.html

Title: Messi's Impact: From 1 Million Instagram Followers to 11 Million:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840448584

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/messis-impact-1-million-instagram-followers-11/docview/2840448584/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Messi Was Already a Hit in Miami. Then He Stepped Onto the Field.

Author: Wagner, James

Publication info: Wagner, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/messi-was-already-hit-miami-then-he-stepped-onto/docview/2840439100/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Since Lionel Messi announced in early June that he intended to make a stunning jump to Major League Soccer for the twilight of his career, he has flipped the world of his new team, Inter Miami, upside down and shined an enormous spotlight on South Florida. Considered perhaps the greatest soccer player of all time, Messi brought an unprecedented amount of attention to a team that was in only its fourth season and mired in last place.
And when Messi was fouled near the top of the penalty box in the third minute of added time in his highly anticipated debut on Friday, he had a chance to prove once again why he was worth all of this hoopla, money and adulation. As he lined up for the free kick in the waning seconds of the game, the crowd of 20,512 at DRV PNK Stadium wondered if he could author another unforgettable moment in an already storied career.
The answer: of course. With his golden left foot, Messi drilled a shot into the top left corner of the net, providing the winning difference in a 2-1 victory over Mexican team Cruz Azul that seemed surreal but also quite fitting.
“A tremendous joy to get our first victory after how we’ve been doing in the league,” Messi said in Spanish in a postgame television interview.
Teammate Kamal Miller said it best when he noted that it was “crazy how that the whole crowd expected the ball to go right there, and he put it right there.” He added later, “We all had that feeling that if anyone could pull off something of that magnitude, that’s the right man.”
This is the power of Messi. Before he agreed to come here, Inter Miami was perhaps best known for a cheating scandal in 2021. And this season, Miami had not won since May 23, a span of 11 games. But Messi, 36, has already made an instant impact on and off the field.
Messi, who led Argentina to World Cup glory in December and has claimed seven Ballons d’Or as the world’s best men’s soccer player, isn’t just an iconic athlete who has reached almost mythical proportions. He already has and likely will continue to have a substantial cultural influence on a city — and region — known as the unofficial capital of Latin America. Restaurants have changed their menus to include Messi-themed dishes. Murals and signs of Messi have popped up everywhere. Argentine culture is spreading through him.
“The magnitude of this announcement — no matter how much I’ve prepared, envisioned, dreamed — is mind-blowing,” said Jorge Mas, a Cuban American billionaire and South Florida native who is the managing owner of Inter Miami. “You’d have to live in a cave to not know that Leo Messi is an Inter Miami player, no matter where in the world.”
Look no further than the demand for tickets.
Granted, Inter Miami plays in a stadium about 30 miles north of downtown Miami that has a listed capacity of 19,000 and is a placeholder until a proposed larger venue next to Miami International Airport is expected to be completed in two years.
But the prices for many tickets to Messi’s first Inter Miami game jumped over $300 from roughly $40. As he acclimated to a new team, Messi didn’t start the game — part of a new monthlong tournament between MLS and Liga MX called Leagues Cup — but it was a sellout anyway. From the beginning of the game, long before he stepped onto the field as a substitute in the 54th minute, fans had been chanting his name.
The average ticket price on the secondary market for Inter Miami’s remaining home games skyrocketed to $850 from $152, with road games seeing an even bigger jump, according to Ticket IQ.
While some fans have gotten their hands on a Messi Inter Miami jersey, the items are hard to come by online. A note on Inter Miami and MLS official stores, which are run by sports apparel retailer Fanatics, said that Adidas, the league’s official jersey supplier, would be “delivering this product in mid October.” The MLS regular season ends around then. (Adidas did not respond to a request for comment.)
According to Fanatics, since Messi’s new jersey launched Monday, Inter Miami has been its top-selling team across all sports. The company said Thursday that it had sold more Inter Miami merchandise since Monday than in the previous 7 1/2 months of 2023.
“This is going to give a level of global exposure for us that we never could have achieved without a player like Messi,” MLS Commissioner Don Garber said. “Whether that’s in South America or in Argentina, or in Europe because he had legendary careers in Barcelona and in France. The goal is try to capture as much of the interest in Messi as we can.”
Before Messi’s announcement, Inter Miami’s Instagram account had 1 million followers. The count had ballooned to nearly 11 million as of Friday, surpassing Inter Milan, the storied soccer club in Italy, and all professional sports teams in the United States save for three NBA teams.
“The city has got a bit of a buzz to it now,” Inter Miami defender DeAndre Yedlin said to nearly 40 reporters gathered before a Thursday morning practice, a crowd much larger than usual. “People are really excited, which is nice to see.”
For Messi’s presentation event Sunday — which was broadcast globally in English and Spanish on Apple TV+, MLS’ first-year streaming partner — nearly 500 media members were credentialed, according to Inter Miami. And nearly 200 were approved for Messi’s first practice, with a news helicopter circling above since early that morning. Even though reporters were given access to only 15 minutes of the training session, which is common in the sport, television and radio reporters from Argentina broadcast live from their spots on the other side of the field, and then later from the parking lot.
“That’s a gift that Leo has given the sport,” said David Beckham, a former soccer star and an Inter Miami owner. “It’s about legacy for him. He’s at the stage of his career where he’s done everything that any soccer player can do in the sport.”
Even beyond the field, Messi is among the most famous humans on Earth. At the World Cup in Qatar, it was common to see not only Argentina fans wearing his jersey and singing the national team chants, but also people from Bangladesh or the Philippines. A 30-foot-tall cutout of Messi stands, for example, in the southern Indian state of Kerala.
Building on its popularity in Asia, Argentina’s national soccer federation had already begun its plans to grow in the U.S. market a year and a half ago. Leandro Petersen, the Argentine Football Association’s chief commercial and marketing officer, said it has 30-year deals in place in South Florida either to build new facilities (North Bay Village) or to renovate existing ones (Hialeah) to use as training centers for its national team before the 2024 Copa América tournament and the 2026 World Cup.
But now that Messi is around, Petersen said the federation is benefiting from the boost and seeing its timelines accelerate. Before, he said, it was more difficult to compete with the established American sports leagues, such as the NFL or NBA.
“What’s happening now is that different companies that didn’t invest in soccer because it’s not the most popular sport in the United States, they’re now starting to include in their budget a part to invest in soccer,” Petersen said in Spanish.
Emi Danieluk, the brand ambassador for a local chain of Argentine steakhouses called Baires Grill, which has frequently hosted Messi, his family and his Argentine teammates, said Messi’s arrival had already given more visibility to Argentine culture, products and food. He sees more potential ripple effects of Messi’s presence.
“We have today an example of what Messi is generating in Florida, but I can assure you when he starts to travel for Inter Miami to other stadiums that have more capacity, like Atlanta United and 80,000 people, the impact he is going to have in every state is really significant,” Danieluk said. “I don’t think people realize that right now.”
Those in attendance at Friday’s game saw Messi’s substantial impact. After he and Sergio Busquets, a fellow newcomer and former teammate of Messi’s in Barcelona, entered the game, they began exposing Cruz Azul’s defense. In stoppage time, Messi drew a foul and worked his magic. He sent the crowd into a frenzy, celebrated with teammates and raced over to hug his family.
“We want to start like that, giving the victory to these people and to thank all the people here,” Messi said afterward, adding later, “I hope that we continue like this and they keep accompanying us all year.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Argentine culture; Professional basketball; Soccer; Reporters

Location: Argentina; United States--US; South Florida

People: Messi, Lionel

Company / organization: Name: Cruz Azul; NAICS: 711211; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Fort Lauderdale (Fla); Inter Miami (Soccer Team); Italy; Fanatics Inc; Parking; Inter Milan (Soccer Team); Argentina; Restaurants; Florida; Barcelona (Spain); Philippines; United States; Miami International Airport; Miami (Fla); Sports; Apple Tv Plus; Hialeah (Fla); World Cup 2022 (Soccer); World Cup 2026 (Soccer); Liga Mx (Soccer); South America; Major League Soccer; National Basketball Assn; Europe; Parking Garages And Lots; National Football League; Instagram Inc; Atlanta United Fc (Soccer Team); University Of Florida; Barcelona (Soccer Team); Advertising And Marketing; Milan (Italy); Cuba; International Relations; Cruz Azul (Soccer Team); Bangladesh; Atlanta (Ga); Messi, Lionel; Soccer; Uniforms; North Bay Village (Fla); Apple Tv; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Mexico; Saudi Arabia; Latin America; Qatar; Athletics And Sports; France; Television Sets And Media Devices; Television; Stadiums And Arenas; Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Adidas Ag; Garber, Don; Beckham, David; Kerala (India); Honduras; University Of South Florida

Title: Messi Was Already a Hit in Miami. Then He Stepped Onto the Field.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-22T05:07:48Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840439100

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/messi-was-already-hit-miami-then-he-stepped-onto/docview/2840439100/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Messi Shines a Spotlight on Miami, and on Soccer in the U.S.

Author: Wagner, James

Publication info: Wagner, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/messi-shines-spotlight-on-miami-soccer-u-s/docview/2840402207/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — On the morning of Lionel Messi’s first official practice with his new Inter Miami teammates, Freddy Eraza Jr. and his father woke up before the sun rose. Hoping to see Messi, and to snap a photo of him, they arrived at DRV PNK Stadium in Fort Lauderdale on Tuesday at 6 a.m. A news helicopter had already been circling the practice field for at least an hour.
But Messi, 36, was already arriving when the Erazas got there, and they missed their opportunity for a keepsake. Four hours later, they still stood in the parking lot of the practice facility and stadium, sweating alongside dozens of fans in the sticky, 96-degree South Florida heat. They were all waiting to catch a glimpse of the man considered perhaps the greatest soccer player of all time, who had shockingly decided to spend the twilight of his career competing in Major League Soccer rather than for the soccer powerhouse Barcelona or for more money in Saudi Arabia.
It made sense to see many Argentina fans, jerseys and flags here because Messi led the country’s national team to World Cup glory in December, and because Florida has the largest Argentine community in the United States. But Messi disciples come from all over.
“There is everything here,” said Eraza, 40, who is originally from Honduras and now lives in Fort Lauderdale. “There are Nicaraguans. Costa Rica. Mexicans. And lots of Americans.”
This is the power of Messi. Before he agreed to come here, Inter Miami was perhaps best known for a cheating scandal in 2021. The team is a new franchise that only began playing in 2020, and it’s in last place in the standings so far this season. But from the moment Messi announced his new home, he has flipped Inter Miami’s world upside down and shined an enormous spotlight on South Florida.
Messi, who has claimed seven Ballons d’Or as the world’s best men’s soccer player, isn’t just an iconic athlete who has reached almost mythical proportions. He already has and likely will continue to have a substantial cultural impact on a city — and region — known as the unofficial capital of Latin America. Restaurants have changed their menus to include Messi-themed dishes. Murals and signs of Messi have popped up everywhere. Argentine culture is spreading through him.
“The magnitude of this announcement — no matter how much I’ve prepared, envisioned, dreamed — is mind-blowing,” said Jorge Mas, a Cuban American billionaire and South Florida native who is the managing owner of Inter Miami. “You’d have to live in a cave to not know that Leo Messi is an Inter Miami player, no matter where in the world.”
Look no further than the demand for tickets.
Granted, Inter Miami plays in a stadium about 30 miles north of downtown Miami that has a listed capacity of 19,000 and is a placeholder until a proposed larger venue next to Miami International Airport is expected to be completed in two years.
But the prices for many tickets to Messi’s first Inter Miami game, on Friday against Mexican team Cruz Azul, jumped over $300 from roughly $40. He may not start and may play only some of the game — part of a new monthlong tournament between MLS and Liga MX called Leagues Cup — but it was already announced as a sellout.
The average ticket price on the secondary market for Inter Miami’s remaining home games skyrocketed to $850 from $152, with road games seeing an even bigger jump, according to Ticket IQ.
While some fans have gotten their hands on a Messi Inter Miami jersey, the items are hard to come by online. A note on Inter Miami and MLS official stores, which are run by sports apparel retailer Fanatics, said that Adidas, the league’s official jersey supplier, would be “delivering this product in mid October.” The MLS regular season ends around then. (Adidas did not respond to a request for comment.)
According to Fanatics, since Messi’s new jersey launched Monday, Inter Miami has been its top-selling team across all sports. The company said Thursday that it had sold more Inter Miami merchandise since Monday than in the previous 7 1/2 months of 2023.
“This is going to give a level of global exposure for us that we never could have achieved without a player like Messi,” MLS Commissioner Don Garber said. “Whether that’s in South America or in Argentina, or in Europe because he had legendary careers in Barcelona and in France. The goal is try to capture as much of the interest in Messi as we can.”
Before Messi’s announcement, Inter Miami’s Instagram account had 1 million followers. The count had ballooned to nearly 11 million as of Friday, surpassing Inter Milan, the storied soccer club in Italy, and all professional sports teams in the United States save for three NBA teams.
“The city has got a bit of a buzz to it now,” Inter Miami defender DeAndre Yedlin said to nearly 40 reporters gathered before a Thursday morning practice, a crowd much larger than usual. “People are really excited, which is nice to see.”
For Messi’s presentation event Sunday — which was broadcast globally in English and Spanish on Apple TV+, MLS’ first-year streaming partner — nearly 500 media members were credentialed, according to Inter Miami. And nearly 200 were approved for Messi’s first practice. Even though reporters were given access to only 15 minutes of the training session, which is common in the sport, television and radio reporters from Argentina broadcast live from their spots on the other side of the field, and then later from the parking lot.
“That’s a gift that Leo has given the sport,” said David Beckham, a former soccer star and an Inter Miami owner. “It’s about legacy for him. He’s at the stage of his career where he’s done everything that any soccer player can do in the sport.”
Even beyond the field, Messi is among the most famous humans on Earth. At the World Cup in Qatar, it was common to see not only Argentina fans wearing his jersey and singing the national team chants, but also people from Bangladesh or the Philippines. A 30-foot-tall cutout of Messi stands, for example, in the southern Indian state of Kerala.
Building on its popularity in Asia, Argentina’s national soccer federation had already begun its plans to grow in the U.S. market a year and a half ago. Leandro Petersen, the Argentine Football Association’s chief commercial and marketing officer, said it has 30-year deals in place in South Florida either to build new facilities (North Bay Village) or to renovate existing ones (Hialeah) to use as training centers for its national team before the 2024 Copa América tournament and the 2026 World Cup.
But now that Messi is around, Petersen said the federation is benefiting from the boost and seeing its timelines accelerate. Before, he said, it was more difficult to compete with the established American sports leagues, such as the NFL or NBA.
“What’s happening now is that different companies that didn’t invest in soccer because it’s not the most popular sport in the United States, they’re now starting to include in their budget a part to invest in soccer,” Petersen said in Spanish.
Emi Danieluk, the brand ambassador for a local chain of Argentine steakhouses called Baires Grill, which has frequently hosted Messi, his family and his Argentine teammates, said Messi’s arrival had already given more visibility to Argentine culture, products and food. He sees more potential ripple effects of Messi’s presence.
“We have today an example of what Messi is generating in Florida, but I can assure you when he starts to travel for Inter Miami to other stadiums that have more capacity, like Atlanta United and 80,000 people, the impact he is going to have in every state is really significant,” Danieluk said. “I don’t think people realize that right now.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Argentine culture; Professional basketball; Soccer; Reporters

Location: Argentina; Florida; New York; United States--US; South Florida

People: Messi, Lionel

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Fort Lauderdale (Fla); Inter Miami (Soccer Team); Italy; Advertising And Marketing; Cuba; Fanatics Inc; Mexico; Parking; Inter Milan (Soccer Team); Argentina; Restaurants; Florida; Barcelona (Spain); United States; Miami International Airport; Miami (Fla); Sports; Apple Tv Plus; Hialeah (Fla); World Cup 2022 (Soccer); World Cup 2026 (Soccer); Liga Mx (Soccer); South America; Major League Soccer; National Basketball Assn; Europe; Parking Garages And Lots; National Football League; Instagram Inc; Atlanta United Fc (Soccer Team); University Of Florida; Barcelona (Soccer Team); Cruz Azul (Soccer Team); Bangladesh; Atlanta (Ga); Messi, Lionel; Soccer; Uniforms; North Bay Village (Fla); Apple Tv; Saudi Arabia; Latin America; Qatar; Stadiums And Arenas; Athletics And Sports; France; Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Adidas Ag; Garber, Don; Beckham, David; Kerala (India); Honduras; University Of South Florida

Title: Messi Shines a Spotlight on Miami, and on Soccer in the U.S.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 21, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-21T22:44:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840402207

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/messi-shines-spotlight-on-miami-soccer-u-s/docview/2840402207/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Her Personal and Business Aspirations Merge: [Style Desk]

Author: Testa, Jessica

Publication info: Testa, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/her-personal-business-aspirations-merge/docview/2839627685/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sporty & Rich, a popular line of merch that promotes healthy, luxurious living, is opening its first store-spa-cafe. Next stop: colonic clubs?
There was once an Instagram account called Sporty & Rich. For a time, it served no commercial purpose. It was more of a brain tickle of pleasing images: a mood board of supermodels, interiors and advertisements, mostly from the 1980s and 1990s.
It posted vintage Range Rovers and Rolexes and Ralph Lauren -- an affluent flavor of nostalgia occasionally punctuated by more modern references, like Frank Ocean's album cover, Phoebe Philo's designs for Céline, and President Barack Obama playing basketball. When it came to sports, it favored both the sexy (an up-skirt photo of a woman playing tennis) and the ironic (Joe Namath at 70, cocooned in a fur coat at the Super Bowl).
The account, created by Emily Oberg when she was 20 years old, was a hobby. It was an expression of her personal style, which she described as "mixing high and low, like sneakers with a designer bag, in a way I think is very common and ubiquitous now." At the time, Ms. Oberg was living in an apartment in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, and working as a video personality for the media company Complex.
But hobbies do not stay hobbies for long in the modern age. As her following grew, Ms. Oberg envisioned a print magazine. She envisioned a small line of merch: simple hoodies and tote bags and hats embroidered with "Sporty & Rich." Then she began to envision a different life for herself -- one of less hustle and more leisure. She moved to Los Angeles in 2018, and now her T-shirts are printed with phrases like "Health Is Wealth!" and "Drink More Water!"
The brand has also since grown, according to its chief executive, David Obadia, into an approximately $ 30 million business.
Now 29, Ms. Oberg has returned to New York to open Sporty & Rich's first retail location. The SoHo store will not only sell her vintage-inspired activewear and graphic loungewear, but also offer two spa services: a "lymphatic sculpting" massage and a "natural face-lift" facial that targets buccal fat. Instead of mannequins in the front window, there is a large sculpture of a glass of green juice, which will be served in the store's cafe along with bone broth, smoothies and coffee imported from Los Angeles.
Soon there will be Sporty & Rich skin-care products, and Ms. Oberg said she was working on developing dietary supplements and sex toys, too. If this all sounds a little familiar, that's intentional.
"I kind of want us to be a younger person's version of Goop," Ms. Oberg said while overseeing the unpacking of the new store last week. She had just flown in from Majorca. It was an oppressive 89 degrees in New York, and she wore a chambray shirt (Ralph Lauren) tucked into white jeans (Khaite) with stiletto-heel ankle boots (the Row) and a gold watch (Cartier).
"I don't think it really matters what we make," Ms. Oberg said. "I think people just want something that's Sporty & Rich."
The Gwyneth Playbook
In the years since she moved to Los Angeles, Ms. Oberg has been open about her personal health routines and experiments. Last year she published "The Sporty & Rich Wellness Book," a $ 100 coffee-table tome of advice and artful photos of toned-and-tanned models in states of undress.
In 2020, she told The Strategist she got "colonics a lot" and recommended her favorite at-home enema kit, which she said she used with coffee instead of water. In person, she talked about getting ozone therapy from a naturopath to help treat her autoimmune disorder, Graves' disease. "That's done through the rectum," she added.
Ms. Oberg knows that "people in wellness are heavily, heavily scrutinized," she said. She knows this from being "obsessed" with the Goop founder, Gwyneth Paltrow, a fellow fan of rectal ozone therapy who courts outrage on a biannual basis (most recently for discussing liquid diets). But Ms. Oberg also speaks from personal experience.
In 2020, she apologized for an Instagram post that compared the prices of fast food and snacks to "real food." (The price of a McDonald's Happy Meal, $ 3.57, was listed next to a bag of lettuce, $ 1.99.) She had written that people "don't need to be rich to be healthy" and should "stop making excuses" -- remarks that were criticized as insensitive and ignorant of the reality of food deserts. In her apology, Ms. Oberg explained that her post "was meant for people who DO have the option to choose a healthy lifestyle, not those who have no option or choice."
More remarks by Ms. Oberg resurfaced -- a since deleted Instagram account called @notsportyrich was devoted to aggregating them -- as when she identified as a "big time" anti-vaxxer on a giggly 2019 episode of "Failing Upwards" (a shock jock fashion podcast now known as "Throwing Fits," co-hosted by her former boss at Complex).
"I think that there were a lot of people who love to hate me, for whatever reason," Ms. Oberg said.
Asked about the vaccination backlash now, Ms. Oberg said she had treated the interview as a "silly" and "stupid" conversation with friends and didn't fully understand that her comments might upset people. She is fully vaccinated against Covid-19, she said, and "would never put other people in harm by not getting a vaccine." She attributed her beliefs in part to her upbringing.
"My mom was really into natural medicine and natural remedies and eating super-healthy and being active," said Ms. Oberg, who was raised in Calgary, Alberta, which has been compared to the Texas of Canada for its large oil industry and annual Stampede rodeo. "I was vaccinated when I was a baby, but slowly over time, she became more and more skeptical."
If Ms. Oberg's mother influenced her notions about health, her father, who immigrated to Canada from the Philippines, influenced her style and taste. He was an outdoorsman, skateboarder and sneaker collector who once dressed her in baby-size Air Jordans. He valued durability and longevity in products, having worked as a letter carrier, "pounding the pavement," he said, for the last 21 years.
Ms. Oberg described her childhood as comfortable, but not particularly Rich -- "that part of the brand was very much something that I always wanted and wish I had" -- or Sporty, other than being on the badminton team in high school.
"I was just obsessed with clothes and fashion," said Ms. Oberg, who began working in retail at 14 at Canada's elevated fast-fashion chain Aritzia, as well as the department store Holt Renfrew. She left Calgary at 18 for Vancouver, then moved to New York two years later to work with Complex's new video team in New York.
Complex is perhaps best known today for "Hot Ones," a series in which celebrities answer questions while sampling progressively spicier sauces. Ms. Oberg was best known for "Get Sweaty," a series in which celebrities answered questions while working out with her, and for interviewing hypebeasts waiting in line for hours outside Supreme.
Through Complex, she became a sort of micro-celebrity, particularly among young male streetwear fans, some of whom continue to comment on her Instagram photos. A bikini shot -- headless, as her selfies frequently are -- recently yielded the comment: "Like 10 years of getting thirst trapped and I'm still here." (Ms. Oberg said these kinds of comments don't bother her: "I don't like when girls who post all these sexual photos are like, 'How dare you objectify me.' It's like, 'What do you expect?"')
Yet Ms. Oberg has largely managed to transcend the "influencer" epithet. Her personal Instagram account may be conventionally aspirational -- frequent subjects include her European travels and concave stomach -- but it's not filled with sponsored posts. In the past, she has pointed out the absurdity of the influencer industry. She told the "Failing Upwards" podcast that she once was paid $ 12,000 to post for a makeup brand. She does not typically wear makeup.
"Emily was never into fame or fortune -- that's funny to say, because that's kind of where it's at right now," her father, Deo Abesamis, said. "I always try to tell her things like, 'This can be all gone tomorrow, so enjoy your time now.' And she realizes that."
She did recently experience one unfortunate rite of passage for the rich and famous: getting burgled. While on vacation with her boyfriend (a co-founder of the activewear brand Splits59), a number of items were taken from her new Beverly Hills home. The loot included four Hermès bags (two of them Birkins) and four Chanel jackets, all of which, she said, she had bought for herself.
She was surprisingly sanguine: "At first it was very sad, but it really is just things, and they can be replaced." Though not through her insurance, she said, which expired before the break-in.
Join the Club
Before devoting herself full time to Sporty & Rich, Ms. Oberg spent most of 2017 at Kith, the streetwear brand and store, working as the women's creative lead. She saw the more traditional fashion job as her exit ramp from media. But it wasn't the right fit.
"I didn't like working in an environment where there was no respect for a work-life balance," she said. She preferred "a very, very strong balance, sometimes way more leisure than work."
"I want a very simple life," Ms. Oberg continued. "We're making clothes, you know, we're not finding cures to diseases and viruses."
She was still consulting for other brands at the time, including Harmony, a Paris-based brand that she had once covered favorably for Complex. Harmony's founder, Mr. Obadia, described himself as an experienced "product-driven guy," but "not a fantastic guy when it comes to images and marketing." The work Ms. Oberg did for Harmony was remote, but she and Mr. Obadia kept talking, and soon she flew to Paris to meet him. They began dating.
"We said 'I love you' the very first day," Ms. Oberg recalled. "It was very intense."
While living between Los Angeles and Paris, they decided to work on a Sporty & Rich product drop together. When Mr. Obadia saw thousands of preorders roll in, he realized Ms. Oberg had something he never had: a strong following. He thought he could turn Sporty & Rich into a real, serious brand, not just a mood board with occasional drops.
Mr. Obadia, now 34, said he told Ms. Oberg: "You don't know how to manufacture items, you don't know how to operate a company, you don't know how to scale a company, but you have what matters the most. You have a true vision. So I'll do my part. You do yours."
Today most of Sporty & Rich's team is based in Paris with Mr. Obadia, who formalized his role as chief executive in 2019. (Ms. Oberg is still the sole owner of company, which employs about 25 people.) While he and Ms. Oberg are now exes, they are on good terms, they both said. There have been growing pains -- Ms. Oberg's near cancellation revealed that some customers were unhappy with issues in order fulfillment, which sometimes persist, and her brusque approach to customer service, which does not. But Mr. Obadia projected revenue to be from $ 28 million to $ 32 million this year, without any investment or outside funding.
The brand just rolled out the second part of a major collaboration with Adidas, and earlier this year released a 1970s- and 1980s-inspired tennis capsule with Lacoste. Ms. Oberg and Mr. Obadia are both tennis enthusiasts -- as a child, he dreamed of going pro -- and Sporty & Rich has helped lead the tenniscore trend.
"It's health and wellness as brand messages and aesthetics," said Marian Park, a fashion strategist who runs Miscellanea Studio, and who pointed to a number of newer brands emulating the same post-gym-Princess-Diana look, stamping their athleisure with similar tennis club-inspired logos and sweeping health mantras, like "sport is medicine." "Millennials and Gen Z, we're drinking less and smoking less than boomers, and we're all scared of getting older."
Ms. Park acknowledged that Sporty & Rich stumbled during Ms. Oberg's controversies in 2020. And yet, she said, "there is a huge segment of consumers that don't care about that or don't know about that and never will. As long as they're tapping into those lifestyle conversations around wellness and sport, it's always going to do well."
Bosse Myhr, the buying director for men's and women's wear at Selfridges in London -- one of more than 150 wholesale partners that stock Sporty & Rich -- painted the average Sporty & Rich customer at Selfridges as a 20-something woman "who likes to work out, who likes to be conscious about what she eats, and wants to look cool and relevant."
Mr. Myhr, who recalled meeting Ms. Oberg at a buffet brunch at Soho House in New York, cited the if-you-know-you-know clubby feeling around the brand. "You want to feel that you're part of it," he said.
That feeling is exactly where Ms. Oberg sees the future of the brand: clubs. She imagines creating "the place I want to go to that doesn't exist" -- a wellness center with tennis courts, a pool, restaurant, spa, naturopath "and colonics," she said, laughing. "For me, it's more about the world and the lifestyle that we've created rather than the product."
"This is kind of like a preview," she continued, waving an arm around her store-cafe-mini spa, which opens on Thursday, and whose bright primary colors were inspired by Esprit stores in the 1980s -- more sporty than rich.
"At first we had a different concept where it did go that more luxury route," she said. "Then I was like, 'Wait, this is not us. This needs to feel like us.' Just, you know, childish."
Photograph From top: Emily Oberg, founder of Sporty & Rich; her enthusiasm for tennis is reflected in the brand's activewear; and Sporty & Rich's Manhattan store sells merchandise and offers spa treatments. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Personal health; Sport clothes; Celebrities; Coffee; Hobbies

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; Canada; Calgary Alberta Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/19/style/sporty-and-rich-emily-oberg.html

Title: Her Personal and Business Aspirations Merge:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 20, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2839627685

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/her-personal-business-aspirations-merge/docview/2839627685/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Frequent Fliers of Congress Seek Faster Ways Home: [National Desk]

Author: Kelly, Kate; Walker, Mark; Koeze, Ella

Publication info: Kelly, Kate; Walker, Mark; Koeze, Ella. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frequent-fliers-congress-seek-faster-ways-home/docview/2833500394/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Dozens of lawmakers are seeking to loosen a law that limits long-distance flights to and from Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. For some of them, success could mean a shorter commute.
Representative Blake D. Moore, Republican of Utah, is pushing for changes to federal law that would allow more nonstop flights between Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and Salt Lake City. Those flights, he said, would increase tourism between Utah and the nation's capital.
They would also offer Mr. Moore a more efficient commute.
When he heads home from Capitol Hill, Mr. Moore often waits for the only direct flight in the afternoon or evening from any of the three Washington-area airports that can return him to Salt Lake City in time to tuck in his children: a Delta Air Lines departure from Reagan National, also known as DCA, after 5 p.m. that lands around 8 p.m. An earlier departure would allow him to fulfill his duties as a legislator but also as a father, Mr. Moore said, letting him help his wife with dinner or attend Little League practice.
"We need more direct flights out of DCA," he said.
In recent weeks, dozens of lawmakers have joined the push for 28 new round-trip flights per day at Reagan National. Pressing their case with opinion essays, tweets and proposed legislation, they argue that these additional routes -- which would require tweaking a decades-old law that prevents most flights from traveling more than 1,250 miles to or from Reagan National -- would meet pent-up demand, reduce airfares and create new jobs.
Their push, fueled by a multimillion-dollar lobbying campaign sponsored by Delta, aims to enact changes as part of legislation that would reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration for another five years.
The effort to relax the so-called perimeter rule is caught up in battles for market share among airlines, local politics in the Washington area and friction over the F.A.A.'s chronic and worsening problems managing air traffic and safety.
But unlike many of the special-interest battles in Washington, this one has personal ramifications for lawmakers -- or at least those who shuttle home each week to points west that cannot be reached easily from Reagan National, located just across the Potomac River from downtown Washington and a quick ride from Capitol Hill. (Another Washington-area airport, Washington Dulles International Airport, is about 25 miles to the west.)
"I absolutely would be in favor" of additional direct flights from Reagan National to points outside the current 1,250-mile perimeter, said Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, adding that he would need to see more details before supporting any particular bill.
Mr. Tester described his commute -- which involves a pre-dawn, 90-minute drive from his farm near Big Sandy, Mont., to Great Falls International Airport and a layover in Minneapolis, Salt Lake City or Denver -- as "a pain."
Representative Burgess Owens, Republican of Utah and one of the lawmakers seeking to allow more long-distance flights from Reagan National, said he had recently missed one from Salt Lake City to Washington and had to wait a day and a half for another.
Ultimately, he had to fly into Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport, roughly 25 miles northeast of Capitol Hill, and take an hourlong Uber ride to his office. "Unfortunately, many Utahns and Americans from the West lack access to their representatives, our nation's historic sites and federal agencies," he said at an event outside the Capitol promoting legislation to authorize additional flights.
It is not clear whether public policy will be swayed in this case by questions of whether members of Congress should be able to avoid inconvenient connecting flights or have more options at a nearby airport. And other issues are at play.
Lawmakers from Maryland and Virginia, the states that would be most affected by increased flights in and out of Reagan National, have argued that the airport, in Arlington, Va. -- a spot that an energetic traveler could reach on foot from the Lincoln Memorial -- is already strained by traffic, limited parking and stressed baggage systems.
"Right now, DCA already has the busiest runway in the country," Representative Abigail Spanberger, a Virginia Democrat who opposes the proposed perimeter exceptions, said in a statement. "I'm also concerned in the wake of a recent F.A.A. analysis that found that more long-haul flights at DCA would throw the airport's operational performance out of balance."
United Airlines and American Airlines, Delta's biggest competitors, are also opposed to relaxing the perimeter rule. Those carriers argue that additional long-distance flights at Reagan National would cause passenger delays and might even waylay the F.A.A.'s reauthorization. And if the perimeter changes were passed, yet another industry tussle over which new routes could ultimately be offered would likely follow.
In an internal memo in May, the F.A.A. wrote that adding long-distance flights to Reagan National's schedule without taking away existing ones would strain the system. Reagan National already ranks as No. 10 among U.S. airports in delays, the memo said.
But supporters of the shift consider their own unwieldy commutes to be evidence of a system in need of improvement.
In April, Delta established a nonprofit called the Capital Access Alliance to make the case for adding new exceptions to the perimeter rule, which dates to 1966 and has been updated occasionally over the years.
Joined by small businesses; West Coast companies like Columbia Sportswear and Adidas; and trade associations in states like Utah, Texas and Washington, the alliance says the perimeter rule has outlived its usefulness as a bulwark against airport congestion and competition that could have hurt Dulles -- which opened in 1962 -- in its early years.
The group also says that the congestion issues that the F.A.A. has flagged are not a factor during certain times of day, creating an opening for new flights.
Delta is also hoping to operate lucrative new long-distance flights to and from Reagan National, where its current market share is 14 percent, according to a Boston Consulting Group analysis commissioned by the airline. Delta officials say they hope to establish or increase service to cities including Austin, Texas; Salt Lake City; and Seattle.
Delta has hired the influential lobbyist Jeff Miller, who is known for having Speaker Kevin McCarthy's ear, to help its case.
Jamie Baker, an airline analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Company, said that while it was too early to predict the financial implications of exceptions to the perimeter rule for major airlines like Delta, the changes could result in reduced service to smaller cities from Reagan National.
Defenders of the perimeter rule have emphasized that possibility.
"Cities and states that rely on convenient, on-time access to Washington as a destination or connection risk losing access," a nonprofit called the Coalition to Protect America's Regional Airports says on its website. The group is backed by United and dozens of smaller airports and trade groups, many of them within the current 1,250-mile perimeter.
But the lengthy journeys that lawmakers can face en route to Washington appear to have inspired some to push for new exceptions to the existing limits.
In May, Representative Hank Johnson, a Democrat from Delta's home state of Georgia, and Mr. Owens, the Utah Republican, introduced legislation that would allow 28 new daily round-trip flights at Reagan National. Senators Raphael Warnock, also a Georgia Democrat, and Cynthia Lummis, Republican of Wyoming, introduced a similar bill in the Senate in June.
"The operations of DCA remain as they were structured in the 1960s so as to protect the ability of Dulles International Airport to grow," Mr. Johnson said. "Those ideals have outlived their usefulness at this point."
Among those seeking to relax the perimeter rule is Representative Chip Roy, Republican of Texas, who wants to see direct flights between Reagan National and San Antonio, parts of which are in his congressional district.
Mr. Roy can take a direct flight from Austin to Reagan National, he said, but sometimes that flight does not arrive early enough for him to make meetings of the House Rules Committee, forcing him to use Dulles or Baltimore/Washington instead.
"It's a little bit clunky," Mr. Roy said.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, tried to relax Reagan National's perimeter restrictions in the late 1990s and to get rid of the rule entirely in the late 2000s. While Mr. McCain was not able to eliminate the rule, he did succeed in winning new exceptions to create flights from Reagan National to Phoenix in the process. He continued to take flights home with connections, however, to avoid accusations of self-dealing.
The impact of the push by Mr. McCain, who died in 2018, was such that Representative Debbie Lesko, a Republican from the Phoenix area, is declining to support the effort by some of her House colleagues to loosen the perimeter rule, fearing that it could backfire on Arizona.
"We do have several direct flights to Phoenix already," Ms. Lesko, who flies direct to Reagan National, said with a chuckle, "and so opening it up to, let's say, Utah or things, may reduce the number of direct flights to Phoenix. So for my constituents, I don't think I would sign onto that bill."
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Do you work in aviation? The Times wants to hear your story. Please share your experiences with us below, and you can learn more about our reporting here . We especially want to hear from people who work for (or used to work for) airports or airlines, or who are part of government agencies that help keep the aviation sector running. We won't publish any part of your submission without your permission.
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Photograph Representative Ryan Zinke, Republican of Montana, arriving at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in April. The airport is just across the Potomac River from downtown Washington and a quick ride from Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM BRENNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Representative Burgess Owens, Republican of Utah, is one of the sponsors of a bill, supported by Delta Air Lines, that would allow more long-distance flights to and from Reagan National. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; TOM BRENNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Airlines; Legislators; Airports; Aviation; Legislation; Air fares; Cities; Market shares

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports Air fares Market shares

Location: Baltimore Maryland; Texas; United States--US; Arizona; Georgia; Virginia; Utah

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport; NAICS: 488119

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/04/us/politics/dca-long-distance-flights.html

Title: The Frequent Fliers of Congress Seek Faster Ways Home:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833500394

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frequent-fliers-congress-seek-faster-ways-home/docview/2833500394/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New Y ork Times Company Jul 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Frequent Fliers of Congress Seek Faster Ways Home

Author: Kelly, Kate; Walker, Mark

Publication info: Kelly, Kate; Walker, Mark. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frequent-fliers-congress-seek-faster-ways-home/docview/2833294074/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah, is pushing for changes to federal law that would allow more nonstop flights between Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and Salt Lake City. Those flights, he said, would increase tourism between Utah and the nation’s capital.
They would also offer Moore a more efficient commute.
When he heads home from Capitol Hill, Moore often waits for the only direct flight in the afternoon or evening from any of the three Washington-area airports that can return him to Salt Lake City in time to tuck in his children: a Delta Air Lines departure from Reagan National, also known as DCA, after 5 p.m. that lands around 8 p.m. An earlier departure would allow him to fulfill his duties as a legislator but also as a father, Moore said, letting him help his wife with dinner or attend Little League practice.
“We need more direct flights out of DCA,” he said.
In recent weeks, dozens of lawmakers have joined the push for 28 new round-trip flights per day at Reagan National. Pressing their case with opinion essays, tweets and proposed legislation, they argue that these additional routes — which would require tweaking a decades-old law that prevents most flights from traveling more than 1,250 miles to or from Reagan National — would meet pent-up demand, reduce airfares and create new jobs.
Their push, fueled by a multimillion-dollar lobbying campaign sponsored by Delta, aims to enact changes as part of legislation that would reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration for another five years.
The effort to relax the so-called perimeter rule is caught up in battles for market share among airlines, local politics in the Washington area and friction over the FAA’s chronic and worsening problems managing air traffic and safety.
But unlike many of the special-interest battles in Washington, this one has personal ramifications for lawmakers — or at least those who shuttle home each week to points west that cannot be reached easily from Reagan National, located just across the Potomac River from downtown Washington and a quick ride from Capitol Hill. (Another Washington-area airport, Washington Dulles International Airport, is about 25 miles to the west.)
“I absolutely would be in favor” of additional direct flights from Reagan National to points outside the current 1,250-mile perimeter, said Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont., adding that he would need to see more details before supporting any particular bill.
Tester described his commute — which involves a predawn, 90-minute drive from his farm near Big Sandy, Montana, to Great Falls International Airport and a layover in Minneapolis, Salt Lake City or Denver — as “a pain.”
Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah and one of the lawmakers seeking to allow more long-distance flights from Reagan National, said he had recently missed one from Salt Lake City to Washington and had to wait a day and a half for another.
Ultimately, he had to fly into Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport, roughly 25 miles northeast of Capitol Hill, and take an hourlong Uber ride to his office. “Unfortunately, many Utahns and Americans from the West lack access to their representatives, our nation’s historic sites and federal agencies,” he said at an event outside the Capitol promoting legislation to authorize additional flights.
It is not clear whether public policy will be swayed in this case by questions of whether members of Congress should be able to avoid inconvenient connecting flights or have more options at a nearby airport. And other issues are at play.
Lawmakers from Maryland and Virginia, the states that would be most affected by increased flights in and out of Reagan National, have argued that the airport, in Arlington, Virginia — a spot that an energetic traveler could reach on foot from the Lincoln Memorial — is already strained by traffic, limited parking and stressed baggage systems.
“Right now, DCA already has the busiest runway in the country,” Rep. Abigail Spanberger, D-Va., who opposes the proposed perimeter exceptions, said in a statement. “I’m also concerned in the wake of a recent FAA analysis that found that more long-haul flights at DCA would throw the airport’s operational performance out of balance.”
United Airlines and American Airlines, Delta’s biggest competitors, are also opposed to relaxing the perimeter rule. Those carriers argue that additional long-distance flights at Reagan National would cause passenger delays and might even waylay the FAA’s reauthorization. And if the perimeter changes were passed, yet another industry tussle over which new routes could ultimately be offered would likely follow.
In an internal memo in May, the FAA wrote that adding long-distance flights to Reagan National’s schedule without taking away existing ones would strain the system. Reagan National already ranks as No. 10 among U.S. airports in delays, the memo said.
But supporters of the shift consider their own unwieldy commutes to be evidence of a system in need of improvement.
In April, Delta established a nonprofit called the Capital Access Alliance to make the case for adding new exceptions to the perimeter rule, which dates to 1966 and has been updated occasionally over the years.
Joined by small businesses; West Coast companies like Columbia Sportswear and Adidas; and trade associations in states like Utah, Texas and Washington, the alliance said the perimeter rule has outlived its usefulness as a bulwark against airport congestion and competition that could have hurt Dulles — which opened in 1962 — in its early years.
The group also said that the congestion issues that the FAA has flagged are not a factor during certain times of day, creating an opening for new flights.
Delta is also hoping to operate lucrative new long-distance flights to and from Reagan National, where its current market share is 14%, according to a Boston Consulting Group analysis commissioned by the airline. Delta officials say they hope to establish or increase service to cities including Austin, Texas; Salt Lake City; and Seattle.
Delta has hired the influential lobbyist Jeff Miller, who is known for having Speaker Kevin McCarthy’s ear, to help its case.
Jamie Baker, an airline analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said that while it was too early to predict the financial implications of exceptions to the perimeter rule for major airlines like Delta, the changes could result in reduced service to smaller cities from Reagan National.
Defenders of the perimeter rule have emphasized that possibility.
“Cities and states that rely on convenient, on-time access to Washington as a destination or connection risk losing access,” a nonprofit called the Coalition to Protect America’s Regional Airports says on its website. The group is backed by United and dozens of smaller airports and trade groups, many of them within the current 1,250-mile perimeter.
But the lengthy journeys that lawmakers can face en route to Washington appear to have inspired some to push for new exceptions to the existing limits.
In May, Rep. Hank Johnson, a Democrat from Delta’s home state of Georgia, and Owens introduced legislation that would allow 28 new daily round-trip flights at Reagan National. Sens. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., and Cynthia Lummis, R-Wyo., introduced a similar bill in the Senate in June.
“The operations of DCA remain as they were structured in the 1960s so as to protect the ability of Dulles International Airport to grow,” Johnson said. “Those ideals have outlived their usefulness at this point.”
Among those seeking to relax the perimeter rule is Rep. Chip Roy, R-Texas, who wants to see direct flights between Reagan National and San Antonio, parts of which are in his congressional district.
Roy can take a direct flight from Austin to Reagan National, he said, but sometimes that flight does not arrive early enough for him to make meetings of the House Rules Committee, forcing him to use Dulles or Baltimore/Washington instead.
“It’s a little bit clunky,” Roy said.
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., tried to relax Reagan National’s perimeter restrictions in the late 1990s and to get rid of the rule entirely in the late 2000s. While McCain was not able to eliminate the rule, he did succeed in winning new exceptions to create flights from Reagan National to Phoenix in the process. He continued to take flights home with connections, however, to avoid accusations of self-dealing.
The impact of the push by McCain, who died in 2018, was such that Rep. Debbie Lesko, R-Ariz., who is from the Phoenix area, is declining to support the effort by some of her House colleagues to loosen the perimeter rule, fearing that it could backfire on Arizona.
“We do have several direct flights to Phoenix already,” Lesko, who flies direct to Reagan National, said with a chuckle, “and so opening it up to, let’s say, Utah or things, may reduce the number of direct flights to Phoenix. So for my constituents, I don’t think I would sign onto that bill.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Airlines; Legislators; Airports; Aviation; Legislation; Air fares; Cities; Market shares

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports Air fares Market shares

Location: Baltimore Maryland; Texas; United States--US; Virginia; Utah

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Federal Aviation Administration--FAA; NAICS: 926120

Identifier / keyword: Senate; Law And Legislation; Wyoming; Western States (Us); House Of Representatives; Nineteen Hundred Sixties; Jpmorgan Chase & Company; United States; Washington (State); Spanberger, Abigail; Arizona; Federal Aviation Administration; Columbia Sportswear Company; Georgia; Minneapolis (Minn); Politics And Government; Mccarthy, Kevin (1965 ); Seattle (Wash); Nonprofit Organizations; Commuting; Airports; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Warnock, Raphael G; Little League Baseball And Softball; Baltimore (Md); Washington (Ga); Tester, Jon; Phoenix (Ariz); Lummis, Cynthia; United States Politics And Government; Texas; Utah; Mccain, John; Walker, Mark (1969 ); Dulles International Airport (Wash ington, Dc); Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; United Airlines; Marshall, Thurgood; Delta Air Lines Inc; Polls And Public Opinion; Historic Buildings And Sites; Miller, Jeff (1974 ); Arlington (Tex); Two Thousands (Decade); States (Us); Johnson, Henry C; American Airlines; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Salt Lake City (Utah); Montana; Delays (Transportation); San Antonio (Tex); Virginia; Travel And Vacations; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; House Committee On Rules; Coronavirus Delta Variant; Aviation Accidents, Safety And Disasters; Austin (Tex); Potomac River; Lesko, Debbie (1958 ); Arlington (Va); Washington (Dc); Columbia (Space Shuttle); Airlines And Airplanes; Adidas Ag; Funerals And Memorials; Maryland; Roy, Chip (1972 ); Boston Consulting Group; Great Falls (Mont)

Title: The Frequent Fliers of Congress Seek Faster Ways Home

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-05T22:39:04Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833294074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frequent-fliers-congress-seek-faster-ways-home/docview/2833294074/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Rise and Uncertain Future Of a Downtown Institution: [Style Desk]

Author: Ortved, John

Publication info: Ortved, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rise-uncertain-future-downtown-institution/docview/2831912791/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Paper Magazine made its debut in June 1984. The first issue was a foldout poster with a look as minimalist as the publication's name, matching the raw aesthetic that reigned over Lower Manhattan in those days.
With its mix of bubbly enthusiasm and Gen-X skepticism, Paper became the scrappy kid sibling to the argumentative Village Voice and the lustrous Interview. Its readers were beautiful people and misfits, insiders and outsiders. Cover subjects included Sandra Bernhard, Naomi Campbell, Deee-lite, Kim Gordon, Cyndi Lauper, Queen Latifah, Chloë Sevigny, Venus Williams and Kim Kardashian.
The brains behind the operation were Kim Hastreiter and David Hershkovits, who had met while working at The SoHo Weekly News , an alternative paper that folded in 1982. On their watch Paper tracked all that was young, queer and cool in the culture until 2017, when it was acquired by EntTech Media Group.
In April, EntTech laid off the staff and sought a buyer. A few weeks ago, the media entrepreneur Brian Calle , who had resurrected The Village Voice and LA Weekly, said in an interview for this article that he had struck a deal to bring Paper back. In this oral history, the main players describe the highs and lows of a mostly glorious 40-year run.
Cyndi Lauper, musician: It was a very creative, inventive time. And there were no rules. You made it up as you went along. You invented yourself. That was such a great part of the '80s. It was so inspiring.
Kim Hastreiter, co-founder: SoHo was bubbling. We were right in the middle of it, and David wanted to start a weekly. We tried to raise money for two years, but everyone rejected us. So we ended up just having to do it ourselves.
David Hershkovits, co-founder: We were trying to figure out how we were going to start this thing. I received a poster in the mail for a Kenny Scharf art opening. I was lying in bed and I unfolded it and went, "This could be something that we can make into a magazine. Do it as a poster." It was visually stunning and different.
Carlo McCormick, writer, editor, 1984-2017: It started off a misshapen and unwieldy oddity in print. It celebrated a time of amateurism that's probably been lost in New York.
Kim Hastreiter: I sold ads to Danceteria, Patricia Field, the Fun Gallery, the Pyramid. The ads were like $ 250 each. I would personally have to get the ad and collect the money.
In the early years, Paper was a D.I.Y. operation run mostly out of Ms. Hastreiter's loft on Lispenard Street in TriBeCa. Richard Weigand, who was then a freelance designer at The New York Times, and Lucy Sisman, a designer and journalist who also worked at The Times, helped give the publication its distinctive look.
David Hershkovits: It was super hard because we didn't have the equipment. We would go to The Times and produce a lot of the magazine secretly.
Richard Weigand, art director, The New York Times: I said, "Well, since we're in the building, you might as well come and do it here." I was stuck there all day anyway.
Todd Eberle, photographer: It was just X-acto blades and this thing called a waxing machine. They would have column lines drawn out, and you would literally paste a piece of text onto that column. And then there would be a freak out, because they noticed a comma was missing. I remember searching around on the floor, trying to find a waxy comma.
Kim Hastreiter: You didn't sleep. We were so exhausted. Onetime David had the matte knife and he said, "Has anybody seen a reverse apostrophe?"
Richard Pandiscio, then the art director of Condé Nast's House & Garden, came aboard as the lead designer, working on Paper in his off hours. Soon, ad revenue allowed it to morph from a broadsheet into a perfect-bound magazine.
Kim Hastreiter: My parents lived on 12th Street, near Fairchild Publications. My father called me, hysterical: "They're throwing away all the desks! I have them for you!" He had all these giant steel desks from the 1940s that weighed a million pounds. But we had to take them because they were free. And that put me over the edge because I had 10 gigantic desks in my house. So we got an office.
Debi Mazar, actress: Kim was on the pulse of everything. I was doing a lot of photo shoots for her, and we just became girlfriends -- not lovers, but girlfriends. I was 16 and I was working at the Mudd Club. Kenny Scharf, Keith Haring and Jean-Michel Basquiat were my friends. No one was famous yet.
Anna Sui, fashion designer: Kim had this column about things she was obsessed with. It made your month, if you were on that list, because everybody was reading Paper.
Kenny Scharf, artist: Of course, we were aware of Paper. Basically, it was the East Village Eye and Paper, and then some magazines in Japan like Brutus, that were writing about us.
Cyndi Lauper: It wasn't like other magazines. It really documented the downtown scene.
Sally Singer, head of fashion direction, Amazon: I was a teenager in California and I would seek it out on specialized newsstands. It was a dispatch from a cool world that I didn't live in.
John Waters, filmmaker: I had a subscription from the day I saw it.
Todd Eberle, photographer: There was downtown and there was uptown. One never went uptown -- maybe to the Met. And Paper was the first to kind of start mixing that up. It was a really interesting creative friction that caused sparks.
In 1989, to celebrate its fifth anniversary, the B-52's posed for the cover. Still, it was more succès d'estime than moneymaker.
Kim Hastreiter: I worked for no salary for, like, eight years. I had to have other jobs.
Maggie McCormick: Sometimes bill collectors would come. We had to hide Kim under the blankets on her bed.
Debi Mazar: I did hair and makeup, and I was good at it. I did a lot of work for Paper. I don't think I got paid.
Todd Eberle: They didn't pay photographers. It was all for the glory of being published, which was a big deal then.
Richard Pandiscio, art director, 1985-1990: They gave me a lot of I.O.U.'s, which was cute.
While keeping an eye out for whatever was new in the culture, Paper included politics in the mix, mainly because the AIDS epidemic was ravaging the world the magazine covered. Joe Dolce covered the AIDS crisis; the graffiti artist Futura wrote about video games; and George Wayne documented nightlife.
David Hershkovits: Reagan wouldn't even say the word AIDS in 1984. And while this whole uproar was going on, Tina Brown put Ronald Reagan and Nancy Reagan on the cover of Vanity Fair, dancing, as if there was nothing wrong. We took a stand. It wasn't that popular in those days.
Bethann Hardison, activist, former model: They didn't try to be diverse, because they naturally were.
Maggie McCormick, office manager, 1985-1993: There were just so many moments at Paper when you knew the world was being changed. I saw one of LL Cool J's first performances.
Fenton Bailey, producer, former Paper columnist: The vibe was, "Hip-hop is a fad. It'll come and go." And that was not the attitude of Paper.
Dennis Dermody, film critic, 1986-2017: I got a call from David Hershkovits. He said, "Listen, we need a film critic, and I hear you go to the movies all the time. We don't pay." And I said, "Well, that sweetens the pot." But who else would let me put out an article called "How to Cook and Eat Macaulay Culkin"?
Christine Muhlke, managing editor, 1994-2000: I got to ask bell hooks if she'd write a column for us. I said, "I can only pay you $ 100 a month but I promise I won't change a word." She said, "Sweetie, that is the nicest, sweetest thing I've ever heard in my life. Yes!"
Eileen Myles, poet, activist: I had just run for president, so I had this excessive idea of who I was, and I didn't know where to go next, and those guys offered me this opportunity to be in their web. I wrote whatever the hell I was thinking about -- millennial cults, labor movements, being queer living in the country. They were wide open.
Dennis Dermody: We were doing an April Fool's issue in 1995, the year Disney was putting out "Pocahontas." So I wrote this jokey article about how I saw a screening of it and it was depraved, filthy, and was going to get an NC-17 rating. La Stampa, in Rome, put up a big article: "Scandal Rocks Disney!" Disney held a press conference to say it was just a joke. David called me and said, "You've got to get down here, because your article is an international incident." I couldn't stop laughing.
Paper's interns included people who went on to success in their fields -- the costume designer Sophie de Rakoff, the musician Jake Shears and the New York Magazine deputy editor Alexis Swerdloff.
Kim Hastreiter: If you found someone smart, you dumped everything on them. "Want to write a cover story?" And they'd be in high school.
Susanna Howe, assistant, editor, photographer, 1994-1996: Paper was like magazine grad school, because you were allowed to do so much that you would never be allowed to do at a bigger magazine. When I finally left, to go to Condé Nast, I quickly learned what big-boy magazine culture was: Being treated really badly. They wanted me to pick up their dry cleaning.
Mickey Boardman, intern, office manager, editorial director, 1992-2017: I applied to be an intern in March of 1992. I basically got kicked out of school. I didn't really like Parsons and they didn't really care for me, either. But Paper loved me and they loved my crazy outfits. I was a crystal meth addict at the time. I would wear Lilly Pulitzer pants with a lady's polyester blouse and a chandelier necklace.
Christine Muhlke: Mickey was interviewing this woman for the receptionist job, and a mouse got caught in a trap, and he was killing it with his bare hands while he was interviewing her.
Susanna Howe: I remember that so well. He thought it was OK to take two sticky traps and sandwich the mouse between them and then throw that into the garbage. And you could still hear it squeaking. And he just went back to his desk.
Vikki Tobak, intern, columnist, 1992-1997: Carlo McCormick, one of our editors, had just gotten arrested and put in a Mexican prison. It was like, "We're not working today. We're just focused on getting Carlo out of prison." That was my first week.
Carlo McCormick: I was indeed incarcerated in Mexico, sentenced to 25 years federal time for trafficking in peyote, which, of course, I was not. I was there doing a story on the art of a tribe that used peyote for their sacred visions.
To raise funds for Mr. McCormick's legal defense, Paper put on a show at Irving Plaza. Karen Finley, Richard Hell, the Psychedelic Furs and Deee-lite were on the bill. (Mr. McCormick was later exonerated in a Mexican court.) As the '90s moved along, Paper started featuring mainstream celebrities on its covers. When the magazine wasn't covering parties, it was hosting them.
David Hershkovits: The '90s were the most lucrative time for us. There were lots of ads. New York was exploding.
Vikki Tobak: Paper had a lot of power. Walking up to a door, I'd just say, "I'm Vicki from Paper," and the seas would part.
Hunter Hill, publisher, 1993-2013: We didn't have Condé Nast expense accounts. What we did have was a lot of cool people. Certain companies understood that and embraced it: Calvin Klein, Levi's, Adidas.
Pedro Almodóvar, filmmaker: Kim has the best nose to smell emerging talent. When I released "All About My Mother," she introduced me to two adorable beings, Jake and Maggie Gyllenhaal. They were very trendy in the city.
Anna Sui: Somebody would call and say, "Oh, Paper's having this party on the Manhattan Bridge." There were hundreds of people, and I remember how exciting it was, just seeing the subway cars go by. It lasted 20 minutes before the police came. You felt like it was something special and renegade.
The media industry fell on hard times in the 21st century, destabilized by the internet. Like other publications Paper looked beyond its core business. It sponsored a concert series, Sounds of Paper. There were also Paper pop-up shops, an art store at Art Basel Miami and brand partnerships.
Alexis Swerdloff, intern, associate editor, executive editor, 2005-2012: It became a little more professionalized at some point. If you had a musician who had an album coming out, it was useful to have their first piece in Paper. I kept a Lady Gaga album on my desk with a Post-it note from a colleague, saying, "You should go check her out." And I was like, "Pass." Oops.
Carlo McCormick: The big blow was 9/11. Advertising budgets just dried up.
Kim Hastreiter: The designer Stephen Sprouse called me and said, "Target asked me to do something." I was like, "What?" This is like in 2002. No one was doing collaborations. I called up all these talented people and said, "Can you design something for under $ 15 for Target?" Manolo Blahnik did a shoehorn, Isaac Mizrahi designed a mothball that's a cube, so it didn't roll, and I ran it at 30 pages with the title "Hey, Target: How About This?" I got a call from Target's chief marketing officer, Michael Francis. He said, "This is the best thing." He took me to the Odeon and hired me. I said, "You have to pay Paper." So I worked for Target until the day I left.
Michael Francis, former chief marketing officer, Target: Kim helped us identify the right partners to engage. Frankly, we were borrowing the equity that they created with Paper. It was cutting-edge.
Carlo McCormick: I used to look down on other publications: "These magazines are way too much about marketing!" Well, Paper eventually became that, as well. It was a little sad and a little embarrassing to me, but I wasn't the one trying to keep the lights on. So, no judgment.
Paper created its own marketing agency, Extra Extra. And it adapted to the internet, scoring an online hit in 2014 with a Jean-Paul Goude photo shoot featuring Kim Kardashian. In one picture, she is seen balancing a Champagne glass on her derrière. At a time when Paper's print circulation stood at 155,000, the feature racked up 16 million web views in two days. It also got the attention of the media executive Tom Florio, who had served as the publisher of Vogue during his two-decade tenure at Condé Nast.
John Cafarelli, chief operating officer, 2012-2018: The magazine was still a beachhead of the brand. But in terms of how we made money? We sold access and ideas to some of the biggest companies in the world: Target, American Express, Tiffany & Company.
David Hershkovits: It became a different business because of the internet. And I felt outside the content of the magazine as time went on. I saw the writing on the wall.
Tom Florio, chief executive officer, EntTech: The Kim Kardashian cover shoot cost $ 10,000. And it took 30 million people to Papermag.com. An Annie Leibovitz shoot at Vogue cost significantly more and only drove 750,000 views to their website.
EntTech bought Paper in 2017. As its identity continued to evolve, the coronavirus pandemic cut into its events business. In June, about a month after EntTech laid off the staff, Paper was sold to Mr. Calle.
Brian Calle: I'm passionate about figuring out ways to create a new model for these legacy institutions, but then also preserve the work itself. I think Paper is perfectly positioned to be the go-to avant-garde agency.
David Hershkovits: Good luck to them. It's not why we started it. We got our agency thing going so we could put out the magazine. The magazine was always primary.
Kim Hastreiter: I had my knee replaced. The doctor asked me a million health questions. And then, his last thing, he says: "I just want to say thank you. Paper saved my life. I was a young gay, growing up in Indiana, and I found Paper and it made me realize I wasn't alone."
Photograph Top left, Paper magazine, over the years. Top right, Angie Estrada in a Paper dress designed by Angel Estrada, her brother, at Susanne Bartsch's 1989 "Love Ball" benefit for the Design Industry Foundation for AIDS. Center left and right, Paper's first issue. Third row, the founders of Paper, David Hershkovits and Kim Hastreiter, in 1988. Above, the Mudd Club in 1979. Above left, the 2014 Kim Kardashian cover, an online megahit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AT LEFT: VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (MAGAZINES); RITA BARROS/GETTY IMAGES (HERSHKOVITS AND HASTREITER). AT RIGHT FROM TOP: FAIRCHILD ARCHIVE/PENSKE MEDIA, VIA GETTY IMAGES; VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALLAN TANNENBAUM/GETTY IMAGES.) This article appeared in print on page ST3.

Subject: Fund raising; Human immunodeficiency virus--HIV; Acquired immune deficiency syndrome--AIDS; Magazines; Motion picture directors & producers; Fashion designers

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Lauper, Cyndi

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Village Voice; NAICS: 513110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/01/style/paper-magazine-history.html

Title: The Rise and Uncertain Future Of a Downtown Institution:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 2, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals-- United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831912791

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rise-uncertain-future-downtown-institution/docview/2831912791/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Big Change in Recruiting: Paying Attention to High School: [Sports Desk]

Author: Witz, Billy

Publication info: Witz, Billy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-change-recruiting-paying-attention-high/docview/2831149490/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: One of the few enduring changes from the N.C.A.A. after an investigation of basketball recruiting by the F.B.I. is more involvement from high school teams in showcasing players.
Tyler Boston has several strikes against him. For one, he's a 5-foot-10 high school senior without the size to be easily noticed by college recruiters. For another, college basketball coaches can afford to be picky with high school players because the transfer portal is brimming with older players who have an extra pandemic year of eligibility.
Moreover, when Boston travels to high-profile recruiting showcases in Atlanta and Las Vegas next month, it's unclear whether he will be able to highlight the breadth of his skills to college coaches as he'll be competing for playing time on a talented travel team.
Fortunately for Boston, he had another stage the last two weekends -- playing with his high school team, Bullis of Potomac, Md., against some of the best private schools in the basketball hotbed known as the DMV (shorthand for the Washington area: the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia).
The DMV Live event was among the roughly 50 N.C.A.A.-certified events around the country in which college coaches were permitted to make in-person evaluations of players with their high school teams. The events ranged from the June Jam in Appleton, Wis., to Arizona's mammoth Section 7 tournament, in which a dozen courts were laid out in a domed N.F.L. stadium, to the New York City Public Schools Athletic League Showcase in Brooklyn.
Over the last two weekends, Boston displayed his proficiency running a team, knocking down 3-pointers (he made half of his 26 attempts) and defending with purpose. He had no scholarship offers a little more than a week ago, but now his phone is buzzing.
Holy Cross offered a scholarship. Then East Tennessee State, Fordham and Fairfield.
A week later, the University of Pennsylvania said it had a spot for him. As did Robert Morris, Merrimack, Delaware State and Mount St. Mary's.
"When they call you, it's great news," said Boston, who since ninth grade has commuted 50 minutes to school from his home in the Baltimore suburbs with the hope of playing in college. "I had interest before, but no offers. It means hard work is paying off. I spent a lot of time in the gym, and I'm thankful that things have come to promise."
Events like DMV Live, open to high school teams during in-person recruiting windows, are among the few enduring byproducts of the N.C.A.A. reforms that were promised in the wake of the F.B.I.'s corruption investigation that rocked the college basketball world nearly six years ago.
A commission, headed by the former secretary of state Condoleezza Rice, called for some eye-catching changes, like creating a new process for N.C.A.A. investigations, sharper penalties for rule-breaking coaches and postseason bans for up to five years, as well as making college freshmen ineligible if the N.B.A. continued to bar players from jumping straight from high school to the pro league. Only a handful of the ideas have been implemented, and even fewer have stuck.
A reminder of how it's going arrived last week: The N.C.A.A. slapped Will Wade, the McNeese State coach who was fired by Louisiana State last year, with a 10-game suspension and barred him from recruiting off campus for two years, putting a bow on an investigation that had lingered for four years.
Wade's punishment did not include anything for the "strong-ass offer" he made to one recruit and his intention to pay players at Louisiana State more than the N.B.A.'s rookie minimum salary, claims that were captured on a wiretapped call that was first reported by Yahoo and then broadcast by HBO. The committee reviewing the case said it needed more evidence.
Justice in the corruption scandal, as it turned out, landed almost exclusively at the feet of Black assistant coaches, who were swiftly fired, sometimes jailed and remain out of college basketball -- unlike the white head coaches who were implicated.
What the F.B.I. wiretaps and hidden cameras did was lay bare college basketball's underground economy, fueled by money from shoe companies and agents and choreographed with the help of handlers who direct players to schools. Those middlemen are often affiliated with shoe-company-sponsored travel teams, and in the past 25 years, they have largely replaced high school coaches as the gatekeepers for recruits.
In its reform attempt, the N.C.A.A. in 2019 sought to wrestle influence back from Nike, Adidas and Under Armour by reconfiguring the recruiting calendar. A 12-day recruiting window in July, when the shoe companies have held their nationwide tournaments, was cut to six days. The other six days were given over to high school teams in June, and N.C.A.A.-run camps were added to a recruiting window in late July. (A reconfigured N.C.A.A. camp will resume this summer -- along with one for girls -- after a three-year, pandemic-related hiatus.)
Grumbling about the changes from college coaches, who groused about watered-down talent and disorganization at some tournaments, has given way to acceptance -- at least with events like DMV Live, which charges college coaches $ 250 for a packet that includes players' email addresses and phone numbers.
The benefits include seeing players in a more structured setting than a typical grass-roots game, which are more likely to highlight a player's individual skills.
The tournament was held at two gyms at DeMatha Catholic High School, which has produced a long line of N.B.A. players, including Adrian Dantley, Victor Oladipo and Jordan Hawkins, who was the 14th pick in the draft last week by the New Orleans Pelicans.
On Saturday, Hawkins's coach at the University of Connecticut, Dan Hurley, was at DeMatha looking for the next generation of talent that might enable his team, the reigning national champion, to compete for another title.
"The more evaluation tools, seeing them with different teams, different styles of play, different types of coaches helps give you a different evaluation of the player," Hurley said.
Hurley had plenty of company. Joining him in the main gym were Kansas State's Jerome Tang, Virginia Tech's Mike Young, Providence's Kim English and Notre Dame's Micah Shrewsberry, who sandwiched his visit between trips on Friday to Wisconsin and on Sunday to North Carolina. Also present were assistants from Villanova, Virginia, Iowa, Indiana and North Carolina State, along with dozens of other coaches from mid-majors and virtually every Ivy League university.
The N.C.A.A.'s hand is visible in the lengths the events are required to take to keep coaches from coming into contact with players. Reams of yellow police tape keep college coaches away from players or their families. Coaches have separate bathrooms and gym entrances.
That separation led to some coaches, phone to their ear, waving to a player or parents from across the gym to let them know they were watching.
It's questionable how much the influence of grass-roots coaches has waned, but the high school showcases have nudged more engagement between high school and college coaches, several high school coaches said.
"College coaches are getting to know the kids better because they're speaking to the high school coaches more," said Damin Altizer, the coach at St. Anne's-Belfield School in Charlottesville, Va., whose team's whirlwind movement, selfless passing and deadeye shooting evoked prime Golden State Warriors basketball.
"How are they after a long day in class and then coming to practice?" he continued. "Obviously, A.A.U. is so valuable because they're getting this great exposure. But the high school coaches see them more as a person, which can't be overstated how valuable that is because that's how they're going to succeed when they get to college."
The biggest lure for college coaches at DeMatha over the weekend was the slate of four games involving Paul VI Catholic High School of Chantilly, Va., which has the top four players in the state, according to the recruiting site 247 Sports, led by a 6-foot-11 center, Patrick Ngongba II.
Paul VI won its four games last weekend, three by blowout, but got a test on Saturday from Bullis before prevailing, 58-53. In that game, Boston, the Bullis point guard, more than held his own. He scored 16 points and had six assists -- both game highs -- and turned the ball over just once. His determined play, as one of the smallest players on the court, seemed to drive his team -- like the pros he admires most, Jalen Brunson, Damian Lillard and Stephen Curry.
If Boston opened the eyes of some college coaches, perhaps they will inquire further. They might learn that his father is a middle-school math teacher, his mother works for the federal government, he carries a 3.7 grade-point average and he plans to study finance or accounting.
It's the kind of background that, in the right setting, might enable him to stand out in a crowd.
Photograph Tyler Boston got several offers after playing in a recruiting showcase with his high school team.; The 6-foot-11 center Patrick Ngongba II drew a lot of interest during a recruiting showcase. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BE MY GUEST PHOTOGRAPHY); Will Wade was fired by L.S.U. last year after a wiretap in an F.B.I. investigation caught him discussing payment offers to players. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY LYONS/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B9.

ERIC Subject: High School Seniors; Mathematics Teachers; Team Sports; Grade 9; Recruitment

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Athletic recruitment; College basketball; Informal economy; High school basketball; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Informal economy

Location: United States--US; Virginia; North Carolina; Louisiana

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/29/sports/ncaabasketball/ncaa-recruiting.html

Title: Big Change in Recruiting: Paying Attention to High School:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 30, 2023

column: On College Basketball

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831149490

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-change-recruiting-paying-attention-high/docview/2831149490/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 30, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Congress Signals Forced-Labor Concerns With Chinese Shopping Sites: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Swanson, Ana; Fu, Claire

Publication info: Swanson, Ana; Fu, Claire. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congress-signals-forced-labor-concerns-with/docview/2828583374/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A congressional investigation into Temu and Shein offered new insight into services that are delivering a deluge of cheap and little-regulated products.
Lawmakers are flagging what they say are likely significant violations of U.S. law by Temu, a popular Chinese shopping platform, accusing it of providing an unchecked channel that allows goods made with forced labor to flow into the United States.
In a report released Thursday, the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party said Temu, a rapidly growing site that sells electronics, makeup, toys and clothing, had failed "to maintain even the facade of a meaningful compliance program" for its supply chains and was likely shipping products made with forced labor into the United States on a "regular basis."
The report stems from a continuing investigation into forced labor in supply chains that touch on China. Lawmakers said the report was based on responses submitted to the committee by Temu, as well as the fast fashion retailer Shein, Nike and Adidas.
The report offered a particularly scathing assessment of Temu, saying there is an "extremely high risk that Temu's supply chains are contaminated with forced labor." The site advertises itself under the tagline "Shop like a billionaire" and is now the second most downloaded app in the Apple store.
The report also criticized Shein's use of an importing method that allows companies to bring products into the United States duty-free and with less scrutiny from customs, as long as packages are sent directly to consumers and valued at under $ 800. Some lawmakers have been pushing to close off this shipping channel, which is called de minimis, for companies sourcing goods from China.
Lawmakers said that they were troubled by what the bipartisan committee's investigation had uncovered so far, and that Congress should review import loopholes and strengthen forced labor laws.
"Temu is doing next to nothing to keep its supply chains free from slave labor," said Representative Mike Gallagher, a Wisconsin Republican who heads the committee. "At the same time, Temu and Shein are building empires around the de minimis loophole in our import rules: dodging import taxes and evading scrutiny on the millions of goods they sell to Americans."
"The initial findings of this report are concerning and reinforce the need for full transparency by companies potentially profiting from C.C.P. forced labor," said Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi, an Illinois Democrat and a co-author of the report, referring to the Chinese Communist Party.
Temu, which began operating in the United States in September, told the committee that it now brought millions of shipments into the United States annually through a network of more than 80,000 suppliers that sell directly from Chinese factories to U.S. consumers. The site sells clothing, temporary tattoos, modeling clay, electronics and other items directly to consumers for low prices, like $ 3 for a baby romper, $ 6 for sandals and $ 8 for a vacuum.
The report also contained new data showing that Temu and Shein make heavy use of the de minimis rule, together accounting for almost 600,000 such packages shipped to the United States daily.
The shipping method allows retailers to sell their goods to consumers at cheaper prices, since they are not subject to duties, taxes or government fees that apply to traditional retailers that typically ship overseas goods in bulk.
De minimis shipping also requires far less information to be disclosed about the products and the companies involved in the transaction, making it harder for U.S. customs officials to detect packages with narcotics, counterfeits and goods made with forced labor. The number of de minimis packages entering the United States more than tripled between 2016 and 2021, when it reached 720 million.
At an annualized rate, the shipments reported by Shein and Temu would represent more than 30 percent of the de minimis shipments that came into the United States last year, and nearly half of those packages from China, the report said.
Both Shein and Temu have steadily taken market share from U.S. brick-and-mortar retailers and won over younger consumers by investing in sophisticated e-commerce technology and offering hundreds more new products than competitors. Among teenagers, Shein was the third most popular e-commerce site behind Amazon and Nike, according to a Piper Sandler report this spring.
As their popularity has grown, so has congressional scrutiny of the firms, given their ties to China. Shein was originally based in China but has moved its headquarters to Singapore. Temu, which is based in Boston, is a subsidiary of PDD Holdings, which moved its headquarters to Ireland from China this year.
Lawmakers have been questioning their relationship with the Chinese government, as well as the companies' ability to vet their supply chains to ensure they don't contain materials or products from Xinjiang. Last year, the U.S. imposed a ban on products from Xinjiang, citing the region's use of forced labor in factories and mines.
The Chinese government has carried out a crackdown in Xinjiang on Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities, including the organized use of forced labor to pick cotton; work in mines; and manufacture electronics, polysilicon and car parts. Because of this, the U.S. government now presumes all materials from the region to be made with forced labor unless proved otherwise.
Shein said in a statement that it had zero tolerance for forced labor and had a robust compliance system, including a code of conduct, independent audits, robust tracing technology and third-party testing. It provided detailed information to the House committee and will continue to answer its questions, the company said.
"We have no contract manufacturers in the Xinjiang region," it said. "As a global company, our policy is to comply with the customs and import laws of the countries in which we operate."
Temu did not respond to a request for comment.
Laboratory tests commissioned by Bloomberg News in November found that some Shein clothing had been made with cotton from Xinjiang. Shein didn't dispute those findings, but said in a statement to Bloomberg that it took steps in all global markets to comply with local laws and had engaged another lab, Oritain, to test its materials.
The congressional report also criticized Temu's failure to set up a compliance or auditing system that could independently verify that its sellers were not sourcing products from Xinjiang.
Temu told the committee that it had a reporting system that consumers and sellers could use to file complaints, and that it asked its sellers to sign a code of conduct specifying a "zero-tolerance policy" for the use of forced, indentured or penal labor. Temu's code of conduct also says the company reserves the right to inspect factories and warehouses to ensure compliance.
But the code does not mention Xinjiang or the U.S. ban, and Temu told the House committee that it did not prohibit vendors from selling products made in Xinjiang, the report said.
Temu also argued that its use of direct shipping meant that the U.S. consumer, not Temu, would bear the ultimate responsibility for adhering to the ban on Xinjiang goods.
"Temu is not the importer of record with respect to goods shipped to the United States," the report quoted it as saying.
Customs lawyers said that it was not entirely clear which party would be liable for complying with the U.S. ban, but that any company facilitating the importation of goods from Xinjiang could face civil or criminal penalties.
The committee report also pictured a key chain that was listed on Temu's website this month and labeled "pendant with Xinjiang cotton." The key chain itself is shaped like a bud of cotton, and the report said that the Xinjiang label "may refer to the materials, the supplier, the pattern or the origin of the product."
Temu's "policy to not prohibit the sale of products that explicitly advertise their Xinjiang origins, even in the face of mounting congressional and public scrutiny on related topics, raises serious questions," the report said.
The New York Times was not able to verify whether the product is made using Xinjiang cotton, which is barred under U.S. law. The Times found an identical product listed for sale on a Chinese wholesale site that was described as manufactured in Henan Province, outside Xinjiang.
A Times review of information shared by Temu vendors on Chinese social media sites also suggested that Temu did not require sellers to provide detailed information about where their products were made or which companies manufactured them.
Vendors sharing tips online about Temu's product review process gave several reasons that Temu commonly rejected new listings: for example, if the price was too high, if the samples were inconsistent with the photos or if the goods lacked consumer warning labels. But none mentioned concerns about links to Xinjiang or the U.S. import ban.
Jordyn Holman contributed reporting from New York.
Jordyn Holman contributed reporting from New York.
Photograph A model re-education camp in Xinjiang, China, in 2019, top. United States law bans products from Xinjiang because of its ties to forced labor. Visitors shopping at a Shein pop-up store in Plano, Texas, last year, left. A young Uyghur woman working in a Xinjiang garment factory, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIÉ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; COOPER NEILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Bans; Consumers; Cotton; Product reviews; Legislators; Political parties; Supply chains; Forced labor; Shipments; Shopping; Congressional investigations; Compliance; Congressional committees

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Supply chains Forced labor Compliance

Location: New York; United States--US; China

Company / organization: Name: Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/22/business/economy/shein-temu-forced-labor-china.html

Title: Congress Signals Forced-Labor Concerns With Chinese Shopping Sites:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 23, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2828583374

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congress-signals-forced-labor-concerns-with/docview/2828583374/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 23, 2023

Last updated: 2025-06-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Murky Frontier of Rules For the Space Industry: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Livni, Ephrat; Kessler, Sarah

Publication info: Livni, Ephrat; Kessler, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/murky-frontier-rules-space-industry/docview/2827182015/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Estimated to be worth about $ 460 billion, space businesses sometimes operate in legal black holes.
Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson are racing to establish a presence in space. But what rights and obligations come with that?
It's not clear what the rules are, even as the $ 460 billion space industry is growing quickly.
Virgin Galactic, the space tourism company founded by Mr. Branson, announced on Thursday that it would launch its first commercial spaceflight this month, joining Mr. Bezos' Blue Origin, and Mr. Musk's SpaceX in sending ticketed passengers to space. But travel is just one emerging corner of the industry, which is mostly fueled by U.S. and international government contracts. The sector includes companies in the fields of satellites and communications, solar power, manufacturing, and even mining. One, Orbital Assembly, hopes to open a luxury extraterrestrial hotel by 2025.
Citigroup analysts project that space businesses will reach a trillion dollars in revenue by 2040.
All this activity raises legal questions.
In theory, space belongs to everyone. In 1967, as the United States and the Soviet Union were building up their nuclear arsenals, the United Nations signed a treaty that says no country can claim territory in space. "We didn't want to bring the Cold War into space," Michelle Hanlon, co-director of the air and space law program at the University of Mississippi, told DealBook.
Since then, a U.N. space committee has made four more treaties and five sets of principles covering areas like arms control and liability for damage caused by space objects. All are premised on the notion that space "should be devoted to enhancing the well-being of all countries and humankind, with an emphasis on promoting international cooperation."
That perspective is about to collide with reality, said Curt Blake, a space lawyer at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati and the former C.E.O. of a space start-up. "Humans have done such a bad job regulating anything of common good, like the oceans and air," he said. "Are we going to be better at caring for the moon?"
One upcoming test is a race between China and the United States to get to the poles of the moon to mine water, which could make it possible to produce fuel in space. There is little understanding of what will happen when they both get there.
"Will they live on separate sides or dot their bases?" Ms. Hanlon asked. "We don't know because we have these regulatory gaps."
Another potential conflict is brewing over 170 million pieces of debris like satellites abandoned in the Earth's orbit, known as "space trash," because their accumulation makes exploration more difficult and dangerous. Since nobody owns space, it isn't always clear whose responsibility it is to clean it up. In September, the Federal Communications Commission adopted rules ordering companies to take down nonfunctioning satellites within five years, down from 25 years.
Lawyers are wrestling with these sorts of issues at gatherings like The Hague Space Diplomacy Symposium this week at the Leiden University in the Netherlands, which focused on cooperation amid rising geopolitical tensions and competition.
The U.S. government has deliberately left some holes. In 2004, Congress imposed a moratorium on safety regulations for commercial space launches, essentially a free pass, or "learning period," that is set to expire in October. It has lasted so long because there hasn't been enough development to base new rules on. In April, a report from the RAND Corporation recommended against extending again, and the Federal Aviation Administration is planning more oversight.
Business leaders caution against creating so much regulation that it pushes innovation offshore while recognizing that we need rules. And futurists naturally have a long and expansive view. Many are concerned that we'll exploit resources in space before we're able to "access the infinity of the universe," as Ms. Hanlon put it.
"We just need to hold it together for 200 years," she said. -- Ephrat Livni
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
The Fed takes a breather. At Wednesday's meeting, the central bank kept interest rates unchanged for the first time in more than a year. But officials suggested that rates would rise more in 2023, as inflation remains "well above" the Federal Reserve's target.
JPMorgan settles. The bank secured a potential $ 290 million deal with the sex offender Jeffrey Epstein's victims, who claimed that the bank had overlooked red flags in his activity because it valued him as a wealthy client. JPMorgan Chase still faces a related lawsuit by the government of the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Bill Gates meets Xi Jinping in Beijing. The Microsoft co-founder is one of the first prominent U.S. business leaders to meet the Chinese leader since the start of the pandemic. Their talks preceded a visit by Antony J. Blinken, the secretary of state, to China.
Bud Slight. Modelo Especial replaced Bud Light as the best-selling in America, after a boycott by consumers over a promotional post by a transgender influencer. The controversy has spotlighted the challenges that brands and retailers like Adidas and Target have faced in marketing to L.G.B.T.Q. consumers in a polarized political environment.
Michael Jordan nets a big profit. The investors Gabe Plotkin and Rick Schnall reportedly bought his majority stake in the National Basketball Association's Charlotte Hornets for $ 3 billion. Jordan acquired the team in 2010 for $ 275 million and will retain a minority stake.
Companies may not know when employees use A.I.
Companies including Accenture, PwC and Morgan Stanley announced big initiatives to get their employees to use generative A.I. tools like chatbots and image generators. But even at companies that haven't introduced these tools, many workers are using them -- and they may not be mentioning it.
In a survey of 4,491 white-collar workers by the consulting firm Oliver Wyman, 39 percent of those who use generative A.I. tools said they had done so without their employer's knowledge in the last three months.
There are risks if workers use these tools without training, including that they will share private company data or not understand that A.I. tools can produce inaccurate work. (See: the lawyer who ended up citing made-up court cases in a legal brief.)
But there may also be potential. In a report this week, McKinsey estimated that generative A.I. could add $ 2.6 trillion to $ 4.4 trillion to the global economy. The research looked at 63 use cases for generative A.I. across 850 occupations, finding that 60 to 70 percent of all work tasks could be automated by currently available technology.
"Employee interest, especially amongst the younger generations, is likely ahead of many of their managers," said Ana Kreacic, the chief operating officer of Oliver Wyman's think tank, in an email to DealBook. "Some organizations are leading and some are catching up, but it takes time for best practices to evolve across different industries."
9.7 percent
-- How much consumer prices in Sweden rose last month. One potential contributing factor? Beyoncé kicked off her world tour in Stockholm, and fans who flocked to the city to see the singer pushed up the prices for hotel rooms and restaurant meals, according to Sweden's statistics agency.
On our radar: 'Winner Sells All'
Walmart and Amazon's battle to dominate retail has been an epic corporate fight. In "Winner Sells All," which publishes on Tuesday, the business journalist Jason Del Rey chronicles the clash, with hundreds of billions of dollars at stake, in illustrative detail. Mr. Del Rey has covered e-commerce for more than 10 years, and many of Amazon's and Walmart's top executives agreed to interviews for the book, as did their workers. Kirkus Reviews called it "an eye-opening look at a battle of corporate titans."
Thanks for reading! We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Consumers; Interest rates; Arms control & disarmament; Commercial space ventures; Cooperation; Employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Interest rates Employees

Location: Sweden; China; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/17/business/dealbook/space-industry-laws.html

Title: Murky Frontier of Rules For the Space Industry:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 19, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country ofpublication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2827182015

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/murky-frontier-rules-space-industry/docview/2827182015/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Shaking Things Up From Inside the Castle: [Style Desk]

Author: Caramanica, Jon

Publication info: Caramanica, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shaking-things-up-inside-castle/docview/2826906674/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Earlier this month, Pharrell Williams was in the men's atelier on the second floor of Louis Vuitton's corporate office in Paris, sunglasses on, surveying his new perch.
"Listen," he said conspiratorially. "This window is different."
The window by his desk looks out over the small plaza on the north side of the Pont Neuf, where in just a couple of weeks, his first show as Louis Vuitton men's creative director would take place. A 50-foot statue of the artist Yayoi Kusama, a Vuitton collaborator, hovered just outside. The rapper Pusha T and the streetwear innovator Nigo were milling about.
Since Mr. Williams's appointment was announced in February, he has spent a great deal of his time here, in this office and in the workshops that abut it, getting accustomed to holding the reins of the huge business he had been put at the creative helm of -- the first time a musician has been given such a grand platform in luxury fashion.
"I pinch myself every day," he said. "This is the equivalent of a castle to me. I mean, the Seine River right there -- it's like the moat."
The long path from his childhood in Virginia Beach through hip-hop producer stardom to streetwear design impact to pop music ubiquity to here was very much on his mind. "I'm a Black man -- they have given this appointment to a Black man," he said. "This is the crown jewel of the LVMH portfolio. It's everything, and I was appointed to rule in this position. So No. 1, a ruler of a position is usually like a king. But a ruler of this position for me is a perpetual student. It's what I intend to be."
A little bit later in the afternoon, Mr. Williams, 50, slipped off his blazer and slipped on a brown motorcycle jacket in full LV monogram print leather. Emblazoned on the back, in studs, were the words "PUPIL" and "KING."
His appointment to the helm of Vuitton's men's business is, depending on your perspective, a full-throated acknowledgment of the power of Black cultural capital on a global stage and a watershed moment in the absorption of hip-hop class politics into luxury fashion. Or it's a bellwether of challenging times to come for traditionally trained clothing designers who aspire to top posts, and a suggestion that global celebrity moves the needle more than directional design, even for the most successful luxury brands.
Either way, Mr. Williams did not apply for the job -- he was chosen.
In December, Alexandre Arnault, a scion of the LVMH dynasty and a longtime friend, sent Mr. Williams a text: "Please call me. The time has come."
Mr. Williams thought Mr. Arnault was perhaps going to run some name options by him for the Vuitton job. "I had been pushing somebody else," he said. "I had been pushing Nigo. My brother, always."
Nigo -- the founder of the brands A Bathing Ape and Human Made, the co-founder with Mr. Williams of Billionaire Boys Club and one of the most significant streetwear innovators -- had already been named artistic director of Kenzo, another LVMH brand.
Instead, Mr. Arnault extended the offer to Mr. Williams. "I had always wanted to work with him, in any way, shape or form since I started working in the group, which is already 10-plus years ago," Mr. Arnault said. "And it was just never the right time because either the companies were too small to work with someone as big as him, or there were already people in charge, or he was working with Chanel. And stars were so aligned now, finally."
Mr. Williams said, "I'm not calling it fortune -- I'm calling it favor."
Hiring Mr. Williams was one of the first decisions overseen by Pietro Beccari, a longtime LVMH executive, who was announced as chairman and chief executive of Louis Vuitton in January. "After Virgil, I couldn't choose a classical designer," Mr. Beccari said. "It was important that we found someone having a broader spectrum than being a very fantastic designer, which is great for the industry and we have many of them. But for that particular place, at Louis Vuitton, after Virgil, I thought we needed something more. Something that went beyond just pure design."
Mr. Williams signed the contract on Valentine's Day and soon relocated his wife and four children and much of his team. "Listen, I miss my house in Miami," he said. "And my house in Virginia. I really do. But right now, Paris is the center of the earth for me."
Playing the Game, or Not
His skin is as good as you think it is -- the additional pressure, or labor, or scrutiny of his new position has left no creases.
There was ease in his silhouette, too: a tight black double breasted vintage Vuitton blazer and well-worn white LV Trainer Snow Boots peeking out under bunched-up, flared dark bluejeans embroidered with faces derived from paintings by the Black artist Henry Taylor. The pants -- one of a few pieces Mr. Williams has deployed Taylor's work for -- will appear in the spring-summer 2024 collection, which will be shown in Paris on June 20.
He requested a tailor to come take a look at the hem of the jeans, which was a smidge too long on one side, and then sauntered over to the main conference table in the room, where he asked some colleagues to pull up images from his first ad campaign. It featured a pregnant Rihanna clutching multiple Louis Vuitton Speedy bags in primary colors, one of the first playful tweaks Mr. Williams is bringing to the company's heritage. The Speedy, one of Louis Vuitton's most recognizable designs, dates to 1930 and resembles a doctor's bag.
"I am a creative designer from the perspective of the consumer," he said. "I didn't go to Central Saint Martins. But I definitely went in the stores and purchased, and I know what I like."
He told Mr. Beccari something similar. "He said, 'I don't feel like a creative director here, I feel like a client,"' Mr. Beccari recalled, adding that he trusted Mr. Williams's natural instincts despite his never having managed a business of this scale. "I didn't even have to speak to him about the commercial importance of what he does and the importance in terms of turnover and volume of sales, but just the importance in terms of impact."
Mr. Williams looked at his Rihanna ads the way one might pose after a particularly athletic dunk. He pointed to one and said, "That's the golden ratio." For emphasis, he had an associate pull up the same image overlaid with the long golden spiral, the center of it landing directly on Rihanna's belly.
"What I love about this is, it's the biggest fashion house in the world, and that is a Black woman with child," Mr. Williams said.
Sarah Andelman, the founder of the pioneering Paris retailer Colette, and a collaborator of Mr. Williams's, said he makes creative choices "not just for the sake of doing things. There is a story and, I would say in French, profondeur, a meaning to what he will do."
Mr. Williams basked in the refracted shine from the screen full of Rihanna images.
"I know there's a game," he said. "I'm just not here to play it."
The Two-Decade Crash Course
Almost since the beginning of his career in music, Mr. Williams had found ways to incorporate, and create, fashion. In 2003, he founded Billionaire Boys Club with Nigo, perhaps his closest creative ally in style. Explaining the creative kinship between the two men, Nigo, through an interpreter, said, "The first time I went to Pharrell's house in Virginia, when I looked in the wardrobe, everything was the same as what I owned."
In 2003, Mr. Williams met Marc Jacobs, then the men's creative director of Vuitton, who invited him to collaborate on a pair of sunglasses. The result, known as the Millionaires, became a hip-hop luxury staple in the mid-2000s and an updated version of them is still sold today.
"He was just so incredibly generous to give me that opportunity when nobody had ever given any of us an opportunity to be creative," Mr. Williams said of Mr. Jacobs. (The Millionaires were designed by Mr. Williams, with Nigo.)
"I thought the way forward for Louis Vuitton was to collaborate with other creatives," Mr. Jacobs said. "It didn't matter to me whether they were from music or art or other fashion designers, whether it was Stephen Sprouse, Takashi Murakami or Pharrell."
Back then, when Mr. Williams arrived in Paris, Mr. Jacobs gave him vouchers to shop in the stores. "I was very nouveau riche at that time," Mr. Williams said, tilting his head down and offering just the tiniest hint of a knowing smirk. Mr. Williams also designed jewelry for Vuitton a few years later.
Other collaborations followed: Moncler, G-Star, Moynat, Reebok, a long partnership with Adidas and an almost decade-long affiliation with Chanel and Mr. Williams's close friend Karl Lagerfeld.
But none of those gigs had the complexity, or stakes, of his current assignment.
"Over the past several weeks he's had a crash course in design and how to run a studio and how to manage a team of 40, 50 people and how to take criticism and work with the people at the top because, you know, it's a blend of creativity and also running a business," said Matthew Henson, who has been a personal stylist for Mr. Williams for the last couple of years.
Mr. Henson is also styling the show, along with Cynthia Lu, Mr. Williams's former assistant who is now a quiet powerhouse of idiosyncratic streetwear with her brand Cactus Plant Flea Market.
When Mr. Williams walks through the studios, his awe for the specialized design teams appears genuine. "Presto, things get turned around so fast," he said. "I've had more resources than I've ever had in my entire life. They just don't miss. Like at all. None. Nobody."
That was something he was prepared for, in part, by conversations he had with Virgil Abloh, after Mr. Abloh was hired for this same job in 2018. In the three years at the helm of Vuitton's men's wear before his sudden death in late 2021, Mr. Abloh upended ideas about how a luxury house might function, and what story it might be able to tell in dialogue with those who had long been held at arm's length from luxury fashion. Just outside the atelier hangs the crucial, defining image from Mr. Abloh's first ad campaign for Louis Vuitton: a Black toddler draped in a "Wizard of Oz"-themed sweater, one of Mr. Abloh's first signature pieces.
Mr. Williams recalled Mr. Abloh's awe at the scale and efficiency of the atelier. "He would always talk about how they never say no, which they don't," he said. "So that's a responsibility not to abuse them."
Mr. Williams is now the second consecutive Black American in the role. "Over here, they lift us," he said. "They appreciate what we do. They see the talent that we have."
The Arnault family, he said, understands how crucial the Black American dollar and aesthetic has been to the growth and cachet of Louis Vuitton: "One hundred percent they know it," he said. "We've had some conversations about how important the community is to them, and how being supportive to them is a natural and a prerequisite."
He is looking to expand the house's brand ambassador program beyond the usual musicians and actors to Black academics, Black authors, a Black astrophysicist, even a Black bass fishing champion.
"They have to be supportive of the culture because the culture contributes to the bottom line," he said.
A New Humility
There are some things that Mr. Williams simply will not say. In public settings, at least, he speaks with the deliberateness of someone who wants no word to be misapprehended. His sunglasses stay on. ("I need something for myself," he said.) Rhetorically, he returns to familiar narratives and motifs -- the seismic changes in his life every 10 years, the eternal quest for learning, the continuing practice of gratitude.
"He never speaks the truth of himself, and I hate it," said Pusha T, who has known Mr. Williams for three decades. "It's my pet peeve about him. He knows he's great at things, but he wants that to walk him through the door versus him saying, 'Hey guys, come on. Let me through."'
Squint hard, though, and you may see the faintest flickers of the mid-2000s Pharrell Williams, a more boisterous and boasty person. A whiff of the old self popped out in a video Mr. Williams posted in late January, backstage at the Kenzo show with Nigo, when he knew he was on the verge of signing his contract. "You know what rhymes with 2023? Money money tree," he said into his phone camera, nodding intensely. He didn't lick his lips, but he might as well have.
When the appointment was announced, Tyler, the Creator, a longtime acolyte and style guru in his own right, FaceTimed Mr. Williams. "He just has this look he gives me where he kind of just goes like, 'Yeahhhh, I did that.' He didn't say anything," Tyler said. "And then he gave me the praying hands."
On his 2006 mixtape "In My Mind: The Prequel," a dizzying display of Dionysian ostentation, a peacock at the peak of his peacocking, Mr. Williams rapped, "We wanted this life, we salivated like wolves/ Blow a hundred grand on LV leather goods."
Mr. Williams almost flinched at the memory: "I was greeeeeasy on that."
Now, he said, "I promise you I really love being humble." But luxury fashion is not a business built on humility, and Mr. Williams is keen to make a splash.
The theme of his debut show, Mr. Williams said, will be "lovers." The first inklings of his vision emerged in April, at a Virginia festival that Mr. Williams organizes called Something in the Water, for which Vuitton made merch. It was received coolly.
Of potential negative criticism, Mr. Williams pleads equanimity. "I'm a student -- students learn," he said.
Mr. Henson said he didn't think Mr. Williams was expecting any "grace or favor" because of who he is. "He's expecting even more criticism and harsh critique," he said.
Mr. Williams shrugged. "It's not where my mind is, just because I think I err on the side of working with master artisans, and we're just literally working on the details," he said.
Staying Curious
An afternoon with Mr. Williams in creative director mode is a little bit like playing a first-person shooter. Requests pop in from unexpected directions, at erratic rhythms. Just when things get calm, someone emerges from around a corner with a mood board, or a vintage garment and a swatch of fabric it might be reimagined in. After being shown a hood with a novel but useful zipper, Mr. Williams nodded. "I don't want anything to be just for aesthetics," he said. "Everything has to have a real function."
For the second day in a row, he was wearing a Mickey Mouse T-shirt by Human Made, this time underneath a soft black leather biker jacket, and his flared jeans were in a Damier pattern.
A tailor brought out a mock-up of a double-breasted blazer for Mr. Williams to try on. One of the designers asked if he wanted "a very sartorial pocket" added to the design.
"Sartorial," Mr. Williams said. "Do you follow that guy on Instagram? The Sartorialist?"
For his first collection, he is leaning heavily on the checkerboard Damier print but reworking it in clever ways -- digital camo or, in Mr. Williams's parlance, "damouflage," and tweaking the colors away from the familiar browns and grays.
"Every season it's going to be a different colorway," he said, likening the playfulness to Takashi Murakami's neon monogram print during the Jacobs era. The soles of various shoes will be a modified Damier pattern. On a conference table were a pair of damoflage sweatsuits set aside for his parents ("My dad is a player," he said.)
Mr. Williams, who made waves in 2007 with his oversize purple crocodile Hermès Haut à courroies bag, is most tickled by the opportunity to innovate on the Speedy, which he is remaking in several primary colors, and also in an exaggerated, oversize silhouette. A yellow Speedy in meltingly soft leather sat on the pool table that serves as an impromptu work space in the atelier, almost slumping under its own very light weight.
"I want to give you that same experience that you get when you go to Canal Street, a place that has appropriated the house for decades, right?" Mr. Williams said. "Let's reverse it. Let's get inspired by the fact that they'll make some colorways that the house has never made. But then let's actually make it the finest of leather."
The day before, Mr. Williams had taken a moment to chat about designing a custom look for Naomi Campbell, including a zipped sports bra and zipped miniskirt, all in monogrammed leather ("'60s vibes, go-go"), and debating skirt lengths. "It'll work, but I don't know if it'll be as sexy," he said.
He also surveyed a pair of ship-shaped bag options, one steamer-like, one a bit shorter, and picked from various trim color and font options. "This seems to be the crispiest," he said, pointing to a white trim. He held one bag in each hand, then handed them to Nigo, who stomped off down the office in a mock model walk.
What Nigo did for Mr. Williams two decades ago, Mr. Williams is now doing for those who grew up admiring him.
"Me and him have a 20-year difference in age and man, what that does for me at my age is like, oh, it's still no ceilings," Tyler said. "To see someone at his age with his milestones, with his résumé, to not only still strive for a new world, stay curious, look for something new and something to challenge himself and let his creativity bleed into something else aside from just a drum pattern. And then actually get it. He not only strived for and did it, but actually nailed it -- it means so much to me."
Mr. Williams's new designs include printed leather jerseys and rugbys, quilted denim, Mao-neck blazers and ghillie camo with LV logo cutouts. He was excited to walk to the back of the studio, where the footwear designers work, and go over some eccentric ideas: Mary Janes and bowling shoes, a stone-encrusted snowboard boot, a design that initially scanned as a soccer sneaker but is actually a hard-bottom shoe. "I ain't even gonna lie," he said. "I was trying to do that at Adidas for years."
A little earlier, he was in front of his window, where he'd set up a small studio, and while fiddling with his Keystation 88 -- a keyboard and sound controller -- he asked his engineer to cue up a new song, tentatively called "Chains 'n Whips," that he was considering using as part of the show's soundtrack. Over a fusillade of psych-rock guitar flourishes, Pusha T rapped along to a pointed line in the chorus: "Beat the system with chains and whips!"
"That was made in this room," Mr. Williams said. "We just start walking around and looking out this window and you just see all of this. I mean, we beating this system, bro."
Photograph Pharrell Williams at the Louis Vuitton workshop in the days before his debut collection as men's creative director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HELLMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST10); From far left, Pharrell Williams with Marc Jacobs, and with Karl Lagerfeld. Below, with Virgil Abloh, a former artistic director at Louis Vuitton, in 2016. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BERTRAND RINDOFF PETROFF/GETTY IMAGES; SWAN GALLET/WWD, VIA GETTY IMAGES; AMY SUSSMAN/WWD, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (ST11) This article appeared in print on page ST10, ST11.

Subject: Men; Design; Appointments & personnel changes; Collaboration; Boys clubs; Fashion designers; Wealth

Business indexing term: Subject: Appointments & personnel changes Wealth

Location: United States--US; Virginia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/16/style/louis-vuitton-menswear-pharrell-williams-louis-vuittons.html

Title: Shaking Things Up From Inside the Castle:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 18, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826906674

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shaking-things-up-inside-castle/docview/2826906674/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As U.S.-China Ties Sour, Chinese Brands Seek Space From Beijing: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Swanson, Ana

Publication info: Swanson, Ana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-u-s-china-ties-sour-chinese-brands-seek-space/docview/2826049431/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Companies are moving headquarters and factories outside the country and cleaving off their Chinese businesses. It's not clear the strategy will work.
As it expanded internationally, Shein, the rapidly growing fast fashion app, progressively cut ties to its home country, China. It moved its headquarters to Singapore and de-registered its original company in Nanjing. It set up operations in Ireland and Indiana, and hired Washington lobbyists to highlight its U.S. expansion plans as it prepares for a potential initial public offering this year.
Yet the clothing retailer can't shake the focus on its ties with China. Along with other brands like the viral social app TikTok and shopping app Temu, Shein has become a target of American lawmakers in both parties. Politicians are accusing the company of making its clothes with fabric made with forced labor and calling it a tool of the Chinese Communist Party -- claims that Shein denies.
"No one should be fooled by Shein's efforts to cover its tracks," Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, wrote in a letter to other lawmakers this month.
As relations between the United States and China turn increasingly rocky, some of China's most entrepreneurial brands have taken steps to distance themselves from their home country. They have set up new factories and headquarters outside China to serve the United States and other foreign markets, emphasized their foreign ties and scrubbed any mention of "China" from their corporate websites.
TikTok has set up headquarters in Los Angeles and Singapore, and invested in new U.S. operations that it says will wall off its American user data from its parent company, ByteDance. Temu has established a headquarters in Boston, and its parent company, PDD Holdings, has moved its headquarters from China to Ireland.
Chinese solar companies have set up factories outside China to avoid U.S. tariffs on solar panels from China and limit their exposure to Xinjiang, a region that the United States now bars imports from because of its use of forced labor.
JinkoSolar, a behemoth that produces one in 10 solar modules installed globally, has set up a supply chain entirely outside China to make goods for the United States.
Other companies, including those that are foreign-owned, are building walls between their Chinese operations and their global businesses, judging that this is the best way to avoid running afoul of new restrictions or risks to their reputation.
Sequoia Capital, the venture capital firm, said last week that it would split its global business into three independent partnerships, spinning off unique entities for China and India.
Shein said in a statement that it was "a multinational company with diversified operations around the world and customers in 150 markets, and we make all business decisions with that in mind." The company said it had zero tolerance for forced labor, did not source cotton from Xinjiang and fully complied with all U.S. tax and trade laws.
A spokesperson for TikTok said that the Chinese Communist Party had neither direct nor indirect control of ByteDance or TikTok, and that ByteDance was a private, global company with offices around the world.
"Roughly 60 percent of ByteDance is owned by global institutional investors such as BlackRock and General Atlantic, and its C.E.O. resides in Singapore," said Brooke Oberwetter, a spokesperson.
Temu did not respond to requests for comment.
Analysts said companies were being driven out of China by a variety of motivations, including better access to foreign customers and an escape from the risk of a crackdown by the Chinese authorities.
Some companies have more practical concerns, like reducing their costs for labor and shipping, lowering their tax bills or shedding the shoddy reputation that American buyers continue to associate with goods made in China, said Shay Luo, a principal at the consulting firm Kearney who studies supply chains.
But a wave of tougher restrictions in the United States on doing business with China appears to be having an effect, too.
Research by Altana, a supply chain technology company, shows that since 2016, new regulations, customs enforcement actions and trade policies that hurt Chinese exports to the United States were followed by "adaptive behavior," like setting up new subsidiaries outside China, said Evan Smith, the company's chief executive.
For Chinese companies, going global is not a new phenomenon. The Chinese government initiated a "go out" policy at the turn of the century to encourage state-owned enterprises to invest abroad to gain overseas markets, natural resources and technology.
Private companies like the electronics firm Lenovo, the appliance maker Haier and the e-commerce giant Alibaba soon followed, seeking investment targets and new customers.
As tensions between the United States and China have risen in recent years, investment flows between the countries have slowed. U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods put in place by President Donald J. Trump and maintained by President Biden encouraged companies to move manufacturing from China to countries like Vietnam, Cambodia and Mexico. The pandemic, which halted factories in China and raised costs for moving goods across the ocean, accelerated the trend.
International companies are now increasingly adopting a "China plus one" model of securing an additional source of goods in another country in case of supply interruptions in China. Chinese companies, too, are following this practice, Ms. Luo said.
In the 12 months that ended in April, the share of imports to the United States from China reached its lowest level since 2006.
"It is definitely a rational strategy for these companies to offshore, to move manufacturing or their headquarters to a third country," said Roselyn Hsueh, an associate professor of political science at Temple University.
In addition to tariffs and the ban on products from the Xinjiang region, the United States has imposed new restrictions on trade in technology and tougher security reviews for Chinese investments.
The Chinese government, too, is clamping down on the transfer of data and currency outside the country, and it has squashed some Chinese companies' efforts to list their stocks on American exchanges because of such concerns.
Beijing has detained and harassed top tech executives, and foreign consulting firms. And its draconian lockdowns during the pandemic made clear to businesses that they operate in China at the mercy of the government.
"Companies like Shein and TikTok move overseas both to reduce their U.S. regulatory and reputational risk, but also to reduce the likelihood that their founders and staff get intimidated or arrested by Chinese officials," said Isaac Stone Fish, the chief executive of Strategy Risks, a consultant on corporate exposure to China.
But companies like Shein and Temu still source nearly all of their products from China, and it's not clear that the changes the Chinese companies are making to their businesses have done much to lower the heat.
The opposition to these companies in Washington is being fueled by an incendiary combination of legitimate concerns over national security and forced labor, and the political appeal of appearing tough on China. It also appears to be driven by the opposition of certain competitors to these services, which are now some of the most downloaded apps in the United States.
In March, a group called Shut Down Shein sprang up to pressure Congress to crack down on the retailer. The group, which has hired five lobbyists with the firm Actum, declined to disclose who is funding its campaign.
In a five-hour hearing in March, lawmakers grilled TikTok's chief executive over whether it would make U.S. user data available to the Chinese government, or censor the information broadcast to young Americans. Legislation is being considered that could permanently ban the app.
Some lawmakers are arguing that JinkoSolar's U.S.-made panels should not be eligible for government tax credits, and, for reasons that have not yet been disclosed, the company's Florida factory was raided by customs officials last month.
State governments, which have often been more welcoming to Chinese investment, are also growing more hostile. In January, Glenn Youngkin, the Republican governor of Virginia, blocked a deal for Ford Motor to set up a factory using technology from a Chinese battery maker, Contemporary Amperex Technology, calling it a "Trojan-horse relationship."
A House committee set up to examine economic and security competition with China is investigating the ties that Temu and Shein have with forced labor in China, and lawmakers are calling for Shein to be audited before its I.P.O.
"The message of our investigation of Shein, Temu, Adidas and Nike is clear: Either ensure your supply chains are clean -- no matter how difficult it is -- or get out of countries like China implicated in forced labor," Representative Mike Gallagher, the Republican chair of the committee, said in a statement.
An investigation by Bloomberg in November found that some of Shein's clothes were made with cotton grown in Xinjiang. In a statement, Shein said it had "built a four-step approach to ensure compliance" with the law, including a "code of conduct, independent audits, robust tracing technology and third-party testing.
Jordyn Holman contributed reporting from New York.
Jordyn Holman contributed reporting from New York.
Photograph A Shein pop-up store in Plano, Texas. Shein is among the Chinese companies trying to distance themselves from their home country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COOPER NEILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A7) This article appeared in print on page A1, A7.

Subject: Institutional investments; Legislators; Pandemics; Political parties; Tariffs; International trade; Supply chains; Forced labor; Lobbyists; Reputation management; Manufacturing; Congressional committees; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Institutional investments Tariffs International trade Supply chains Forced labor Reputation management Manufacturing Factories

Location: Ireland; Beijing China; New York; United States--US; Singapore; China; Florida

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940; Name: Bytedance Ltd; NAICS: 513210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/15/business/economy/china-business-tiktok-shein.html

Title: As U.S.-China Ties Sour, Chinese Brands Seek Space From Beijing:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826049431

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-u-s-china-ties-sour-chinese-brands-seek-space/docview/2826049431/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Ties to China Turn Toxic, Even Chinese Companies Are Breaking Them

Author: Swanson, Ana

Publication info: Swanson, Ana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-ties-china-turn-toxic-even-chinese-companies/docview/2825893816/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — As it expanded internationally, Shein, the rapidly growing fast fashion app, progressively cut ties to its home country, China. It moved its headquarters to Singapore and deregistered its original company in Nanjing. It set up operations in Ireland and Indiana, and hired Washington lobbyists to highlight its U.S. expansion plans as it prepares for a potential initial public offering this year.
Yet the clothing retailer can’t shake the focus on its ties with China. Along with other brands including the viral social app TikTok and shopping app Temu, Shein has become a target of U.S. lawmakers in both parties. Politicians are accusing the company of making its clothes with fabric made with forced labor and calling it a tool of the Chinese Communist Party — claims that Shein denies.
“No one should be fooled by Shein’s efforts to cover its tracks,” Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., wrote in a letter to other lawmakers this month.
As relations between the United States and China turn increasingly rocky, some of China’s most entrepreneurial brands have taken steps to distance themselves from their home country. They have set up new factories and headquarters outside China to serve the United States and other foreign markets, emphasized their foreign ties and scrubbed any mention of “China” from their corporate websites.
TikTok has set up headquarters in Los Angeles and Singapore, and invested in new U.S. operations that it says will wall off its U.S. user data from its parent company, ByteDance. Temu has established a headquarters in Boston, and its parent company, PDD Holdings, has moved its headquarters from China to Ireland.
Chinese solar companies have set up factories outside China to avoid U.S. tariffs on solar panels from China and limit their exposure to Xinjiang, a region that the United States now bars imports from because of its use of forced labor.
JinkoSolar, a behemoth that produces 1 in 10 solar modules installed globally, has set up a supply chain entirely outside China to make goods for the United States.
Other companies, including those that are foreign-owned, are building walls between their Chinese operations and their global businesses, judging that this is the best way to avoid running afoul of new restrictions or risks to their reputation.
Sequoia Capital, the venture capital firm, said last week that it would split its global business into three independent partnerships, spinning off unique entities for China and India.
Shein said in a statement that it was “a multinational company with diversified operations around the world and customers in 150 markets, and we make all business decisions with that in mind.” The company said it had zero tolerance for forced labor, did not source cotton from Xinjiang and fully complied with all U.S. tax and trade laws.
A spokesperson for TikTok said that the Chinese Communist Party had neither direct nor indirect control of ByteDance or TikTok, and that ByteDance was a private, global company with offices around the world.
“Roughly 60% of ByteDance is owned by global institutional investors such as BlackRock and General Atlantic, and its CEO resides in Singapore,” said Brooke Oberwetter, a spokesperson.
Temu did not respond to requests for comment.
Analysts said companies were being driven out of China by a variety of motivations, including better access to foreign customers and an escape from the risk of a crackdown by the Chinese authorities.
Some companies have more practical concerns, such as reducing their costs for labor and shipping, lowering their tax bills or shedding the shoddy reputation that American buyers continue to associate with goods made in China, said Shay Luo, a principal at the consulting firm Kearney who studies supply chains.
But a wave of tougher restrictions in the United States on doing business with China appears to be having an effect, too.
Research by Altana, a supply chain technology company, shows that since 2016, new regulations, customs enforcement actions and trade policies that hurt Chinese exports to the United States were followed by “adaptive behavior,” such as setting up new subsidiaries outside China, said Evan Smith, the company’s CEO.
For Chinese companies, going global is not a new phenomenon. The Chinese government initiated a “go out” policy at the turn of the century to encourage state-owned enterprises to invest abroad to gain overseas markets, natural resources and technology.
Private companies including electronics firm Lenovo, appliance maker Haier and e-commerce giant Alibaba soon followed, seeking investment targets and new customers.
As tensions between the United States and China have risen in recent years, investment flows between the countries have slowed. U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods put in place by President Donald Trump and maintained by President Joe Biden encouraged companies to move manufacturing from China to countries such as Vietnam, Cambodia and Mexico. The pandemic, which halted factories in China and raised costs for moving goods across the ocean, accelerated the trend.
International companies are now increasingly adopting a “China plus one” model of securing an additional source of goods in another country in case of supply interruptions in China. Chinese companies, too, are following this practice, Luo said.
In the 12 months that ended in April, the share of imports to the United States from China reached its lowest level since 2006.
“It is definitely a rational strategy for these companies to offshore, to move manufacturing or their headquarters to a third country,” said Roselyn Hsueh, an associate professor of political science at Temple University.
In addition to tariffs and the ban on products from the Xinjiang region, the United States has imposed new restrictions on trade in technology and tougher security reviews for Chinese investments.
The Chinese government, too, is clamping down on the transfer of data and currency outside the country, and it has squashed some Chinese companies’ efforts to list their stocks on U.S. exchanges because of such concerns.
Beijing has detained and harassed top tech executives, and foreign consulting firms. And its draconian lockdowns during the pandemic made clear to businesses that they operate in China at the mercy of the government.
“Companies like Shein and TikTok move overseas both to reduce their U.S. regulatory and reputational risk, but also to reduce the likelihood that their founders and staff get intimidated or arrested by Chinese officials,” said Isaac Stone Fish, the CEO of Strategy Risks, a consultant on corporate exposure to China.
But companies such as Shein and Temu still source nearly all of their products from China, and it’s not clear that the changes the Chinese companies are making to their businesses have done much to lower the heat.
The opposition to these companies in Washington is being fueled by an incendiary combination of legitimate concerns over national security and forced labor, and the political appeal of appearing tough on China. It also appears to be driven by the opposition of certain competitors to these services, which are now some of the most downloaded apps in the United States.
In March, a group called Shut Down Shein sprang up to pressure Congress to crack down on the retailer. The group, which has hired five lobbyists with the firm Actum, declined to disclose who is funding its campaign.
In a five-hour hearing in March, lawmakers grilled TikTok’s CEO over whether it would make U.S. user data available to the Chinese government, or censor the information broadcast to young Americans. Legislation is being considered that could permanently ban the app.
Some lawmakers are arguing that JinkoSolar’s U.S.-made panels should not be eligible for government tax credits, and, for reasons that have not yet been disclosed, the company’s Florida factory was raided by customs officials last month.
State governments, which have often been more welcoming to Chinese investment, are also growing more hostile. In January, Gov. Glenn Youngkin, R-Va., blocked a deal for Ford Motor to set up a factory using technology from a Chinese battery maker, Contemporary Amperex Technology, calling it a “Trojan-horse relationship.”
A House committee set up to examine economic and security competition with China is investigating the ties that Temu and Shein have with forced labor in China, and lawmakers are calling for Shein to be audited before its IPO.
“The message of our investigation of Shein, Temu, Adidas and Nike is clear: Either ensure your supply chains are clean — no matter how difficult it is — or get out of countries like China implicated in forced labor,” Rep. Mike Gallagher, R-Wis., chair of the committee, said in a statement.
An investigation by Bloomberg in November found that some of Shein’s clothes were made with cotton grown in Xinjiang. In a statement, Shein said it had “built a four-step approach to ensure compliance” with the law, including a “code of conduct, independent audits, robust tracing technology and third-party testing.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Institutional investments; Legislators; Pandemics; Political parties; Tariffs; International trade; Supply chains; Forced labor; Lobbyists; Reputation management; Manufacturing; Congressional committees; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Institutional investments Tariffs International trade Supply chains Forced labor Reputation management Manufacturing Factories

Location: Ireland; New York; United States--US; Singapore; China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Bytedance Ltd; NAICS: 513210, 518210; Name: Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: House Of Representatives; Senate; Florida; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Nanjing (China); Sequoia Capital; Supply Chain; Alibaba Group Holding Ltd; Initial Public Offerings; United States; Tax Shelters; Mobile Applications; Textiles; Plano (Tex); Communist Party Of China; International Trade And World Market; Shein (Fashion Label); Beijing Bytedance Technology Co Ltd; Corporations; Elections; Customs (Tariff); Chew, Shou Zi; Oceans And Seas; Politics And Government; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Nike Inc; Hiring And Promotion; Tax Cuts And Jobs Act (2017); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Outsourcing; Contemporary Amperex Technology Ltd; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Shopping And Retail; Ireland; Corporate Taxes; Layoffs And Job Reductions; United States Politics And Government; Texas; Xinjiang (China); Foreign Investments; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Entrepreneurship; International Relations; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Tiktok (Bytedance); Factories And Manufacturing; Polls And Public Opinion; Vietnam; New York State; Stocks And Bonds; Youngkin, Glenn A; Mexico; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Indiana; Rubio, Marco; United States International Relations; India; Virginia; Trump, Donald J; Blackrock Inc; Washington (Dc); Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Lenovo Group; Appointments And Executive Changes; Singapore; United States Economy; Adidas Ag; Cambodia; Forced Labor; Dress Codes; China; Cotton

Title: As Ties to China Turn Toxic, Even Chinese Companies Are Breaking Them

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 15, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-15T19:25:31Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language ofpublication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825893816

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-ties-china-turn-toxic-even-chinese-companies/docview/2825893816/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bud Light Loses Perch As Top Seller After Boycott: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bud-light-loses-perch-as-top-seller-after-boycott/docview/2825675326/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Bud Light lost its share of retail beer sales in recent weeks following a boycott by consumers over a promotional post by a transgender influencer.
Bud Light has been dethroned as the nation's top-selling beer in recent weeks, a data analytics company said, a sign that the backlash the brewer received from conservatives over its relationship with a transgender influencer may be taking a toll.
Taking its place in the No. 1 spot is Modelo Especial, a Mexican beer made by Constellation Brands, making up 8.4 percent of U.S. retail beer sales in the four weeks that ended June 3, according to Nielsen IQ data analyzed by the consulting firm Bump Williams. Sales of Bud Light fell to 7.3 percent in the same period.
The shift follows a conservative-led boycott against Bud Light that started after Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender influencer, posted a video on Instagram on April 1 promoting a Bud Light contest. Bud Light's share of retail sales has dropped about three percentage points since the boycott began.
Sales began to dip after commentators and celebrities on the right began to protest. Anheuser-Busch, the maker of Bud Light, later announced the departure of two marketing executives, but the company's attempt to backtrack drew further criticism, this time from liberals and members of the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
The controversy has spotlighted the challenges brands and retailers like Adidas and Target have faced in marketing to L.G.B.T.Q. consumers in a polarized political environment.
Anheuser-Busch did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
"Bud Light's missteps felt like a betrayal to both its liberal and conservative customers, and that trust is going to take months, if not years, to rebuild," said Daniel Korschun, an associate professor of marketing at Drexel University's LeBow College of Business.
Sales of Bud Light hovered around 10 percent of U.S. retail beer sales until the four weeks that ended on April 22, when it dropped to 8.7 percent, and have trended downward since. Modelo, Coors Light and Miller Lite each saw bumps in their share of the retail beer market in the same period.
Research has shown that the effects of boycotts are often short-lived. Bud Light has dominated the market for at least the past two decades, but in recent years it has faced tough competition, said Dave Williams, the vice president of analytics and insights at Bump Williams.
"I can't recall any other brand surpassing Bud Light in recent years, though brands such as Modelo Especial and Michelob Ultra have certainly been on an upward trajectory doing their best to narrow the gap between themselves and Bud Light," Mr. Williams said in an email.
Bud Light still has a stronghold over the American beer market. Based on year-to-date data, it is still the top-selling beer in the United States. It also sells more beer by volume than any other brand.
The data analyzed was only for off-premise sales, meaning it does not consider beer purchases from bars and restaurants.
Photograph Bud Light sales have fallen from 10 percent of the retail market to 7.3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Marketing; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Breweries

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/14/business/bud-light-lgbtq-backlash.html

Title: Bud Light Loses Perch As Top Seller After Boycott:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825675326

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bud-light-loses-perch-as-top-seller-after-boycott/docview/2825675326/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dressed to Kill, and Having a Weekend-Long Ball: [Style Desk]

Author: Wong, Wilson

Publication info: Wong, Wilson. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressed-kill-having-weekend-long-ball/docview/2825675310/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Neither a drop of rain nor a cloud of wildfire smoke could keep more than 100,000 fans from flocking to the Governors Ball Music Festival over the weekend at Flushing Meadows Corona Park in Queens.
Waves of revelers, festooned in rose-colored tutus, elaborately designed fishnets and oversize cowboy hats, filed into the event held this past Friday, Saturday and Sunday. They thrashed to Odesza and Diplo; bounced to Lizzo and Kendrick Lamar; and swayed to Haim and Omar Apollo across three different stages in the green fields encircling the iconic Unisphere, the 140-foot-tall ball fit for ... a ball.
On the first day of the festival -- enveloped by a gray haze, either from the Canadian wildfire smoke, the pyrotechnics, the cigarettes or some combination of all three -- music lovers, in between vape hits and beer sips, discussed their outfit inspirations and favorite performances.
Juliet Kingsley, 22
Lives in: New York City
How long have you lived in the city? I've only lived here for eight months. I'm originally from Charlottesville, Va.
What made you decide to move here? I wanted to make video games, and I feel like New York is such a hub for media. I want to make games for change, like for example, ones that teach you about the environment, or just bloodshed. It depends.
Your outfit is giving more romance than bloodshed. Are you currently in love? I am, but he doesn't know that yet!
Katie Sidari, 22
Lives in: Westchester, N.Y.
Let me guess, is pink your favorite color? Yes, I've always loved pink since I was a child, so I always try to incorporate it into my outfit.
Demii Eubanks, 31
Lives in: Ridgewood, Queens
What was your idea behind the safety pins? I was going for more like a dark anime moment, but then I started going crazy with the safety pins and then it turned into this.
What kind of anime character? One with a skirt.
Cody McNeeley, 30
Lives in: Williamsburg, Brooklyn
Talk to me about your outfit. I decided I was going to do a skirt day, so I found this little denim one and this random cow shirt from Buffalo Exchange, and I said, "I could be a country bumpkin!" The boots I already had and the hat I stole from when I used to work for this little mouse in Florida.
By little mouse in Florida, do you mean Disney? Yes, and you can tell them I said that!
Stassia Smith, 28, and Gabriella Johnson, 26
Lives in: New York City and Las Vegas
How did you coordinate the outfits?
S.S.: So I had this Skims dress, and I taught her about Skims. And now look at her. What does she have on? Skims.
Was the matching blond hair intentional too?
S.S.: No, she copied off me with the blond.
G.J.: Yeah, no, as you can tell, I'm the fashion one!
Miss Zarah Misdemeanor, 37
Lives in: Denver
Who is Miss Zarah Misdeameanor? She is a lovable, kind, relatable drag entertainer. When I get on the stage, I'm here to provide joy for my queer brothers, sisters and siblings.
Walk me through your outfit today. I'm wearing a smiley-face shirt because I'm all about smiles and happiness, like that's what I represent. My boots and hat are from Akira, but I wish I didn't say that, because that's like my drag secret.
Is Akira another drag queen? She's not a drag entertainer; she's a full-on store in Chicago. So now I can never go back and perform.
Ayden Deanda-Rivera, 19
Lives in: San Francisco
Are you in the city only for Gov Ball? Yes, I just arrived yesterday. This is actually my first time in New York City.
What has surprised you the most about the festival? The crowd is definitely more straight than I imagined.
Kayla Weinstein, 22, and William Napoleone, 22
Lives in: Westchester County, N.Y., and Norwalk, Conn.
How did you guys coordinate your looks?
W.N.: Her idea, obviously.
K.W.: I literally told him wear something pink, and I will do the rest. Our outfits are on a budget, and we came out with this.
What do you love most about each other?
K.W.: I would say, you know, like his sense of humor. And like, his smile -- it's so infectious.
W.N.: She's adorable. I mean, just look at her.
Olivier Bois, 21
Lives in: Quebec, Canada
Tell me about your outfit today. Everything you see here is thrifted. I just got these overalls in New York for about $ 5 and this '70s shirt for like $ 5.
Did you do your own makeup? Of course, I'm an aesthetician.
What do you love about your job? I love doing people's makeup and making people feel better about themselves. One day I'm going to do Lizzo's makeup -- I'm putting that into the universe!
Jamilah Ray, 28
Lives in: Mount Vernon, N.Y.
Who are you most excited to see tonight? Lizzo because she embodies a plus-size woman like me, and I just love everything that she stands for.
What are you wearing today? I have a top that is made by one of my friends in Florida: Swami by Nadhi. I have on my mini shorts for Lizzo tonight, and I'm rocking some Adidas shoes.
Is that Michael Kors bag real? Oh yes, baby!
Photograph Ryleigh Goodrich, left, and Anthony Ras during Diplo's set at the Governors Ball Music Festival in Flushing Meadows Corona Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D6.

Subject: Music festivals

Location: New York City New York; Florida; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/12/style/governors-ball-weather.html

Title: Dressed to Kill, and Having a Weekend-Long Ball:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 15, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals- -United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825675310

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressed-kill-having-weekend-long-ball/docview/2825675310/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Saudi Arabia Tries To Buy Prestige, And May Succeed: [Sports Desk]

Author: Smith, Rory

Publication info: Smith, Rory. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/saudi-arabia-tries-buy-prestige-may-succeed/docview/2824427161/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Soccer is the ultimate prize in Saudi Arabia's push in sports. Karim Benzema's signing offered a glimpse of the price tag. Lionel Messi's rejection showed its limits.
Two things stood out about Karim Benzema's arrival in Jeddah on Wednesday evening. The first was the look on his face. From the second his private jet touched down at King Abdulaziz International Airport to the moment -- an unspecified but apparently inordinate time later -- that he finally made it out into the Saudi Arabian night, Benzema looked distinctly baffled.
Perhaps it was just the effect of the long flight, or the lingering impact of what must have been a whirlwind few days, or the fact that people were talking to him in French, English, Spanish and Arabic, only three of which he actually speaks. His smile did not waver, but nor did the slight hint of confusion in his eyes.
It was there as he was hustled through the bright, echoing halls of the arrivals terminal, as he was seated in an ornate chair in some sort of conference room, fiddling with the yellow-and-black Al-Ittihad scarf that had been placed around his neck, as he was presented with two smiling, but wholly unidentified, children. Throughout, Benzema had the countenance of a man who had been recently startled.
More striking still, though, was that every single step of his journey was being documented. Not just by the cadre of official photographers and videographers -- from Al-Ittihad, from the Saudi Premier League, from various news agencies -- who were there to capture this transformative moment in both Saudi Arabian and global soccer, but by everyone who crossed his path.
Airport staff members were filming. Other passengers were filming. The children were filming. The various camera crews were filming one another, filming. These were not just devoted Al-Ittihad fans. It is a fair guess that some of them, at least, would not even consider themselves soccer fans. But no matter: Everyone still wanted their own little memento, their own footage of the moment Karim Benzema, the reigning Ballon d'Or winner, arrived in Jeddah.
That is the glamour he exudes, the spell he casts, the lure of his fame. And it is that, more than anything he does on the field, that Al-Ittihad will pay $ 400 million over three seasons to possess.
There are, broadly, two schools of thought on Saudi Arabia's rapid, aggressive and lavish expansion into sports over the last seven years or so.
One -- the one proffered by the Saudi authorities, and anyone who wants to find a justification for accepting the eye-watering salaries on offer -- is that sports is a way to diversify the country's economy away from oil, to encourage its citizens to be more active, to help build a more inclusive, more "modern" society.
The other, the one proclaimed by Saudi dissidents and by activist organizations both there and across the world, is perhaps best summed up by Lina al-Hathloul, whose sister, Loujaine, was arrested and sentenced to prison for advocating for Saudi women's right to drive. Sports, in this telling, is being used as a distraction, a sleight of hand, a trick of the light.
"I think the Saudi government, the Saudi regime and Mohammed bin Salman, he wants people to think of Ronaldo when they think about Saudi," she said, "and not about Khashoggi."
They are not, of course, mutually exclusive: The Saudi government almost certainly does want to divert attention away from its human rights record, but that does not mean it does not want its people to be more active.
Likewise, the kingdom is doubtless conscious of the value of providing entertainment and spectacle for its young, sports-obsessed population -- panem et circenses remains a powerful political motivation -- while simultaneously hoping it can leverage its investment in soccer, culminating in a bid for the 2030 World Cup, for international influence.
Whatever the motivation, the impact has been outsized. The first sport to fall under Saudi Arabia's thrall was, oddly, professional wrestling. Five years ago, the country's sports minister signed a deal with World Wrestling Entertainment to produce a number of co-sponsored shows for the next 10 years. The money from that arrangement, according to "Ringmaster," a fascinating biography of Vince McMahon, provides a considerable amount of W.W.E.'s operating budget.
Others happily followed the trail that sports entertainment -- and, if we are honest, what is not sports entertainment these days? -- first blazed. Saudi Arabia offers the richest purses in boxing. It is home to the most lucrative horse race on the planet. It has scooped up motor sports properties: Formula 1 races, MotoGP events and the World Rally Championship.
And then, of course, there is golf. No sport has been disrupted quite so much as golf by the sudden attention of the Public Investment Fund, which by bankrolling the insurgent LIV Golf series waged war on the more established P.G.A. Tour. This week brought an abrupt, unexpected cease-fire: After two years of bitter enmity, the two bodies would form an alliance, they revealed. It was presented, effectively, as a merger. It looked an awful lot like a takeover.
Soccer, though, remains the ultimate prize: Its unusual mix of wild, enduring popularity and entrenched, increasingly bananas tribalism makes it the surest vehicle imaginable for meeting all of the many and varied aims of the Saudi sporting project. But that also makes it the most treacherous ground.
Soccer is not, unlike Formula 1 and golf and professional wrestling, effectively a monopoly, where one omnipotent fief or suite of executives can make decisions for the entire sport. It is, instead, a Game of Thrones of competing power structures and individual interests. It is easy, too easy, to buy in to; it is impossible, when it comes down to it, to buy outright.
The Gulf monarchies that first set upon the sport as a way to achieve broader, geopolitical goals -- Qatar and Abu Dhabi, Saudi's neighbors and rivals -- decided that the most effective way to invest in soccer was essentially to buy a team as an avatar for the state.
Abu Dhabi transformed Manchester City not only into a Premier League and European powerhouse, but also a commercial, political, diplomatic and real estate venture. City is more than just a billboard for its emirate. It serves as the vanguard of many of its business interests, too.
Qatar picked up Paris St.-Germain, bankrolled the French league to ensure its team had some people to play against, and set about building what is best thought of as a monument to its own self-regard. It signed the best players in the world. It hired and fired the coaches who could not make them work together. It alienated the club's fans, again and again.
But none of that mattered, not only because it had its prestige property, but because it was simply the first step in a project that culminated -- or at least the first stage of it culminated -- with a P.S.G. player, Lionel Messi, clad in a bisht, lifting the World Cup in the great, golden bowl of Lusail last December.
Saudi Arabia has, of course, thrown its weight into that particular competitive space, too: The PIF owns a controlling stake in Newcastle United, the longstanding Premier League makeweight that will play in the Champions League next season for the first time in two decades.
But that approach is a volatile, uncertain one. There is no guarantee that Newcastle will be able to make the same smooth, exponential -- if not uncontroversial -- progress that Manchester City has these last few years. And even if it does, there is no guarantee it will make anyone popular. It does not quite work like that, as both Qatar and Abu Dhabi, to their chagrin, have found.
And while there can be no question that Saudi Arabia is a fervent soccer nation -- its hordes of fans at the World Cup bore witness to that -- it is fair to assume that the country's rulers have no real interest in sports in a literal sense. They are not spending all of that money to compete. They are spending it to win, and those are not the same thing at all.
The signing of the French striker Benzema, then, represents a significant departure. He will be, in all likelihood, the first of many European stars to land in Jeddah and Riyadh. The PIF now controls four clubs in the Saudi Premier League. Its intention is to stock each of them with three high-profile, high-quality players.
N'golo Kanté seems likely to be the next in line. Wilfried Zaha, or Roberto Firmino, or David De Gea may follow. Others will come soon enough: Saudi soccer authorities have drawn up a list of possible targets, based largely on when their contracts in Europe expire, for the next few years. Each of them will be handed a contract far beyond their expectations. Each of them will be offered a house of their choice, most likely in perpetuity.
The temptation is to see this as simply another version of the summer of 2016, when the Chinese Super League briefly threatened to upturn soccer's established order in a quixotic pursuit of sporting ambition. It is a comforting interpretation, at least for traditionalists: It marks the Saudi plan out as nothing more than a flash in the pan, a brief interlude that should be of no concern to the elite leagues of Europe.
That may, though, be a misreading. Increasingly, it is not clubs or leagues that move the needle, but players themselves. The one player Saudi Arabia has, thus far, failed to persuade is Lionel Messi. Given that he is an ambassador for the kingdom's tourism authority, his disinclination to accept a unfathomably rich offer to live there might reasonably be considered a blow. (Though Messi did, in choosing to commit his future to Major League Soccer, come up with a fine advertising slogan for the Saudis: "If it had been about money, I'd have gone to Arabia or somewhere." Put it on the posters.)
The offer that did convince him, from Inter Miami, was rooted in much the same logic. Messi, when he eventually signs, will not only be paid by the club, but he also is expected to be offered a discounted rate on an ownership stake in the M.L.S. team. Another part of the financial package will be provided by Apple, based on the logic that he will help sell a considerable number of streaming passes, and Adidas is expected to sweeten the deal, too.
Teams, of course, draw an audience. Competitions generate content. But, more than ever, it is players -- or, more specifically, a select group of players, whose fame outstrips even the clubs they represent and the trophies they win -- who command global attention, who move products, who are the greatest assets in the game. And the best thing, of course, is that players are one thing that money can absolutely buy. The industry of soccer, unlike the sport, is a game that is won, most of the time, by whoever has the deepest pockets.
Saudi Arabia has gone all in on that logic. It has committed nearly a billion dollars in salaries already, to no more than a handful of players. At first glance, it is hard not to be startled and dazed and, above all, baffled by the size of the numbers and the audacity of the approach. Such is the draw, the appeal, the power of the players, though, that it does not take too long before it starts to make sense.
The Fourth Wall
The line that connects the events in the parking garage and the airport terminal appears, on the surface, to be a pretty straight one. In the immediate aftermath of his Roma team's defeat to Sevilla in the Europa League final, José Mourinho spotted Anthony Taylor, the referee, on his way out of the Puskas Arena in Budapest.
Just in case anyone had been starting to wonder if maybe the Portuguese manager was not so bad after all, Mourinho -- an adult male human -- spat a volley of invective in Taylor's general direction, delivering a withering critique of his performance in the game in a convenient variety of languages, just to drive the message home.
A few hours later, as Taylor and his family walked through Budapest airport on their way back to England, they were greeted by what probably constituted a mob of Roma fans. They were jostled, jeered, abused, intimidated. The body that oversees refereeing in England described the scene as "unjustified and abhorrent."
Not without cause, the quick consensus had it that blame for the incident lay squarely at Mourinho's door. Urs Meier, a former referee, suggested that Mourinho should be banned from the game for a year for "throwing the referee at the fans." A chorus of various commentators fulminated that the fans had merely been following his lead.
One element, though, was conspicuous by its absence in all this analysis: the role of the news media itself. Far too frequently, managers choose to blame their disappointment on the supposed failings of referees. Far too often, they are presented with a microphone and encouraged to pass the buck for their failings on to the only person on the field who is not trying to gain whatever advantage they can at any given moment.
But it is no good pretending that all of that happens in a vacuum. Someone hands them the microphone. Plenty of people earnestly jot down their words, type them up, and then send them out into the ether completely unchallenged, regardless of their legitimacy or not.
Mourinho was, doubtless, to some extent responsible for what happened to Taylor in Budapest. He has rarely shirked an opportunity to make life essentially intolerable for referees during his career. But he is not alone in that, and until the news media dispenses with its absurd pretense that it is an observer, rather than an active participant, it is hard to see how anything changes.
Up Next? The Final
That's all for this week. Getting ready for the Champions League final? So are we. The Times will provide live coverage of Manchester City vs. Inter Milan on Saturday at nytimes.com.
Photograph As thousands took his picture at King Abdullah Sports City in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, Karim Benzema responded with a selfie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YASSER BAKHSH/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A25.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Soccer; Tender offers; Airports

Business indexing term: Subject: Tender offers Airports

Location: Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates; Saudi Arabia; Qatar; United Arab Emirates

People: Messi, Lionel; Benzema, Karim

Company / organization: Name: World Wrestling Entertainment; NAICS: 711310, 711320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/09/sports/soccer/lionel-messi-karim-benzema-saudi-arabia.html

Title: Saudi Arabia Tries To Buy Prestige, And May Succeed:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.25

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 11, 2023

column: The On Soccer Newsletter

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2824427161

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/saudi-arabia-tries-buy-prestige-may-succeed/docview/2824427161/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Galleries: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/galleries/docview/2823849793/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Takako Yamaguchi
Through June 17. Ortuzar Projects, 9 White Street, Manhattan; ortuzarprojects.com.
In her latest paintings, Takako Yamaguchi, who was born in Japan in 1952 and has lived in Los Angeles since 1978, continues to pit art against craft, East against West, and one style against another, creating works in which abstraction, representation and decoration mingle to unexpected effect. Previously, the artist roiled her multiple references into turbulent, Baroque compositions of disparate elements, variously representational, abstract and decorative. Figures from Diego Rivera or Lucas Cranach would mingle with the brocade patterns usual to Japanese kimono silks or the gold-leaf clouds of Japanese folding screens.
Now Yamaguchi has achieved a dazzling simplicity, absorbing her usual oppositions into seamless wholes. In these 60-by-40-inch canvases a series of horizontal bands all incorporate the abstract, representational and decorative. The dominant feature in all are pure white tubular elements, delicately shaded, whose repeating patterns serve as skies or as single, more symbolic forms. They can evoke the extensive vocabulary of braided, knotted and sometimes tasseled cords used in traditional kimono dressing or samurai armor; but they also suggest beautiful if unlikely cloud formations similar to those in the work of Georgia O'Keeffe and Agnes Pelton, as well as the Chicago Imagist Roger Brown. In "Hinge," the cloud formations seem braided. In "Clasp" strands of white encircle the red over blue seascape like a knotted belt, fancy frame or a porthole.
That Yamaguchi's exquisite compositions flip between textile flat and landscape deep with wit and clarity not usually found in Western modernism adds to the thrill. ROBERTA SMITH
Luc Tuymans
Through July 21. David Zwirner, 537 West 20th Street, Manhattan; davidzwirner.com.
How do you paint war: and, more to the point, why? In 1864, Édouard Manet painted an American Civil War battle off telegraphed news reports, and updated military painting for an age of mass media. Luc Tuymans has done something similarly important in "Bucha" (2023): a large, challenging, half-decipherable nighttime scene of what looks to be an open grave in the mortified Kyiv suburb of the title. Emergency lights illuminate a solitary worker, reduced to a white specter. Below is drab olive grass, above a heavy sky, but the floodlights have obscured the atrocity site, rendered in open smears of light gray and stifled blues and mauves. The horror fills maybe 95 percent of the canvas, but irregular pink edges suggest that this Bucha scene might be a photograph someone far from Ukraine is flicking past. To one side is a pale circle: a touchscreen's back button, a digital signpost back to barbarism.
Tuymans has always painted not the violence of war but its related mundanities: a pine tree in a concentration camp, Condoleezza Rice biting her lip. What "Bucha" confirms is that his diverted gaze was never just about Hitchcockian shock. His pinks and blues now blend into unbounded topographies that recall heat-mapping software, while his iPhone motifs, which had felt like a gimmick before, have matured into critical compositional tools. At the bottom of "The Barn," the diluted idyll that gives this show its name, he diminishes several other paintings on view to thumbnails in a Photos app carousel. Once Tuymans's muted compositions felt fatalistic; now they appear as committed assaults on our digital fragmentation and the lies that thrive in its cracks. JASON FARAGO
Eunnam Hong
Through June 18. Lubov, 5 East Broadway, Ste. 402, Manhattan; lubov.nyc.
In Krzysztof Kieslowski's film "The Double Life of Veronique," a Polish vocalist and her doppelgänger never meet, yet are linked by existential malaise and the nagging sensation of their lives being pulled in unseen directions.
Eunnam Hong's paintings share that film's eerie ennui and metaphysical intrigue, except Hong's doubles are intimately familiar. They mill around her spare New York apartment, ripping cigarettes and playing dice, dressed to go out but never getting there, like prisoners commiserating inside a magazine spread they can't escape.
Hong's previous life in fashion advertising, in Seoul, undoubtedly informs her own second act: She costumes her ringers in Adidas tracksuits and gray New Balances, bouncing sunlight off the worn creases of a biker jacket or combat boots or Belgian loafers; if nothing else, her pictures memorialize our moment's vogue for schizophrenic dressing. Also of the moment: No one seems to be having a good time. "Lunch Break" (2023), crowded with sumptuous folds of fabric, evokes Cecil Beaton's image of partygoers in Charles James gowns but with the joie drained out. Hong's women don't enjoy themselves; they're isolated, weighed down, in their own worlds.
The moodiness jibes with the recent yen for figurative painting luxuriating in indeterminate dread, but Hong's pictures are interesting enough to sustain our attention, their desaturated palette and soft precision amplifying a magnetic bleakness. Hong casts herself as her own model, her lanky form hidden under a wig of bottle-blonde ringlets and oversized glasses, as if artificially aged, or Anglicized, making literal the psychic splintering of assimilation, domestic anomie and interior life -- all the personas we perform for others, and ourselves. MAX LAKIN
Theodora Skipitares
Through June 18. 15 Orient, 12 Jefferson Street, Brooklyn; 15orient.com.
Puppets are not a premier medium in the art world, but the rise of performance art and exhibitions like Theodora Skipitares's "View From the Miniature City" -- as well as their inclusion in recent art histories -- might change that. Skipitares's show, drawn largely from her 1981 performance with puppets, "Micropolis: 6 Portraits and a Landscape," argues for the power of the form.
The exhibition itself is a marvel. Installed in the landlord's living quarters above the gallery, in dim rooms lined with vintage wallpaper, the show features mini-theaters holding Skipitares's tableaus populated by puppets the size of dolls. Dark, raunchy and ironic narratives, told in audio recordings, are accompanied at times by "brainy but bloodthirsty" (as one music writer described it) compositions by Virgil Moorefield. "Micropolis: Sylvia" (1981) stars a classic unreliable narrator: a "gifted" lady-puppet who meets with a surprising denouement. The dinosaur in "Micropolis: On the Road" (1981) nods simultaneously to the freedom envisioned by Jack Kerouac in his peripatetic 1957 novel "On the Road" and the impending "extinction" of bohemians in downtown New York.
The whole show is a reminder of the extraordinary density of talent -- real, not merely mythical -- in downtown New York in the '70s and '80s, which produced novel interdisciplinary forms. Much has changed, but the art dinosaurs of yore didn't go extinct; many are hiding in plain sight. How did a young gallerist discover this work? Easy: Skipitares, who is well known in the avant puppet-theater world, was his professor at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. MARTHA SCHWENDENER
Takako Yamaguchi's "Hinge" (2022) in her show "New Paintings." (PHOTOGRAPH VIA ORTUZAR PROJECTS); Eunnam Hong's "Lunch Break" (2023) in her show "Souvenirs," at Lubov. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA LUBOV) (C10); Luc Tuymans's "Bucha" (2023) in his show "The Barn." (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUC TUYMANS; VIA DAVID ZWIRNER); Theodora Skipitares's "Micropolis: Sylvia" (1981), in the show "View From the Miniature City." (PHOTOGRAPH BY THEODORA SKIPITARES; VIA 15 ORIENT) (C11) This article appeared in print on page C10, C11.

Subject: Art; Painting

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/arts/design/art-gallery-shows-to-see-right-now.html

Title: Galleries:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 9, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2823849793

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/galleries/docview/2823849793/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Major League Coup: [Sports Desk]

Author: Das, Andrew; Smith, Rory

Publication info: Das, Andrew; Smith, Rory. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/major-league-coup/docview/2823392940/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Days after he announced he would not return to Paris St.-Germain, Messi, Argentina's World Cup hero, said he planned his next stop to be Inter Miami of M.L.S.
Lionel Messi, who has captivated and to a large extent dominated global soccer for a generation, declared on Wednesday that the next stop in his glittering playing career would be the United States.
In an interview with two Spanish sports news outlets, Messi confirmed that he planned to sign a contract with Inter Miami, the M.L.S. team partially owned by David Beckham. He declined an offer to play in Saudi Arabia, which pays him to promote tourism in the kingdom and is seeking to build its national league by signing international stars.
"I made the decision that I am going to go to Miami," Messi told Sport and Mundo Deportivo. "I still haven't closed it 100 percent. I'm missing some things, but we decided to continue the path."
M.L.S. acknowledged Messi's decision in a statement, saying, "We look forward to welcoming one of the greatest soccer players of all time to our league," but noted no deal had been completed.
The finest player of his generation, and quite possibly the best of all time, Messi would arrive in M.L.S. having received every conceivable honor at the club and international levels: league titles in Spain and France; four Champions League trophies with Barcelona; and the Copa América and, last December, the World Cup with Argentina.
His status as the world's best player made him an extremely valuable prospect as his contract with his current employer, Paris St.-Germain, ran down. Miami was far from his only option: Messi, 35, eschewed both a putative return to Barcelona and a monumental offer, said to be worth as much as $ 500 million, to move to Saudi Arabia, which has set out to lure a dozen of the finest players on the planet to the Gulf this summer.
Should the deal be completed, it would be the biggest coup for M.L.S. since it lured Beckham in 2007, when he joined the Los Angeles Galaxy. That deal shifted perceptions of the league's quality and ambitions around the world; capturing Messi would, if anything, deliver even more attention to the league in the run-up to the 2026 World Cup, which will be hosted by the United States, Mexico and Canada.
Messi admitted, in his interview, that Miami had perhaps not been his first choice of destination. Speaking to outlets that dedicate much of their coverage to Barcelona, the club where he became the finest player of his generation, Messi made plain that in an ideal world, he would have returned to Catalonia. He "obviously really wanted to return," he said, and had discussed the idea with Xavi Hernández, the club's manager, and Joan Laporta, its president.
Ultimately, though, Barcelona's financial turmoil forced his hand. "I heard they had to sell players or lower salaries, and the truth is that I did not want to go through that," he said, suggesting that he did not want to be held responsible for forcing Barcelona to adjust its squad simply to accommodate him.
"I wanted to make my own decision, thinking about myself and my family," he said, describing a move away from Europe entirely as a chance to "look for something else, and find a little peace of mind."
After 20 years as one of the finest players on the planet and seven months after leading Argentina to the World Cup, the one trophy that had previously eluded him, he said he wanted to "get out of focus a bit, think about my family."
That led him to reject the chance to stay in Paris. He never truly settled into an attack featuring his fellow superstars Neymar and Kylian Mbappé, and his expected exit from P.S.G. was finally confirmed by the club on Saturday, hours before the team's final game of the season.
"I would like to thank the club, the city of Paris and its people for these two years," he said in a statement released by the club hours before he played, and lost, his final match with P.S.G. "I wish you all the best for the future."
The club reciprocated by sending its "warmest regards" and thanking Messi for his service, but P.S.G.'s fans were less sentimental: They booed his name in warm-ups, did the same during the game and continued to show their displeasure during a celebration for the club's latest French championship that followed.
Because he was out of contract, Messi's options were the talk of soccer. Would he find a way to return to the club that had made him, Barcelona? Would he take his game, and his family, to a new adventure in the United States? Or would his salary demands so limit his options that he would have little choice but to accept the almost unfathomable offer he received from the Saudi club Al Hilal?
Saudi Arabia's pitch was perhaps the most transactional: It could offer Messi a salary no other suitor could match, and he already had a relationship with the kingdom through a multimillion-dollar deal in which Messi had become a spokesman for the Saudi Tourism Authority.
"If it had been a question of money, I would have gone to Arabia or somewhere," Messi said. Instead, though, he insisted his decision had been made for reasons other than the purely economic.
Barcelona, on the other hand, offered familiarity and a return to the club and city he never wanted to leave. Messi departed Catalonia for Paris St.-Germain in 2021 only when Barcelona found itself caught in a financial vise and unable, under the rules of the Spanish league, to sign him to a new contract.
But while the lure of returning to a club that revered him was strong, Messi explained that he did not want to find himself at the mercy of La Liga's accountants. Though reports had emerged that Barcelona had struck a deal with La Liga to allow the club to complete his signature without breaking the competition's salary rules, he was not prepared to take that risk.
"The time I had to leave, La Liga had also accepted that the club would sign me, and in the end it couldn't be done," he said. "Well, I was afraid the same thing would happen again." He confirmed that his priority, in making his choice, had been the appeal of "not having to wait again."
That gave Miami its chance, but -- as was the case with previous stars -- there was still a need for M.L.S. to get creative. It, too, offered Messi a bit of comfort: He owns at least one home in Miami, and basing himself there -- and closer to Argentina -- will make it easier for him to cultivate rich, new sponsorship opportunities in a huge commercial market.
But a base in the United States would also have appealed to him for competitive reasons, potentially making it easier for Messi as he prepares to help Argentina defend its World Cup title in 2026.
To make the numbers work, Inter Miami's owners, which include Beckham, and Messi's representatives cobbled together a layered offer: a roster spot free from the limits of M.L.S. salary rules; an ownership stake in Inter Miami once his playing career ends; and revenue-sharing agreements with Apple and Adidas, two companies with which Messi has long and lucrative relationships.
Those deals would be linked to increased sales for Adidas, which had previously signed Messi to a lifetime sponsorship deal, and to increased subscription sales for the Apple TV+ streaming service. Apple, which this year acquired the rights to broadcast M.L.S. games on the service, on Tuesday announced that it also would produce a multipart documentary series about Messi.
Any first look at Messi on the streaming platform in an M.L.S. game, however, will have to wait until the contracts are signed, and until the league reaches the start of its midseason transfer window on July 5.
Photograph Over the past year, Lionel Messi has triumphed with Argentina in the World Cup, above left, and faltered with Paris St.-Germain, top. He remains larger than life in Buenos Aires, above right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIAN FINNEY/GETTY IMAGES; JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; LUIS ROBAYO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B7); Messi says he expects to play for Inter Miami at DRV PNK stadium in Fort Lauderdale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) This article appeared in print on page B7, B8.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Streaming media; Tourism; Soccer

Location: Argentina; United States--US; Saudi Arabia

People: Messi, Lionel

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/sports/soccer/lionel-messi-inter-miami-mls.html

Title: A Major League Coup:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2823392940

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/major-league-coup/docview/2823392940/se-2?accountid= 26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For This Runner, There Is No Shame in Bringing Up the Rear: [National Desk]

Author: Friedman, Danielle

Publication info: Friedman, Danielle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-runner-there-is-no-shame-bringing-up-rear/docview/2821781052/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Martinus Evans wants to make running more inclusive. His new book beckons back-of-the-packers to lace up.
On a recent Sunday morning jog through Prospect Park, Martinus Evans was received like a conquering champion. Every few minutes, a passing runner would smile and nod, congratulating him as they sped by.
But the runners weren't applauding him for winning any races. You might even say they were celebrating him for his track record of finishing last.
Mr. Evans is the founder of Slow AF Run Club, a virtual community for back-of-the-packers with more than 10,000 members worldwide. At 300 pounds, he is a beloved figure among runners who have felt left out of the sport. He's graced the cover of Runner's World, posed nude for Men's Health and appeared in an Adidas ad. His Instagram account, @300poundsandrunning, has around 62,000 followers. And this month, he's releasing his first book, "Slow AF Run Club: The Ultimate Guide for Anyone Who Wants to Run."
The idea for the club was born at about mile 16 of the 2018 New York City Marathon, just after the grueling Queensboro Bridge into Manhattan. Mr. Evans was cruising along when he noticed a man gesturing from the sidelines. He took out his AirPods.
"You're slow, buddy," the man shouted, adding an expletive to indicate just how slow. "Go home." Mr. Evans tried to ignore him, and turned his attention back to the course, which he eventually finished in just over eight hours, or six hours behind the winner. But as the bystander repeated his taunt, Mr. Evans got angrier -- then inspired.
The next time Mr. Evans, now 36, raced, he wore a shirt emblazoned with the man's phrase, SLOW AF, and a cartoon of a smiling turtle. When he shared photos of his new racing uniform on Instagram, followers asked for shirts of their own. By early 2019, a running club was born.
Mr. Evans, who lives in Brooklyn and is now a certified running coach, is helping lead a global movement to make the sport feel safe and welcoming for anyone who wants to run, whatever their size, pace, fitness level or skin color. He said his driving message is simple. "I want everyone to know that they can run in the body they have right now."
"Mr. Evans, you're fat."
Growing up on the east side of Detroit, the son of two auto factory workers, Mr. Evans, who is Black, didn't know anyone who ran for fun. Most people he knew thought of recreational running as a white person's activity.
As a boy, he was mocked for his size -- he was known in the neighborhood as "Marty the fat kid," he said. When he tried out for a youth football team, the coach made him wear a garbage bag on the field to "sweat out the fat," he said. He didn't lose weight; he just felt ashamed.
But after making his high school's football team, he began to develop confidence in his physical abilities. He attended Lane College in Tennessee on a football scholarship, before transferring to Central Michigan University, where he majored in exercise science. "I was like, maybe I'll finally learn how to work out and lose this weight," he said. "And then I can finally be accepted."
In 2012, Mr. Evans and his then girlfriend (now wife) moved to Connecticut, where she had gotten into graduate school. He took a job selling suits at Men's Wearhouse while he figured out his next move. The job, which required him to dress men of all ages and body types, would provide an unlikely path to becoming a fitness influencer.
After months on the storeroom floor wearing stiff dress shoes, he began to feel an ache in his hip. The pain brought him to an orthopedic surgeon, who, he writes in his book, took one look at him and told him: "Mr. Evans, you're fat. You have two options: Lose weight or die."
Mr. Evans remembered holding back tears while, "with a half-cocked smile," defiantly telling the doctor, "I'm going to run a marathon." He said the doctor laughed and told him running a marathon would also kill him.
He left the appointment angry and still in pain (another physician later diagnosed him with hip bursitis) and drove directly to a running store to buy a pair of trainers, determined to prove the doctor wrong. For extra motivation, Mr. Evans started a blog he called 300 Pounds and Running, where he began to chart both his running progress and weight loss. After a few months, he was surprised to discover strangers were reading and cheering him on.
He found that he enjoyed running, despite the passers-by who would occasionally hurl insults at him. More than once, Mr. Evans said he has also been stopped and questioned by police while jogging. When he felt defeated, he'd glance at a tattoo on his right wrist that reads "no struggle, no progress."
Eventually he ran a 5K, then a half marathon. Finally, in the fall of 2013, Mr. Evans flew home to run the Detroit Free Press Marathon and deliver on his vow in the doctor's office. When he crossed the finish line, he wept.
He has since gotten a master's degree in public health research and another in digital media and design. He said running offers him a sense of self-determination, confidence and purpose. And while it initially helped him lose about 90 pounds, dropping him below 300 for a time, he realized that running to lose weight took away from that satisfaction. "I wasn't 90 pounds happier," he said. He decided to stop counting calories and run just for fun.
He remembered that what made him a successful salesman at Men's Wearhouse was the ability to help customers feel good just as they were. He suspected other runners could benefit from focusing on the joy of the sport over weight loss. On his blog, he leaned into his persona as a 300-pound runner.
"No struggle, no progress."
Historically, the sport of running has made many people in big bodies feel like they have to lose weight to belong -- to be considered real runners, said Samantha White, an assistant professor of sport studies at Manhattanville College. By "amplifying runners who aren't focused on time, but rather on community," she said, Mr. Evans is creating a space "where recreational runners, especially Black recreational runners, can find a place."
As such, the first rule of Slow AF Run Club, which exists primarily on an app by the same name, is that members can't talk about their weight or weight loss.
"It is a judgment-free zone," said Jetaun Pope, 42, a high school algebra teacher in Chicago who is a longtime member and moderates the club's online discussions. "It feels good to feel like you're not alone," she said. "The more you see people in all bodies" being active, the more "it encourages you to take the first step."
The club's app is free to join; Mr. Evans earns a living through coaching sessions, merchandise sales and brand partnerships. He also works to persuade race directors to keep water stations and finish lines intact for back-of-the-pack runners, and athletic wear brands to include a wider range of sizes.
When counseling runners, Mr. Evans advises that, before even slipping on shoes, they should focus on retraining their brains to adopt the mind set that they can run, despite what a thin-obsessed, speed-focused culture might say. In his book he encourages them to neutralize their inner critic by naming it -- his is called Otis, which he imagines like an "ignorant, drunk uncle." Lastly, he tells runners to move forward however they can, even if it requires what he calls "delusional self-belief."
On a practical level, he recommends that people run 70 to 80 percent of the time at what he calls "sexy pace" -- "the pace you'd go if you were running in slow motion on a beach," Baywatch style -- or what most other coaches call a conversational speed. Starting out, he suggests running for 15 seconds and then walking for 90 seconds. Then over twelve weeks or so, progress to five minutes of running and one minute of walking.
"Starting gradual is great," said Anne Brady, a professor of kinesiology at the University of North Carolina-Greensboro. "It's all about consistency. So you have to start at something that you're able to sustain in a short bout." She also advised that larger people carefully select supportive, comfortable footwear to reduce impact on their joints.
More than a decade after he took up running, with eight marathons to his name, Mr. Evans is still 300 pounds. He's healthy by all of the usual metrics, though he doesn't measure his well being -- or success as a runner -- in numbers. He runs simply to be able to continue running, for himself and for others. The longer he shows up and runs slow AF, he said, the easier it becomes for other runners to do the same.
Danielle Friedman is a journalist in New York City and author of "Let's Get Physical: How Women Discovered Exercise and Reshaped the World."
Photograph Martinus Evans founded Slow AF Run Club, a virtual community with more than 10,000 members. (A1); MARTINUS EVANS, author and founder of a club for back-of-the-pack runners (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DESIREE RIOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12.

Subject: Running; Football; Coaches & managers; Marathons

Location: United States--US; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: Mens Wearhouse Inc; NAICS: 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/02/well/move/martinus-evans-slow-af-run-club.html

Title: For This Runner, There Is No Shame in Bringing Up the Rear:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821781052

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-runner-there-is-no-shame-bringing-up-rear/docview/2821781052/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

One Man’s Mission to Make Running Everyone’s Sport

Author: Friedman, Danielle

Publication info: Friedman, Danielle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-man-s-mission-make-running-everyone-sport/docview/2821710744/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — On a recent Sunday-morning jog through Prospect Park, Martinus Evans was received like a conquering champion. Every few minutes, a passing runner would smile and nod, congratulating him as they sped by.
But the runners weren’t applauding him for winning any races. You might even say they were celebrating him for his track record of finishing last.
Evans is the founder of Slow AF Run Club, a virtual community for back-of-the-packers with more than 10,000 members worldwide. At 300 pounds, he is a beloved figure among runners who have felt left out of the sport. He has graced the cover of Runner’s World, posed nude for Men’s Health and appeared in an Adidas ad. His Instagram account, @300poundsandrunning, has about 62,000 followers. And this month, he’s releasing his first book, “Slow AF Run Club: The Ultimate Guide for Anyone Who Wants to Run.”
The idea for the club was born at about mile 16 of the 2018 New York City Marathon, just after the grueling Queensboro Bridge into Manhattan. Evans was cruising along when he noticed a man gesturing from the sidelines. He took out his AirPods.
“You’re slow, buddy,” the man shouted, adding an expletive to indicate just how slow. “Go home.” Evans tried to ignore him, and turned his attention back to the course, which he eventually finished in just over eight hours, or six hours behind the winner. But as the bystander repeated his taunt, Evans got angrier — then inspired.
The next time Evans, now 36, raced, he wore a shirt emblazoned with the man’s phrase “SLOW AF” and a cartoon of a smiling turtle. When he shared photos of his new racing uniform on Instagram, followers asked for shirts of their own. By early 2019, a running club was born.
Evans, who lives in Brooklyn and is now a certified running coach, is helping lead a global movement to make the sport feel safe and welcoming for anyone who wants to run, whatever their size, pace, fitness level or skin color. He said his driving message is simple. “I want everyone to know that they can run in the body they have right now.”
‘Mr. Evans, you’re fat’
Growing up on the east side of Detroit, the son of two auto-factory workers, Evans, who is Black, didn’t know anyone who ran for fun. Most people he knew thought of recreational running as a white person’s activity.
As a boy, he was mocked for his size — he was known in the neighborhood as “Marty the fat kid,” he said. When he tried out for a youth football team, the coach made him wear a garbage bag on the field to “sweat out the fat,” he said. He didn’t lose weight; he just felt ashamed.
But after making his high school’s football team, he began to develop confidence in his physical abilities. He attended Lane College in Tennessee on a football scholarship, before transferring to Central Michigan University, where he majored in exercise science. “I was like, maybe I’ll finally learn how to work out and lose this weight,” he said. “And then I can finally be accepted.”
In 2012, Evans and his then-girlfriend (now wife) moved to Connecticut, where she had gotten into graduate school. He took a job selling suits at Men’s Wearhouse while he figured out his next move. The job, which required him to dress men of all ages and body types, would provide an unlikely path to becoming a fitness influencer.
After months on the storeroom floor wearing stiff dress shoes, he began to feel an ache in his hip. The pain brought him to an orthopedic surgeon, who, he writes in his book, took one look at him and told him: “Mr. Evans, you’re fat. You have two options: Lose weight or die.”
Evans remembered holding back tears while, “with a half-cocked smile,” defiantly telling the doctor, “I’m going to run a marathon.” He said the doctor laughed and told him running a marathon would also kill him.
He left the appointment angry and still in pain (another physician later diagnosed him with hip bursitis) and drove directly to a running store to buy a pair of trainers, determined to prove the doctor wrong. For extra motivation, Evans started a blog he called 300 Pounds and Running, where he began to chart both his running progress and weight loss. After a few months, he was surprised to discover strangers were reading and cheering him on.
He found that he enjoyed running, despite the passersby who would occasionally hurl insults at him. More than once, Evans said he has also been stopped and questioned by police while jogging. When he felt defeated, he’d glance at a tattoo on his right wrist that reads “No struggle, no progress.”
Eventually he ran a 5K, then a half-marathon. Finally, in the fall of 2013, Evans flew home to run the Detroit Free Press Marathon and deliver on his vow in the doctor’s office. When he crossed the finish line, he wept.
He has since gotten a master’s degree in public health research and another in digital media and design.
He said running offers him a sense of self-determination, confidence and purpose. And although it initially helped him lose about 90 pounds, dropping him below 300 for a time, he realized that running to lose weight took away from that satisfaction. “I wasn’t 90 pounds happier,” he said. He decided to stop counting calories and run just for fun.
He remembered that what made him a successful salesperson at Men’s Wearhouse was the ability to help customers feel good just as they were. He suspected other runners could benefit from focusing on the joy of the sport over weight loss. On his blog, he leaned into his persona as a 300-pound runner.
‘Delusional self-belief’
Historically, the sport of running has made many people in big bodies feel like they have to lose weight to belong — to be considered real runners, said Samantha White, an assistant professor of sport studies at Manhattanville College. By “amplifying runners who aren’t focused on time, but rather on community,” she said, Evans is creating a space “where recreational runners, especially Black recreational runners, can find a place.”
As such, the first rule of Slow AF Run Club, which exists primarily on an app by the same name, is that members can’t talk about their weight or weight loss.
“It is a judgment-free zone,” said Jetaun Pope, 42, a high school algebra teacher in Chicago who is a longtime member and moderates the club’s online discussions. “It feels good to feel like you’re not alone,” she said. “The more you see people in all bodies” being active, the more “it encourages you to take the first step.”
The club’s app is free to join; Evans earns a living through coaching sessions, merchandise sales and brand partnerships. He also works to persuade race directors to keep water stations and finish lines intact for back-of-the-pack runners, and athletic wear brands to include a wider range of sizes.
When counseling runners, Evans advises that, before even slipping on shoes, they should focus on retraining their brains to adopt the mindset that they can run, despite what a thin-obsessed, speed-focused culture might say. In his book, he encourages them to neutralize their inner critic by naming it — his is called Otis, which he imagines like an “ignorant, drunk uncle.” Finally, he tells runners to move forward however they can, even if it requires what he calls “delusional self-belief.”
On a practical level, he recommends that people run 70% to 80% of the time at what he calls “sexy pace” — “the pace you’d go if you were running in slow motion on a beach,” Baywatch style — or what most other coaches call a conversational speed. Starting out, he suggests running for 15 seconds and then walking for 90 seconds. Then, over 12 weeks or so, progress to five minutes of running and one minute of walking.
“Starting gradual is great,” said Anne Brady, a professor of kinesiology at the University of North Carolina-Greensboro. “It’s all about consistency. So, you have to start at something that you’re able to sustain in a short bout.” She also advised that larger people carefully select supportive, comfortable footwear to reduce impact on their joints.
More than a decade after he took up running, with eight marathons to his name, Evans is still 300 pounds. He’s healthy by all of the usual metrics, although he doesn’t measure his well-being — or success as a runner — in numbers. He runs simply to be able to continue running, for himself and for others. The longer he shows up and runs slow AF, he said, the easier it becomes for other runners to do the same.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Football; Running; Virtual communities; Coaches & managers; Marathons

Location: United States--US; Detroit Michigan

Identifier / keyword: United States; Football (College); Records And Achievements; Black People; Marathon Running; Names, Organizational; Adidas Ag; Memory; Books And Literature; Men's Wearhouse Inc; Blogs And Blogging (Internet); New York City; Men's Health; Coaches And Managers; Exercise; Lane College; Instagram Inc; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Manhattanville College; Prospect Park (Brooklyn, Ny); Manhattanville (Manhattan, Ny); North Carolina; Let's Get Physical:How Women Discovered Exercise And Reshaped The World (Book); Connecticut; Michigan; Scholarships And Fellowships; Advertising And Marketing; Weight; Detroit (Mich); Runner's World; Education (K 12); Polls And Public Opinion; Central Michigan University; Friedman, Danielle (Journalist); Detroit Free Press; University Of North Carolina; Labor And Jobs; Queensboro Bridge (Nyc); Football; Interscholastic Athletics; Happiness; Tennessee; Running; Colleges And Universities

Title: One Man’s Mission to Make Running Everyone’s Sport

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-02T21:03:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821710744

Document URL: https: //www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-man-s-mission-make-running-everyone-sport/docview/2821710744/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Adidas Sheds Yeezy Gear To Aid Anti-Hate Groups: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adidas-sheds-yeezy-gear-aid-anti-hate-groups/docview/2821251710/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The News
Adidas is going to start selling the first pairs of its leftover Yeezy sneakers, a step toward resolving a $ 1.3 billion inventory headache that has plagued the sportswear company since it severed ties with Kanye West, the rapper known as Ye, over a string of antisemitic remarks by the musician.
Adidas said a "significant amount" of the proceeds would go to groups and organizations representing people who had been hurt by Ye's remarks. The company had consulted with several of them in discussions leading up to the plan, Bjorn Gulden, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.
This solution "respects the created designs and produced shoes; it works for our people, resolves an inventory problem and will have a positive impact in our communities," said Mr. Gulden, who took the helm of Adidas in January. "There is no place in sport or society for hate of any kind and we remain committed to fighting against it."
Why It Matters: Adidas is trying to resolve a public relations problem.
The postings on Adidas's website of Yeezy Boost 350 V2 sneakers, in black and two-toned red and gray, selling for 200 euros a pair, or about $ 213, generated buzz over social media, reflecting the enduring popularity of the brand. The shoes go on sale Thursday.
Adidas said its decision to sever ties with Ye cost the company €1.2 billion in lost sales and about €500 million in profit this year.
Options for eliminating the inventory ranged from burning it to donating it to the needy. Mr. Gulden called figuring out what to do with the remaining stock "one of the most difficult decisions that I have been a part of."
But Yeezy shoes have been known to sell for up to $ 1,000 a pair and remain popular despite their association with Ye. So the company said it had made the decision in consultation with groups including Black Lives Matter and the Philonise & Keeta Floyd Institute for Social Change, which is run by Philonise Floyd, the brother of George Floyd.
Jonathan A. Greenblatt, chief executive of the Anti-Defamation League, which is among the groups that will benefit from the proceeds of the sale, welcomed Adidas's decision as one fitting the complexity of the problem.
"This is a thoughtful and caring resolution for the unsold merchandise," Mr. Greenblatt said.
But other groups noted that despite Adidas's pledge to donate the proceeds, Ye would still make money off the sales. Adidas has declined to comment on how much that would be, but Mr. Gulden previously said Ye still had a royalty contract that Adidas was obligated to honor.
"Adidas's willingness to donate the proceeds is highly commendable," said Josef Schuster, president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, but he added, "The fact that Kanye West would profit financially from the sale is highly problematic."
Background: The end of a hugely lucrative partnership.
The Yeezy brand became a defining force in the sportswear industry and an incredibly lucrative cornerstone for Adidas. The partnership between the rapper and the company, based in Germany, was hailed as the most successful sportswear collaboration since Michael Jordan teamed up with Nike.
But last fall, Ye's erratic behavior and comments targeting Blacks, Jews and others caused an uproar. Adidas came under pressure for failing to react, after other brands severed ties with the artist.
What's Next: More Yeezy styles may go up for sale.
Besides the two styles posted for sale, the website shows images of a dozen other models, suggesting that more could be announced in the coming weeks.
Adidas said it was considering further releases of the Yeezy inventory, but it did not give a timeline. Customers were asked to download an app and register for updates.
Yeezy shoes at a resale store. Adidas is unloading $ 1.3 billion in inventory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Athletic shoes; Corporate profits; Sport clothes; Inventory

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits Inventory

Location: Germany

People: West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/31/business/adidas-yeezy-kanye-west.html

Title: Adidas Sheds Yeezy Gear To Aid Anti-Hate Groups:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 1, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821251710

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adidas-sheds-yeezy-gear-aid-anti-hate-groups/docview/2821251710/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Professional Debut a Long Time in the Making: [Sports Desk]

Author: Blinder, Alan

Publication info: Blinder, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/professional-debut-long-time-making/docview/2820873828/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Zhang's career is likely to become a case study in athletic development, long-range planning and skillful marketing, now that college athletes are allowed to make money.
Not long before Rose Zhang clutched a microphone on Tuesday, Michelle Wie West laughingly made an observation: Zhang might have logged more weeks as the world's No. 1 amateur women's golfer than Wie West spent as an amateur, period.
It was an exaggeration -- even though Wie West became a professional at 15 years old and Zhang spent more than 140 weeks in the top spot -- but it also wryly underscored how Zhang's rise in women's golf is playing out differently from how other ascending stars built their careers.
In Zhang, who will make her professional debut this week at the Americas Open in Jersey City, N.J., women's golf is getting the rare prodigy who has played for an American college. And Zhang's career, however long it lasts and whatever victories it yields, is essentially certain to become a case study in athletic development, long-range planning and skillful marketing, especially now that college athletes are allowed to make money in ways that were forbidden as recently as two years ago.
"I believe that if you're not able to conquer one stage, then you won't be able to go on to the next one and say it's time for the next step," Zhang, 20, said on Tuesday. "So I wanted to see how I fared in college golf, and it turned out well."
To put it mildly.
Zhang's victory in April at the Augusta National Women's Amateur, where she posted a tournament-record score one day and broke it the next, let her complete women's amateur golf's version of the career Grand Slam since she had already won the U.S. Women's Amateur, the U.S. Girls' Junior and an individual N.C.A.A. title for Stanford.
Another Stanford golfer, Tiger Woods, achieved a similar feat in the 1990s. But this month, Zhang added a second individual championship in N.C.A.A. play.
Woods competed for Stanford in a wholly different time for college sports, a time when N.C.A.A. athletes were barred from selling their autographs or cutting endorsement deals. When Woods turned pro in 1996, the sponsorships promptly rained down on him. Zhang's timeline has moved even faster: Wednesday is the first anniversary of the announcement that Adidas had signed her.
The economic possibilities in college sports have lately enticed top athletes to pursue degrees and cultivate their talents while earning money and curbing the immediate allures of turning pro. Those possibilities had less of an effect on Zhang, who is from Irvine, Calif., and who chose to attend college before a wave of state laws pressured the N.C.A.A. to loosen its rules in 2021.
But they could help shape women's golf going forward, particularly if Zhang proves that the American college game is far from an athletic dead-end and that pre-prom professionalism is not the surest path to stardom. For some time, it has often seemed that way: Of the women ranked in the top 10 on Tuesday, only one, Lilia Vu, played N.C.A.A. golf (at U.C.L.A.).
Zhang, who plans to continue her Stanford studies but will no longer be eligible to play N.C.A.A. golf, believes that her stint on campus has hardly been time wasted. She said in April that her tenure as a college athlete had been "such an important stage for me" because she craved figuring "out who I really was and my independence."
She added: "It really allowed me to get my own space and really understand what I'm about, and that allows me to improve on my golf game because I realize that a profession is a profession but yourself is also something that you need to work on."
Her professional prospects had not been far from mind, though. She recalled Tuesday that she told her Stanford coach from the beginning that she was aiming to become a professional, even if her schedule for doing so was hazy.
In her first season at Stanford, she said, she did not consider professional golf at all. As her sophomore year progressed, she said, it "felt like it was time for the next stage."
"I feel like right now the mind-set is also very simple: try to adjust as much as possible to tour life and figure out what it means to be a professional, what I want to do out here," said Zhang, already adorned with the logos of Adidas, Callaway, Delta Air Lines and East West Bank. "I feel like I have a lot of time to experiment what I want to do, so that's kind of the mind-set that I have going throughout my career and even going forward."
Zhang is entering the professional ranks while women's golf has no shortage of elite players. Nelly Korda, the Olympic gold medalist from the Tokyo Games, has routinely lurked around the top of leaderboards. Lydia Ko, who in 2015 became the youngest person to reach the world's No. 1 ranking in professional golf, remains such a dependable power and brilliant player that she was the L.P.G.A.'s money leader in 2022. Minjee Lee has won a major in each of the last two years, and Jin Young Ko returned to the top of the women's golf ranking this month when she edged Lee in a playoff at the Founders Cup.
Zhang, though, may be the player facing the greatest public pressure since Wie West became a professional almost two decades ago. (Wie West will step back from competitive golf after this summer's U.S. Women's Open.) Zhang insisted Tuesday that she did not feel particularly vulnerable to expectations, which she tries to perceive as more of a compliment -- "They think I have the ability to go out there and win every single time" -- than a demand.
"Growing up, my family and the people around me have given me high expectations for what I should do as a person, not just as a competitor or a golf player, so I kind of fall back toward those morals and who I am as an individual," she said. "That allows me to go out there on the golf course and think: 'OK, today is another round of golf. I'm going to need to do what I need to do on the golf course. If it doesn't work out, I still have a lot of things going for me in life."'
After the inaugural Americas Open, which will be contested at Liberty National Golf Club, Zhang is expected to compete in the events that make up the rest of the year's majors circuit for women's golf. The Women's P.G.A. Championship will be played at Baltusrol in June, followed by the U.S. Women's Open at Pebble Beach in July, when the Evian Championship will also be held. The Women's British Open, scheduled for August at Walton Heath, rounds out the majors.
Zhang played in three majors last year, with her best finish a tie for 28th at the Women's British Open. (She did not enter this year's Chevron Championship, where she tied for 11th in 2020, and instead played for, and won, the Pac-12 Conference's individual championship.)
She does not, she said, have any short-term expectations for performance. This year is about finding her way -- and then letting the world watch to see if her way can work.
Photograph Rose Zhang at the Augusta National Women's Amateur. Her victory there let her complete women's amateur golf's version of the career Grand Slam. She plans to continue her studies at Stanford.; Zhang after winning the Augusta National Women's Amateur. Last year, she played in three majors on the pro tour. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES); From left, Nelly Korda, Lydia Ko, Jin Young Ko and Minjee Lee have been at the top of the professional ranks in women's golf. Zhang could soon provide them with more competition. "I wanted to see how I fared in college golf," said Zhang, a two-time champion in individual N.C.A.A. play, "and it turned out well." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE STOBE/GETTY IMAGES; SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B8.

ERIC Subject: Females; Laws; Careers

Subject: Tournaments & championships; College sports; Student athletes; Long term planning; Careers; Women; Professional golf; Case studies

Business indexing term: Subject: Long term planning Careers

Location: United States--US

People: Ko, Lydia

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Ath letic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/30/sports/golf/rose-zhang-lpga-stanford.html

Title: A Professional Debut a Long Time in the Making:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 31, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820873828

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/professional-debut-long-time-making/docview/2820873828/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 31, 202 3

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Stanford Golf Star Rose Zhang Is Ready for Her Professional Debut

Author: Blinder, Alan

Publication info: Blinder, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stanford-golf-star-rose-zhang-is-ready-her/docview/2820856164/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Not long before Rose Zhang clutched a microphone Tuesday, Michelle Wie West laughingly made an observation: Zhang might have logged more weeks as the world’s No. 1 amateur women’s golfer than Wie West spent as an amateur, period.
It was an exaggeration — even though Wie West became a professional at 15 years old and Zhang spent more than 140 weeks in the top spot — but it also wryly underscored how Zhang’s rise in women’s golf is playing out differently from how other ascending stars built their careers.
In Zhang, who will make her professional debut this week at the Americas Open in Jersey City, New Jersey, women’s golf is getting the rare prodigy who has played for an American college. And Zhang’s career, however long it lasts and whatever victories it yields, is essentially certain to become a case study in athletic development, long-range planning and skillful marketing, especially now that college athletes are allowed to make money in ways that were forbidden as recently as two years ago.
“I believe that if you’re not able to conquer one stage, then you won’t be able to go on to the next one and say it’s time for the next step,” Zhang, 20, said Tuesday. “So I wanted to see how I fared in college golf, and it turned out well.”
To put it mildly.
Zhang’s victory in April at the Augusta National Women’s Amateur, where she posted a tournament-record score one day and broke it the next, let her complete women’s amateur golf’s version of the career Grand Slam since she had already won the U.S. Women’s Amateur, the U.S. Girls’ Junior and an individual NCAA title for Stanford University.
Another Stanford golfer, Tiger Woods, achieved a similar feat in the 1990s. But this month, Zhang added a second individual championship in NCAA play.
Woods competed for Stanford in a wholly different time for college sports, a time when NCAA athletes were barred from selling their autographs or cutting endorsement deals. When Woods turned pro in 1996, the sponsorships promptly rained down on him. Zhang’s timeline has moved even faster: Wednesday is the anniversary of the announcement that Adidas had signed her.
The economic possibilities in college sports have lately enticed top athletes to pursue degrees and cultivate their talents while earning money and curbing the immediate allures of turning pro. Those possibilities had less of an effect on Zhang, who is from Irvine, California, and who chose to attend college before a wave of state laws pressured the NCAA to loosen its rules in 2021.
But they could help shape women’s golf going forward, particularly if Zhang proves that the American college game is far from an athletic dead-end and that pre-prom professionalism is not the surest path to stardom. For some time, it has often seemed that way: Of the women ranked in the top 10 on Tuesday, only one, Lilia Vu, played NCAA golf (at UCLA).
Zhang, who plans to continue her Stanford studies but will no longer be eligible to play NCAA golf, believes that her stint on campus has hardly been time wasted. She said in April that her tenure as a college athlete had been “such an important stage for me” because she craved figuring “out who I really was and my independence.”
She added: “It really allowed me to get my own space and really understand what I’m about, and that allows me to improve on my golf game because I realize that a profession is a profession but yourself is also something that you need to work on.”
Her professional prospects had not been far from mind, though. She recalled Tuesday that she told her Stanford coach from the beginning that she was aiming to become a professional, even if her schedule for doing so was hazy.
In her first season at Stanford, she said, she did not consider professional golf at all. As her sophomore year progressed, she said, it “felt like it was time for the next stage.”
“I feel like right now the mindset is also very simple: try to adjust as much as possible to tour life and figure out what it means to be a professional, what I want to do out here,” said Zhang, already adorned with the logos of Adidas, Callaway, Delta Air Lines and East West Bank. “I feel like I have a lot of time to experiment what I want to do, so that’s kind of the mindset that I have going throughout my career and even going forward.”
Zhang is entering the professional ranks while women’s golf has no shortage of elite players. Nelly Korda, the Olympic gold medalist from the Tokyo Games, has routinely lurked around the top of leader boards. Lydia Ko, who in 2015 became the youngest person to reach the world’s No. 1 ranking in professional golf, remains such a dependable power and brilliant player that she was the LPGA’s money leader in 2022. Minjee Lee has won a major in each of the past two years, and Jin Young Ko returned to the top of the women’s golf ranking this month when she edged Lee in a playoff at the Founders Cup.
Zhang, though, may be the player facing the greatest public pressure since Wie West became a professional almost two decades ago. (Wie West will step back from competitive golf after this summer’s U.S. Women’s Open.) Zhang insisted Tuesday that she did not feel particularly vulnerable to expectations, which she tries to perceive as more of a compliment — “They think I have the ability to go out there and win every single time” — than a demand.
“Growing up, my family and the people around me have given me high expectations for what I should do as a person, not just as a competitor or a golf player, so I kind of fall back toward those morals and who I am as an individual,” she said. “That allows me to go out there on the golf course and think: ‘OK, today is another round of golf. I’m going to need to do what I need to do on the golf course. If it doesn’t work out, I still have a lot of things going for me in life.’”
After the inaugural Americas Open, which will be contested at Liberty National Golf Club, Zhang is expected to compete in the events that make up the rest of the year’s majors circuit for women’s golf. The Women’s PGA Championship will be played at Baltusrol in Springfield, New Jersey, in June, followed by the U.S. Women’s Open at Pebble Beach, California, in July, when the Evian Championship in France will also be held. The Women’s British Open, scheduled for August at Walton Heath, rounds out the majors.
Zhang played in three majors last year, with her best finish a tie for 28th at the Women’s British Open. (She did not enter this year’s Chevron Championship, where she tied for 11th in 2020, and instead played for, and won, the Pac-12 Conference’s individual championship.)
She does not, she said, have any short-term expectations for performance. This year is about finding her way — and then letting the world watch to see if her way can work.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Athletes; College sports; Careers; Professional golf

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: California; New York; United States--US; New Jersey

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Augusta National Golf Club; NAICS: 713910

Identifier / keyword: Zhang, Rose (2003 ); University Of California, Los Angeles; College Athletics; Golf; University Of California; Student Athlete Compensation; Remy, Meg (Us Girls); Pacific 12 Conference; Jersey City (Nj); Adidas Ag; Ko, Lydia; Olympic Games (2020); Ko, Jin Young (1995 ); Pga Championship; Great Britain; Wie, Michelle; Blinder, Alan S; Women's British Open (Golf); United States; National Collegiate Athletic Assn; Sports; Woods, Tiger; Tennis; California; Advertising And Marketing; Augusta National Golf Club; Theater; New Jersey; Lee, Minjee (1996 ); Pebble Beach (Calif); Liberty National Golf Club (Jersey City, Nj); Ladies Professional Golf Assn; Professional Golfers Assn; Women's Pga Championship (Golf); Irvine (Calif); Seasons And Months; Chevron Corporation; Stanford University; Athletics And Sports; British Open (Golf); Korda, Nelly

Title: Stanford Golf Star Rose Zhang Is Ready for Her Professional Debut

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-30T23:03:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820856164

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stanford-golf-star-rose-zha ng-is-ready-her/docview/2820856164/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pride Month Presents Risk For Brands: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pride-month-presents-risk-brands/docview/2819183186/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Target became the latest company to adjust plans for marketing supportive of the L.G.B.T.Q. community after it faced backlash from some customers.
For years, Pride Month, the annual celebration for L.G.B.T.Q. Americans, has afforded companies a marketing opportunity to tap into the buying power of a group with growing financial, political and social clout.
Yet, while these efforts have always faced some opposition, brands and marketers say the country's current political environment -- especially around transgender issues -- has made this year's campaigns more complicated. This week Target became the latest company to rethink its approach after facing criticism for its Pride collection, which included clothes and books for children that drew outrage from some on the right.
The retailer moved its Pride displays -- including rainbow-striped collared shirts, yellow hoodies reading "Not a Phase" and baby clothing and accessories -- from the entrances of some Target stores around the country and placed them in the back.
Target said it was concerned "about threats impacting our team members' sense of safety and well-being while at work" after some customers had screamed at employees and thrown the Pride-themed merchandise on the floor.
Among the items angering some customers was a one-piece, tuck-friendly swimsuit -- a bathing suit that has extra material for the crotch area for individuals who want to conceal their genitalia. Some critics erroneously claimed that the swimsuit was being sold to children; Target said it was available only in adult sizes. The collection also includes children's books about transgender issues and gender fluidity.
One woman recorded a TikTok video in a Target store on Monday in which she became angry at seeing a greeting card that read "So Glad You Came Out" and a yellow onesie that said "¡Bien Proud!"
"If that doesn't give you a reason to boycott Target, I don't know what does," she said.
In a statement, a company spokeswoman said, "Given these volatile circumstances, we are making adjustments to our plans, including removing items that have been at the center of the most significant confrontational behavior." She added that the company, which has been selling Pride Month merchandise for a decade, remained committed to the L.G.B.T.Q. community "and standing with them as we celebrate Pride Month and throughout the year."
While Target said its decision had been made in the interest of employee safety, many said its actions -- along with a conservative backlash against Bud Light after it worked with a transgender influencer -- might alienate the community it was seeking to support. And those who criticized Target and Bud Light in the first place may now feel further emboldened to attack inclusive initiatives by other companies.
"We're in a new space here with safety and employee safety being threatened by policy and purpose," said Vanitha Swaminathan, professor of marketing at the University of Pittsburgh. "I can't say that you can disregard employee safety. That's very core to what a company has to do. At the same time, Target can still, from a policy standpoint, be supportive of their initial stance. It's sad to see that we've reached this point in our culture wars."
Marketing campaigns around Pride Month in June have become routine for many companies, with opposition cropping up at times. Last year, for instance, Pizza Hut faced calls for a boycott after it recommended "Big Wig," a book featuring drag performers, as part of its children's summer reading program.
Yet companies and marketers say the political climate makes this year different -- primarily because a number of Republican-led states have introduced and passed legislation restricting transition care for transgender minors and adults, and transgender rights has become a galvanizing issue for many conservatives.
GLAAD, the L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy group that works with more than 160 companies, is considering having communications professionals in its GLAAD Media Institute work with brands that are planning Pride Month celebrations so they can better respond to criticism.
"We do feel like we're at a moment where, with the politicization of trans and gender-nonconforming folks, that we probably need to assemble a Pride war room for brands so that we can push back," Sarah Kate Ellis, the group's chief executive, said in an interview.
On Thursday, GLAAD and six other advocacy groups called on Target to return to its stores and its website any Pride merchandise it had removed and to release a statement "in the next 24 hours reaffirming their commitment" to the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
When faced with criticism and social media calls for boycotts in the past, most companies learned that the declarations of outrage soon faded away.
Then Bud Light happened. Owned by the beer giant Anheuser-Busch, Bud Light continues to struggle with the fallout from a social media campaign in mid-March with the transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney. After calls for a boycott of the beer, sales in the four weeks ending in mid-May dropped more than 23 percent from a year earlier, according to data from the research firm NIQ and Bump Williams Consulting, which works with the alcoholic beverage industry.
In some markets in the South, such as Jacksonville, Fla., and New Orleans, Bud Light's sales were down 40 percent in those four weeks.
Anheuser-Busch, which in recent years has released rainbow-hued bottles and cans of Bud Light for Pride Month, did not respond to a question about its plans for this year.
Some marketing and communications consultants said the negative reaction to Bud Light's campaign with Ms. Mulvaney was a product of the beer's generally more politically conservative customer base. Companies like Nike or Starbucks can more easily create products or campaigns around gay and transgender issues or Pride Month because their consumers tend to be younger and more progressive, said David Johnson, the chief executive of Strategic Vision PR Group in Atlanta.
"When they embrace the gay or transgender community, it's not out of line with their core beliefs," he said.
A number of companies are moving forward with their Pride Month plans. In June, the Coors Light Denver Pride Parade will weave its way through the city. Advertisements for a one-piece Adidas swimsuit created by the South African queer designer Rich Mnisi feature a transgender man as the model. Levi's has a campaign showing a half-dozen gay and transgender people talking about how they show up while wearing the company's denim and tops.
But a number of other companies are being much less forthcoming about specific Pride Month plans. And some L.G.B.T.Q. advocates criticized Target for seeming to cave to pressure. (The company's decision did come as employees in the retail industry have faced increasingly aggressive behavior from customers since the start of the pandemic.)
Target also removed a Pride line from Abprallen, an L.G.B.T.Q. fashion and accessories company based in London, some of whose designs have been criticized for depicting satanic symbols like pentagrams and a shirt that reads "Satan respects pronouns." Abprallen did not respond to a request for comment.
"We'll find out in the next week which companies are continuing to make a push and do Pride Month campaigns," said Matt Skallerud, the president of Pink Media, which specializes in L.G.B.T.Q. online marketing. "If companies we know have been supportive of Pride Month don't show up this year, their absence will be noticed, and I'd be concerned that could harm them."
Advocacy groups are wary that all of this could create a chilling effect, especially when it comes to attaining a broader representation of L.G.B.T.Q. people in advertising.
"White gay men are the one segment that are most likely represented on our screens, whether it's programing or ads," said Lisette Arsuaga, co-founder of the Alliance for Inclusive and Multicultural Marketing. "We now started moving forward with a greater representation of all of the letters within the L.G.B.T.Q."
The overall consumer sentiment for seeing trans representation on TV and in advertising hasn't changed, according to recent GLAAD research. In a survey that was conducted in February, GLAAD said, 75 percent of people who did not identify as L.G.B.T.Q. were comfortable seeing those people represented in marketing campaigns. That figure held steady from 2020.
"You can absolutely roll out an ad campaign and include L.G.B.T.Q. folks in it," Ms. Ellis of GLAAD said. "And at the same time, there is this political right-wing arm that you have to be aware of when you're doing it and just be prepared for."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Childrens literature; Occupational safety; Marketing; Children & youth; Customers; Politics; Employees; Advocacy; Social networks; Transgender persons; Breweries; Advertising campaigns

Business indexing term: Subject: Occupational safety Marketing Customers Employees Social networks Breweries Advertising campaigns

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/25/business/target-pride-lgbtq-companies-backlash.html

Title: Pride Month Presents Risk For Brands:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819183186

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pride-month-presents-risk-brands/docview/2819183186/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Their Cautionary Tales for Morant on Guns: [Sports Desk]

Author: Sopan Deb

Publication info: Sopan Deb. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/their-cautionary-tales-morant-on-guns/docview/2816255269/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Gilbert Arenas's N.B.A. career never recovered after he brought guns into a locker room. Now he's puzzled by the gun troubles of Morant, the star Memphis Grizzlies guard.
Gilbert Arenas figured it was an old video. There was no way, he thought, Ja Morant could have done the same thing so soon after his mea culpa. Not with all that was at stake.
"Once I realized it was a new one, there was nothing else to say," Arenas, the former Washington Wizards star, said, adding: "The fact that you keep wanting to do the things you're doing, then you must want to see how invincible you think you are."
Morant, a 23-year-old Memphis Grizzlies guard, is facing criticism for the second time in just over two months for a social media video that appeared to show him playfully but recklessly waving around a gun in public. The N.B.A. verified the first video, in March, but is still investigating the second, which went viral last weekend. Morant apologized Tuesday.
Arenas, 41, can relate to Morant's turmoil better than almost anyone. In the 2009-10 season, the N.B.A. suspended him for 50 games for bringing guns into his team's locker room and mocking the situation by making finger gun gestures at a game while the league was still investigating. Arenas, who had made three All-Star teams by then, said he got in trouble in a space where he felt comfortable -- perhaps too comfortable.
"It's different for me because I am not getting in trouble in my everyday life," Arenas said. "I'm getting in trouble at my workplace. The invisible cloud that I thought I had was removed."
Morant's trouble has played out on social media, where he has millions of followers, and with much more at stake for his career and for the N.B.A. His otherworldly athleticism has made him a nightly highlight reel with legions of fans who have made his jersey one of the league's best sellers. Morant released his first signature shoe with Nike this year, and was leading a new advertising campaign for Powerade. He was poised to be one of the young stars the N.B.A. relies on to carry the league forward after LeBron James and Stephen Curry retire. Now all of that is in jeopardy.
Two videos. Two apologies, each with Morant vowing to be better.
N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver suspended Morant for eight games after the first video, and said in an interview on ESPN on Tuesday that he was "shocked" when he saw the second. It's unclear whether Morant broke any laws, but Silver, as he did in March, can suspend him for conduct deemed detrimental to the league. The Grizzlies, who were eliminated from the playoffs last month, have suspended Morant from team activities indefinitely.
"He's not only done a disservice to himself, but to the franchise," said Larry Parnell, the director of the strategic public relations program at George Washington University. "And I think people take that more personally than they do politicians or actors who misbehave."
He explained why: "If you're a celebrity and you make movies and I don't like what you're doing, I'm not emotionally attached to your movie, but I'm emotionally attached to the Celtics. I'm emotionally attached to the Grizzlies."
Arenas said that his situation contrasted with Morant's because he was more aware that he was a public figure and acted accordingly, such as by not wearing flashy jewelry in public to avoid being robbed. "I understood I am not normal," Arenas said.
Nevertheless, Arenas's gun incident overshadowed the rest of his N.B.A. career, which lasted only two more seasons, in part because of injuries. He was seen as immature.
"I think it affected -- I don't even want to say legacy -- my name," said Arenas, who co-hosts the "Gil's Arena" show for Underdog Fantasy. "It affected it really bad. I said it back then, where the most disappointing part of it all is I did 100 things right. I did one wrong thing and that's all everyone remembers. That's what really hurts you the most."
There have been other cautionary tales about star athletes and guns. Plaxico Burress accidentally shot himself in 2008 at a nightclub in Manhattan less than year after catching the game-winning touchdown for the Giants in the Super Bowl. He spent nearly two years in prison, and his career never recovered. In March, he was asked about Morant in an interview on "The Carton Show."
"If I was speaking to him, it would just be, 'If you can't learn anything, learn from me,"' Burress said. "Just make better decisions because you really don't want for him to have that label moving forward, being that he's so young. He has the opportunity to be the face of the N.B.A. He's that great of a player and you want to continue to see him, you know, mature as a person as his game is getting better."
Negative reputations can be hard to shake, and the reactions to Morant's behavior have been mixed. JJ Redick, the ESPN analyst and former N.B.A. player, has argued, like many others, that Morant shouldn't face harsh punishment if he hasn't broken the law. Charles Barkley, the TNT analyst and former N.B.A. player, has teed off on Morant, saying that the rules are different for public figures. Nike did not respond to a request for comment, but Morant's shoes no longer come up in searches for his name at nike.com. A spokesperson for Powerade said the company had "no update" about Morant's contract.
Arenas lost his shoe deal with Adidas because of his gun incident. He also pleaded guilty to one count of felony gun possession and was sentenced to 30 days in a halfway house. That was more than a decade ago, but Arenas has become the go-to voice when athletes are in trouble. Still, in November, the Wizards honored him with a framed jersey at halftime of a game on "Throwback Night."
"We all throw out the word: 'Be accountable for your actions,"' Arenas said. "But do we actually allow that person to really be accountable? When we see: 'OK, he never touched a gun ever again. He's never showed that same behavior to want to be around guns. Never looked at a gun.' Why would you keep reminding the world that that's what he did?
"We want the person to change their behavior, but we don't want to accept it when they do."
Photograph Ja Morant has appeared to be waving a gun on social media twice in less than two months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY A. VASQUEZ/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS)

Subject: Social networks; Firearm accidents & safety

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

People: Arenas, Gilbert

Company / organization: Name: Memphis Grizzlies; NAICS: 711211; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/19/sports/basketball/ja-morant-gilbert-arenas.html

Title: Their Cautionary Tales for Morant on Guns:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.27

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2816255269

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/their-cautionary-tales-morant-on-guns/docview/2816255269/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sprinter's Hometown Mourns Sudden Death: [Sports Desk]

Author: Minsberg, Talya

Publication info: Minsberg, Talya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sprinters-hometown-mourns-sudden-death/docview/2813477794/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mourners at a visitation and funeral in Mississippi remembered Tori Bowie as an inspiration on the track while also searching for answers about how her life ended.
BRANDON, Miss. -- Before she became a three-time Olympic medalist and before she earned the title of world's fastest woman, Frentorish Bowie welcomed a camera crew to her hometown, Sandhill, Miss.
"This is where I found my strength," Bowie, who went by Tori, said of the small town 30 minutes northeast of Jackson.
It was 2016, and at age 26 Bowie was about to make her Olympic debut as part of the U.S. sprinting team at the Rio de Janeiro Games. But first she stopped at Pisgah High School to visit teachers and staff and found herself wiping away happy tears. She loved being home.
"One day I hope that I can come to Sandhill and there's this huge sign that says, 'Welcome to Sandhill, home of Tori Bowie,"' she said.
On Saturday, the community that took such pride in Bowie was struggling for answers as it gathered for her funeral and mourned her recent unexplained death. She was 32.
Her body was found on May 2 by Orange County, Fla., sheriff's deputies, who were conducting a wellness check after she had not been seen or heard from in several days.
Bowie had been pregnant, but it was unclear whether she carried to term before she died. A program provided at the funeral service on Saturday said that Bowie was "preceded in death" by a daughter, Ariana Bowie. An official at the Orange County medical examiner's office on Saturday who declined to give her name confirmed a "baby Bowie," but she declined to provide further details.
No cause of death has been released because toxicology tests are pending, and the office said the tests could take up to three months to complete.
Bowie's final years appeared to be as much a mystery as her death. Fellow track athletes who once trained or competed with her said she had grown distant in recent years. Many didn't know her off the track at all. She struggled with anxiety and paranoia, said her longtime agent, Kimberly N. Holland, adding that Bowie became more introverted.
At Saturday's memorial service at True Vine Baptist Church in Brandon, Miss., a crowd of mourners tried to put aside their questions and focus on Bowie's athletic achievements, her faith and her effervescent moments.
But a sense of shock still permeated the room as tributes were shared. Even the Rev. Sylvester London, who officiated the service and gave the eulogy, described his disbelief when he learned of Bowie's death from a news alert. "I was shocked, shocked," London said. "Then I started to pray."
Bowie's path to track and field fame began in Sandhill almost by accident. She wanted to play basketball at Pisgah High School, but the school required interested students to compete in track, too, because it was too small to field separate teams for both sports. Bowie reluctantly agreed, even though she much preferred long basketball shorts to the shorter bottoms given to track athletes.
Without a track to call their own, the Pisgah Dragons practiced by running around a grassy field. They went on to win three state championship titles, with Bowie competing in the 100 meters, 200 meters, 4x100-meter relay and long jump.
Still, Bowie's first love was basketball. When she was recruited by the University of Southern Mississippi, she turned the tables. She would do track and field if she could try to walk on to the basketball team, she said. They came to an agreement.
"What stood out to me is that she was really tall and lanky," said Sonya Varnell, a longtime athletic administrator at the University of Southern Mississippi. "Most sprinters got a lot of muscle on them, and she was tall and thin like a basketball player."
Varnell was drawn to Bowie, whom she described as a hard worker who was humble and unassuming. Varnell was also raised by her grandmother, grew up in the same county as Bowie and had also been a first-generation student-athlete. "She came from nothing," Varnell said, "just like me." She added, "I don't think she realized how good she was or how good she could be."
Her greatest potential initially seemed to be in field events. Holland, who signed Bowie in January 2013, said in an interview that she knew she had signed "the next one." Bowie was being groomed as a long jumper, but showed promise in the sprints, though Holland described Bowie's initial form as looking like "she was running from a Rottweiler."
When Al Joyner, a 1984 Olympic gold medalist in the triple jump, met Bowie in 2013, he too saw the elite potential. He compared her to his late wife, the Olympic champion Florence Griffith Joyner, and his sister, the Olympic champion Jackie Joyner-Kersee. She could surpass their records, he told her.
"I told her she's going to be the next great one," Joyner said. "And that was in 2014. I'll never forget the day she beat Allyson Felix. She told me, 'Al, you were right."'
Holland's response toward Bowie's influx of attention? "Welcome to the party."
At the Rio de Janeiro Olympics, Bowie earned a silver medal in the 100 meters, a bronze in the 200 meters and a gold in the 4x100-meter relay on a team that included Felix.
In 2017, she won a world championship, earning the title of fastest woman in the world after a dramatic 100-meter race that she won by one-hundredth of a second by leaning her head forward across the finish line.
Ever the fierce competitor, after that finish, she approached Holland, whom she affectionately called Ms. Kim. "I need a new coach," Bowie said, Holland recalled, despite the monumental win. "The race was too close."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Bowie's dreams expanded. She wanted to get into modeling and was interested in working with fashion brands, and in 2018 she did both. She was featured in a Valentino campaign and a Stella McCartney-Adidas collaboration. She walked in New York Fashion Week. She was photographed by Annie Leibovitz for Vogue and was featured in ESPN's Body Issue.
She wanted to use her fame for good, her friend Antoine Preudhomme said. When she was a toddler, Bowie and her sister, Tamarra, who is 11 months older, were handed over to the foster care system by their birth mother, Bowie once told reporters. Their paternal grandmother, Bobbie Louise Smith, gained legal guardianship and raised them.
Bowie wanted to show up for foster children, Preudhomme said. Together, the pair would visit foster homes across Florida and Mississippi three to four times a year to deliver Christmas gifts and occasionally challenge children to foot races.
Tanyeka Anderson, a program director at the Mississippi foster care provider Apelah, remembers a 2019 visit from Bowie. She said: "For a person of her magnitude to come help? To come give back to our children? That's a very special thing."
She said Bowie gave a party for the children that included dancing, and stayed for more than four hours. "She was very vibrant, very happy," Anderson said.
But then something shifted. Bowie was always private, friends and former coaches said. In the past few years, Bowie lost touch with many of the people who had been a part of her athletic rise.
Varnell and Joyner found their texts and calls unanswered and unreturned. Varnell hoped she was busy. Joyner hoped she was training for the next big thing, perhaps a comeback after her 2019 appearance at the world championships, where she placed fourth in the long jump. Bowie's Instagram page, which had been fairly active, was last updated in October 2019.
"She even backed away from me," Holland said. "But she always found her way back because of the bond we had."
She last raced in a 200-meter event at a sprint series in Montverde, Fla., in July 2022. Bowie attended Full Sail University in Winter Park, Fla., in the fall of 2022 until her death, her family obituary said.
A few weeks before Bowie died, she and Holland talked on the phone for the last time. "I can't even put the words into how much joy came across the phone," Holland said. "She giggled like an innocent child."
"It was the old Tori again," she added. Bowie told Holland that she was pregnant, and agreed to come to Atlanta. Holland wanted to help raise the baby. "She was excited, she was so excited," Holland said.
During visitation on Friday, many mourners heard Bowie's voice again for the first time in years, smiling as they watched her races and interviews being played on a television above Bowie's coffin.
Her infectious laugh reverberated around the room as some shook their heads in apparent disbelief.
"When I'm back in Sandhill," Bowie said in a 2016 video, "I feel free."
The funeral procession on Saturday followed Bowie back toward Sandhill for her burial. The cemetery is not far from a sign that was installed in 2018. It reads: "Welcome to the Community of Sandhill, Home of Olympic Gold Medalist Tori Bowie."
Photograph Tori Bowie was a threetime Olympic medalist and the world's fastest woman. At the Rio de Janeiro Olympics, she earned silver in the 100 meters, bronze in the 200 meters and gold in the 4x100-meter relay (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID J. PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS; SUSAN BROADBRIDGE/THE HATTIESBURG AMERICAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); True Vine Missionary Baptist Church, left, where loved ones gathered for Bowie's funeral. In 2016, Bowie said, "One day I hope that I can come to Sandhill and there's this huge sign that says, 'Welcome to Sandhill, home of Tori Bowie." The sign, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA GAUNTT/CLARION LEDGER/THE CLARION-LEDGER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; TALYA MINSBERG) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Foster care; Track & field; Deaths; High school basketball

Location: Brazil; United States--US; Rio de Janeiro Brazil; Mississippi

Company / organization: Name: University of Southern Mississippi; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/13/sports/olympics/tori-bowie-death-funeral.html

Title: Sprinter's Hometown Mourns Sudden Death:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 15, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813477794

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sprinters-hometown-mourns-sudden-death/docview/2813477794/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2812299733/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
I.R.S. Moving to Protect Identities of Its Workers
In an effort to deter threats aimed at Internal Revenue Service employees, the agency said Thursday that it would start limiting workers' personal identifying information on communications with taxpayers. The Treasury Department's inspector general for tax administration said in a report this week that it was "concerned that taxpayers and anti-government or anti-tax groups with malevolent intent may use the Internet or social media to track down and identify IRS employees, their families, their homes, and personal information to threaten, intimidate, or locate them for physical violence." The decision comes after President Biden last year included $ 80 billion in funding for tax collection efforts. Since then, misinformation has spread online, including by Republican lawmakers, that 87,000 armed agents authorized to use deadly force were going to crack down on taxpayers of all earnings levels. ASSOCIATED PRESS
APPAREL
Adidas to Sell Yeezy Shoes And Donate the Proceeds
After months wrestling over the fate of millions of unsold Yeezy shoes, Adidas said Thursday that it would sell a portion of its remaining inventory and donate the proceeds to charitable organizations. The German sportsware company cut ties with Ye, the rapper formerly known as Kanye West, in late October, after his antisemitic comments on social media and in interviews. Since then, the fate of 1.2 billion euros, or $ 1.3 billion, worth of the unsold Yeezys, a lucrative sneaker line launched with Ye, has been up in the air. At Adidas' annual shareholders meeting, the chief executive, Bjorn Gulden, said the company spoke to nongovernmental organization and groups that were harmed by Ye's comments and actions. "Burning those shoes cannot be the solution," Gulden said, adding that Adidas will try to sell part of the remaining Yeezy inventory and "donate money to the organizations that help us and were harmed by what Ye said." ASSOCIATED PRESS
ACTIVIST INVESTORS
With Stake in Goodyear, Elliott to Push for Changes
The activist investing firm Elliott Investment Management disclosed a large investment in Goodyear on Thursday and said it wanted the company to strengthen its financial position by refreshing the board, selling its stores and conducting an operational review. Elliott holds a 10 percent stake in the 125-year-old company, making it one of Goodyear's biggest investors. The investment firm, which manages $ 55 billion in assets, is proposing that five new directors join the 12-member board. Goodyear can use proceeds from selling stores to pay down debt, improve its balance sheet and financial flexibility, Elliott said in a letter to the board. All of Elliott's proposed changes could boost Goodyear's stock price about $ 21 to the low- $ 30 range, it said. On Thursday afternoon, the stock jumped 19 percent to $ 14.05. Over the last five years, the stock has fallen 47 percent. REUTERS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Investments; Shareholder meetings; Social networks; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Shareholder meetings Social networks Equity stake

Company / organization: Name: Internal Revenue Service--IRS; NAICS: 921130; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/10/business/12bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 12, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2812299733

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2812299733/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

H&M Makes Collaborations Work: [Style Desk]

Author: Testa, Jessica

Publication info: Testa, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/h-amp-m-makes-collaborations-work/docview/2811808147/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: How consumers became obsessed with fashion collaborations, courtesy of the Swedish mall staple.
The year is 2015. The Supreme Court has ruled in favor of same-sex marriage. Negotiations are about to begin on the Paris Climate Accords. Mainstream pop culture is essentially "Hamilton," "Hotline Bling" and true crime docuseries. And Olivier Rousteing is at the H&M store on the Champs-Élysées, where he is starting to feel the pressure of the pandemonium outside. A policeman, he recalled, told him it was unsafe and he should leave.
Mr. Rousteing, the creative director of the French luxury brand Balmain, was making an in-store appearance for the debut of his collaboration with H&M. Just about every year since 2004, the mega-retailer has released at least one collection in partnership with a luxury fashion designer.
Much has changed in fashion in the past 20 years: the power players, the priorities of consumers, the trends and the platforms that amplify those trends. At least one thing hasn't: the frenzy around H&M's high-end designer collaborations.
Modern shopping has been shaped by this frenzy; collaborations have infested the landscape of fashion, from low to high. Just ask anyone swept up in the mess of Yeezy Gap in 2020 or Louis Vuitton and Supreme in 2017, or who has indulged in Dior Birkenstocks or an Hermès Apple Watch. Arguably, it all began with H&M.
Several of H&M's limited-edition collections have sold out within hours. Thousands have lined up outside its stores, sometimes overnight, including resellers looking to flip the sold-out pieces on eBay.
When Balmain's collaboration was released, one shopper in London described the scene as "dangerous" because of all the jostling. But for many fans of Mr. Rousteing, this was their first chance to buy his work -- to dress in the curve-hugging metallics of the "Balmain Army," whose generals have included Beyoncé, Rihanna and Kim Kardashian.
Balmain's dresses typically cost more than $ 1,000, but at H&M, thanks to cheaper materials and production processes, a plunging sequined minidress that seemed to contour the body like celebrities of the era contoured their faces was $ 199. A velvet blazer with strong shoulders and intricate pearl-like embellishments was $ 549, as opposed to $ 3,000; a cotton T-shirt with Balmain's logo was $ 34.99, not $ 395. The ad campaign was shot on a fake subway car, as if to emphasize that this collection was made for people who rode public transportation.
In a recent interview with The New York Times, Mr. Rousteing called the collaboration one of the "top three chapters" of his career. It was a validation to him, he said, proof of his appeal with the public, even to critics who may not have appreciated the young designer's aesthetic.
"It changed my positioning in the fashion industry," said Mr. Rousteing, then 30. "I was still 'the kid' in fashion at the time, and sometimes the press has been really tough on me. When they saw that the clients responded in such a humongous way, I think people started to realize that it was just not fireworks. My clothes, my vision, works."
On Thursday, another designer will take a turn at this right of passage: Casey Cadwallader of Mugler, who has devoted much of his H&M collection to resurrecting archival designs, simplifying Mugler's existing designs, or to making the sexy-alien aesthetic slightly more wearable. (Nipples may get three more centimeters of fabric coverage, for example.) In some cases, he replicated his "greatest hits" almost exactly, only using H&M fabrics and mass-production methods, as with a two-tone cropped denim jacket, priced by Mugler around $ 1,000 and by H&M at $ 299.
"Fashion is here to make people happy," Mr. Cadwallader said. "The more people that the work can reach and make happy, the happier I am."
Karl Did It First
When Karl Lagerfeld became the first designer to collaborate with H&M in 2004, people were in shock, said Shawn Grain Carter, an associate professor of fashion business management at the Fashion Institute of Technology. "Remember, that was the death knell for Halston, when he did a collaboration with J.C. Penney," she said. Because of the collaboration, she noted, Bergdorf Goodman stopped selling Halston.
At the time (1983), the concept of mixing "high" and "low" was not yet in vogue. But at the start of the 21st century, it came to define fashion. The first lady shopped at J. Crew. Bloggers infiltrated the editorial elite, and emerging social media platforms gave rise to new style stars. Before all that, though, the designer Isaac Mizrahi made a splashy debut at Target in 2003. The next year, Mr. Lagerfeld brought his sleek collection to H&M.
According to H&M lore, Mr. Lagerfeld immediately said yes after being approached by Donald Schneider, who later became H&M's artistic director. They knew each other already; Mr. Schneider had worked at French Vogue.
Mr. Lagerfeld's participation signaled to other designers that they could follow suit. The next H&M collaborator was Stella McCartney, who was followed by a wide range of names. For every designer who went in the direction of streetwear (Moschino) and sport (Alexander Wang), others were inspired by deconstruction (Maison Martin Margiela) and the avant-garde (Comme des Garçons).
Ann-Sofie Johansson, the creative adviser at H&M, said the best-selling collaborations have generally been the "more glamorous" ones, versus conceptual collections, like Roberto Cavalli and Balmain.
"I think every designer is a little bit worried," said Ms. Johansson, who has been with H&M for 35 years. "We all always tell them, there's going to be a long queue, you don't have to worry." The designer Alber Elbaz was so concerned that he pulled up in a limousine outside the Fifth Avenue store to spy on the line for his Lanvin collaboration in 2010. He then took selfies and chatted with customers, Ms. Johansson said.
From the designer's perspective, the upsides are clear: H&M offers intense exposure, including press coverage and a robust marketing budget. Prince and Nicki Minaj performed at a party celebrating Versace's collaboration in 2011. Sofia Coppola directed a commercial for Marni's collection in 2012, as did Baz Luhrmann for Erdem in 2017.
It can also be personally lucrative for them. The Times has reported that Stella McCartney and Mr. Lagerfeld were each paid $ 1 million for their collaborations. "And in many cases, beyond that, there's some sort of a royalty or a revenue share on top," said Marc Beckman, whose advertising firm DMA United has brokered fashion collaborations involving Gucci, LeSportsac and the N.B.A. H&M declined to comment on its financial agreements with designers.
Yet some designers, such as Rick Owens, have spoken out against working with fast-fashion companies, citing concerns over waste and disposability -- an image H&M has spent years toiling to shed.
Here, the designers provide an upside to H&M: a "halo effect," Mr. Beckman said.
"Some people will stay interested in the environmental concerns, regardless of these top-tier types of aspirational collaborations," he said. "But a lot of people will look the other way so that they can get a piece of luxury."
Democratization or Dilution?
A decade ago, Jessica Y. Flores waited in line overnight for H&M's Versace collaboration at a store in Midtown Manhattan. She sat on the sidewalk, she said, recalling that it was so cold outside that people took turns warming up inside a nearby pharmacy.
She was there because she'd grown up admiring Versace. "But I am someone who was a first-generation American, and I come from a working-class family," said Ms. Flores, now 36. "Buying high-end luxury to wear was not something that was available to me. I heard about this collection, and I was like: 'Oh, I can buy this."'
Afterward, she posted a video of her haul to her new YouTube channel. Today, she calls herself the "collaboration collection girl of YouTube," having tracked 11 years of explosive growth in the mass-market collaboration landscape. She has made vlogs about buying bags from Fendace, sneakers from Nike and Tiffany and clothes from Target's collections with Victoria Beckham and many more. (She has not received free or discounted clothes from these brands but has occasionally produced sponsored content for other companies.) (While Target's collaboration program has continued since Mr. Mizrahi's days, the company's focus has turned increasingly to emerging designers rather than luxury brands.)
Ms. Flores has seen how collaborations have gone from mass-market efforts at democratization -- a term used by most people interviewed for this story -- to in-house drops led by high-end brands. When Gucci and Balenciaga collaborated with Adidas, for example, the pieces were sold on the luxury brands' platforms and at their prices: $ 850 for a pair of logo-covered Gazelles or pre-worn-down Stan Smiths.
Lately she has noticed some negative comments about the accessibility of Mugler's collaboration. "One of the phrases that keeps coming up, over and over again, is that 'It'll cheapen the brand,"' she said. Complicating matters is Mugler's decision to offer some near-replicas of its core pieces.
"If the silhouette is so similar to the runway collection that you can't distinguish why you would offer it at such a low price point, you are very close to the line," Ms. Grain Carter said -- the line being "the dilution of the brand."
Quality and craftsmanship are what traditionally set low-end and high-end fashion apart. So what happens when H&M sells pieces that closely resemble the high-end versions, and made with more expensive materials than its regular lines?
"I was very much expecting the cheap substitute for every fabric that we normally use," Mr. Cadwallader said of the development process with H&M. But in many cases, he said, the company was using materials similar to his. "It really looks like the real thing."
Still, Ms. Flores is not convinced the "cheapening" conversation she has seen online is anything more than elitism. "Some people do not want the everyday person to have access to the things that they have access to," she said.
As for Thursday, she doesn't know whether she'll try to shop the collaboration. Her favored H&M store in Queens closed last year. And the designs are a little too revealing and body-conscious for her current tastes.
But many signs point to another swift clearing out of every last pair of sheer leggings and all the corset hoodies. Because, as Mr. Beckman said, "H&M just dominates this."
Photograph One item in Donatella Versace's collaboration collection with H&M at Pier 57. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1); Left, the Balmain introduction at the H&M store at Oxford Circus in London in 2015. Above, Donatella Versace with Nicki Minaj, who performed at the introduction of the Versace H&M collaboration at Pier 57 in New York in 2011. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB STOTHARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Clockwise from top left: Karl Lagerfeld clothes at H&M on Fifth Avenue in 2004; H&M collaboration items; previewing an H&M-Mugler collaboration in April; and a Balmain-H&M collaboration illustration. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA ALPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MATTEO PRANDONI/BFA VIA H&M) (D5) This article appeared in print on page D1, D5.

Subject: Fashion; Design; Collaboration; Logos; Democratization; Trends; Fashion designers; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Social networks

People: McCartney, Stella

Company / organization: Name: Balmain; NAICS: 541490; Name: Gianni Versace SpA; NAICS: 315250, 334519

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/11/style/fast-fashion-h-and-m-why-are-all-those-people-outside-hm-again.html

Title: H & M Makes Collaborations Work:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 11, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811808147

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/h-amp-m-makes-collaborations-work/docview/2811808147/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Like Michael Jackson and Prince, 'They Command the Crowd': [Sports Desk]

Author: Sopan Deb

Publication info: Sopan Deb. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/like-michael-jackson-prince-they-command-crowd/docview/2810282534/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tim Hardaway knows stars when he sees them. Hardaway, a Hall of Fame point guard, battled against his share of them, including Michael Jordan, during a 14-year N.B.A. career.
So when he sees Stephen Curry and LeBron James encountering each other yet again in the N.B.A. playoffs, only one comparison comes to mind.
"Michael Jackson and Prince," Hardaway said. "You must see that. That's how big of a star they are. They command the crowd."
James, with the Los Angeles Lakers, and Curry, with the Golden State Warriors, have the attention of the basketball world in the Western Conference semifinals. It's not the biggest stage, like when they faced off in four straight N.B.A. finals from 2015 to 2018, as James played for Cleveland. But in the N.B.A., any stage they are on is the biggest one. Together and apart, they have for a generation defined a league whose individual stars can determine a team's fate and shift the broader culture more than stars in other team sports can.
A playoff series headlined by Curry and James is the basketball equivalent of the Rolling Stones and the Beatles touring together. Or Muhammad Ali vs. Joe Frazier, except with a touch more gray and way more mutual respect. Or, in basketball terms, this is Magic Johnson vs. Larry Bird in the 1980s.
But this year's matchup is especially significant. James, at 38, and Curry, at 35, are nearing the end of careers that have revolutionized basketball, with no clear heirs to continue the progression. Curry's mastery of the 3-pointer ushered in a new era of long-distance shooting as a primary offensive attack, at all basketball levels. James, a powerful 6-foot-9 and 250 pounds, has been nearly impossible to duplicate physically, but he changed the way basketball stars viewed their own ability to bend teams to their will and create political and social capital for themselves off the floor.
Their playoff matchup this year may be the last time fans see two basketball players of this level of influence competing against each other in the postseason, which may be why ticket prices are breaking records for a non-championship series.
"What is it going to be like when those two guys -- obviously two of the biggest names in the league, if not the biggest -- are gone?" said Dell Curry, Stephen Curry's father and a former N.B.A. player. "I think the league is very healthy as far as star power, but who takes the lead in that role?"
For much of the past two decades, James and Curry have been the N.B.A.'s largest draws, generating revenue through television ratings, sponsorships, and jersey and ticket sales. In 2009, when Golden State drafted Curry, Forbes estimated that the team was worth $ 315 million -- the 18th most valuable N.B.A. franchise. Last year, after Curry led the team to its fourth championship in eight years, Golden State was ranked No. 1 with an eye-popping $ 7 billion valuation.
Tamika Tremaglio, the executive director of the N.B.A. players' union, said in an email that Curry and James "have fueled economic prosperity in the cities they play in."
"From an equity standpoint, our players are powerful, and Steph Curry and LeBron James are living proof of that truth," Tremaglio said.
New Orleans Pelicans guard CJ McCollum, the president of the players' union, said, "What they've done is astronomical to our game in terms of viewership, in terms of globalizing the game." He added, "Our league is in a better place because of it."
James's presence has been a boon at each stop in his career, from the Cleveland Cavaliers to the Miami Heat and now to Los Angeles. He has become a symbol of modern fandom, in which many fans follow players and not teams. And Curry, whose pregame shooting routines draw even opposing teams' fans, has shown how transcendent talent can test even the staunchest loyalties.
"The basketball impact is like every kid especially that is coming into the league now, those are the two guys you want to be like," said guard Isaiah Thomas, who has played with James and had to defend Curry. "I've seen younger guys come in the league and be in awe of these guys and they're competing against them."
Jamal Crawford, who recently retired after two decades in the N.B.A., said Curry's physique -- 6-foot-2 and 185 pounds -- made him seem like he was like "the boy next door" compared to bigger athletes.
"He's the guy -- the kid -- that every kid can look up to and say: 'You know what? If I work hard on my game, if I work on my skills, if I believe in myself, I can accomplish unbelievable things,"' said Crawford, now a TNT analyst. "If you look at LeBron, you say, 'Wow, he is a force of nature, something we've never seen before."'
Since they last met in the N.B.A. finals in 2018, Curry and James have expanded their influence on the culture. Curry spoke at the 2020 Democratic National Convention, and James endorsed Joe Biden for president that year and launched a voting rights group. They have been outspoken against gun violence, and Curry has helped with public health outreach during the coronavirus pandemic. James is the first active N.B.A. player to become a billionaire. And through production companies -- James's SpringHill Company and Curry's Unanimous Media -- both players have found opportunities to bolster their legacies, perhaps veering into hagiography.
The documentary "Stephen Curry: Underrated," directed by Peter Nicks and co-produced by Unanimous Media, debuted at the San Francisco International Film Festival last month and will stream on Apple TV in July. Curry, a top-10 draft pick out of Davidson, has won two Most Valuable Player Awards -- one by unanimous vote, for the only time in N.BA. history. To get there he struggled through ankle injuries early in his career, but he is now widely considered the best shooter ever.
In June, SpringHill, James's company, is releasing the feature film "Shooting Stars" on Peacock, based on his high school team, St. Vincent-St. Mary High School in Akron, Ohio. It is an adaptation of a 2009 book by James and Buzz Bissinger.
The projects underscore the two players' vastly different paths to stardom. James was already a sought-after star as a teenager. Sonny Vaccaro, the former shoe-marketing executive, once flew James out to a Lakers playoff game in a private plane from Adidas while he was in high school. James was enthralled, recounted Jeff Benedict, who recently released an independent biography of James titled "LeBron." He said James had long understood that "basketball isn't just a sport."
"It's like show business," Benedict said. "It's a very high form of public entertainment in the United States."
The cultural impact of Curry and James has also rippled out to the theater in independent plays unaffiliated with the stars. This summer, Inua Ellams, a playwright based in Britain, will debut a play called "The Half-God of Rainfall" at the New York Theater Workshop. The plot combines mythology and basketball: A half-god comes to Earth and becomes the biggest star in the N.B.A. Ellams, a longtime N.B.A. fan, said the character is loosely based on Curry and Milwaukee's Giannis Antetokounmpo.
In another play, Rajiv Joseph's "King James," which makes its Off Broadway premiere this month at the Manhattan Theater Club in New York, James looms but doesn't appear, an indication of his influence. The piece chronicles the friendship of two Cleveland-based men who idolize James.
Joseph, a Cleveland native and lifelong sports fan, said the idea for the play came to him after James won a championship with the Cavaliers in 2016.
"It always felt to me, as I came to think about it, is he was almost like this deity who, when he smiled upon our fair little land in Cleveland, crops thrived and rivers ran clear," Joseph said. "And then when he left, everything kind of dried up. Now, that is an exaggeration, but from a sports perspective, it certainly felt that way."
Ellams said the N.B.A. will feel a "cavernous" loss when Curry and James are gone. In February, James broke the league's career scoring record, which had been held by Kareem Abdul-Jabbar since 1984. Last season, Curry broke Ray Allen's career 3-pointer record in 511 fewer games.
"It's going to be half a century before anyone comes close to what they have done -- what they are actively doing," Ellams said. "This isn't history in the making. This is punching holes out of mountains."
James is in his 20th season, far past the time when most players' careers are over. He and Curry, in his 14th season, have staved off the need for the N.B.A. to fully transition into a new era of stardom. But those in and around the league are bullish about its future.
"There's always a next, even though we can't see it," said Candace Parker, one of the most accomplished players in W.N.B.A. history.
She added: "That's what we asked ourselves after Michael Jordan retired. After Magic and Bird retired. It just seems like there's always that next coming."
Parker, who plays for the Las Vegas Aces and is an N.B.A. analyst on TNT, cited players like Antetokounmpo, Dallas's Luka Doncic, Philadelphia's Joel Embiid and Victor Wembanyama, the French prodigy expected to go first in this year's N.B.A. draft, as possible torch carriers.
Oscar Robertson, one of the best guards ever to play in the N.B.A., said part of the reason Curry and James were able to maintain their influence was because of how well they were still playing at their ages.
"Some players when they are 29, they're even too old. Some players when they are 34, they're too old," Robertson, 84, said. He added: "Guys try to rise to the occasion to play against these two athletes. And I'm so glad that these two athletes are meeting that challenge every time they go on the court."
But so far, no other current player in the N.B.A. -- or likely anyone else in American team sports -- is in the same orbit of stardom and influence as James and Curry.
"We just have to enjoy these guys in the present because who knows how much longer they'll play?" Crawford said. "But what we do know is we won't see two like this ever again. So we should savor every moment."
Photograph LeBron James, top, now holds the career scoring record. Stephen Curry, above, holds the record for most 3-point shots made. Their teams are competing in the playoffs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLARA MOKRI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A31.

Subject: Ticket sales; Careers; Theater; High school basketball

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Curry, Stephen; James, LeBron

Company / organization: Name: Unanimous Media; NAICS: 512110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/06/sports/basketball/nba-lebron-james-stephen-curry.html

Title: Like Michael Jackson and Prince, 'They Command the Crowd':   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.31

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810282534

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/like-michael-jackson-prince-they-command-crowd/docview/2810282534/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Nothing Is Bigger Than Stephen Curry vs. LeBron James

Author: Sopan Deb

Publication info: Sopan Deb. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nothing-is-bigger-than-stephen-curry-vs-lebron/docview/2810214730/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Tim Hardaway knows stars when he sees them. Hardaway, a Hall of Fame point guard, battled against his share of them, including Michael Jordan, during a 14-year NBA career.
So when he sees Stephen Curry and LeBron James encountering each other yet again in the NBA playoffs, only one comparison comes to mind.
“Michael Jackson and Prince,” Hardaway said. “You must see that. That’s how big of a star they are. They command the crowd .”
James, with the Los Angeles Lakers, and Curry, with the Golden State Warriors, have the attention of the basketball world in the Western Conference semifinals. It’s not the biggest stage, like when they faced off in four straight NBA Finals from 2015 to 2018, as James played for Cleveland. But in the NBA, any stage they are on is the biggest one. Together and apart, they have for a generation defined a league whose individual stars can determine a team’s fate and shift the broader culture more than stars in other team sports can.
A playoff series headlined by Curry and James is the basketball equivalent of the Rolling Stones and the Beatles touring together. Or Muhammad Ali vs. Joe Frazier, except with a touch more gray and way more mutual respect. Or, in basketball terms, this is Magic Johnson vs. Larry Bird in the 1980s.
But this year’s matchup is especially significant. James, at 38, and Curry, at 35, are nearing the end of careers that have revolutionized basketball, with no clear heirs to continue the progression. Curry’s mastery of the 3-pointer ushered in a new era of long-distance shooting as a primary offensive attack, at all basketball levels. James, a powerful 6-foot-9 and 250 pounds, has been nearly impossible to duplicate physically, but he changed the way basketball stars viewed their own ability to bend teams to their will and create political and social capital for themselves off the floor.
Their playoff matchup this year may be the last time fans see two basketball players of this level of influence competing against each other in the postseason, which may be why ticket prices are breaking records for a non-championship series.
“What is it going to be like when those two guys — obviously two of the biggest names in the league, if not the biggest — are gone?” said Dell Curry, Stephen Curry’s father and a former NBA player. “I think the league is very healthy as far as star power, but who takes the lead in that role?”
For much of the past two decades, James and Curry have been the NBA’s largest draws, generating revenue through television ratings, sponsorships, and jersey and ticket sales. In 2009, when Golden State drafted Curry, Forbes estimated that the team was worth $315 million — the 18th most valuable NBA franchise. Last year, after Curry led the team to its fourth championship in eight years, Golden State was ranked No. 1 with an eye-popping $7 billion valuation.
Tamika Tremaglio, the executive director of the NBA players union, said in an email that Curry and James “have fueled economic prosperity in the cities they play in.”
“From an equity standpoint, our players are powerful, and Steph Curry and LeBron James are living proof of that truth,” Tremaglio said.
New Orleans Pelicans guard CJ McCollum, the president of the players union, said, “What they’ve done is astronomical to our game in terms of viewership, in terms of globalizing the game.” He added, “Our league is in a better place because of it.”
James’ presence has been a boon at each stop in his career, from the Cleveland Cavaliers to the Miami Heat and now to Los Angeles. He has become a symbol of modern fandom, in which many fans follow players and not teams. And Curry, whose pregame shooting routines draw even opposing teams’ fans, has shown how transcendent talent can test even the staunchest loyalties.
“The basketball impact is like every kid especially that is coming into the league now, those are the two guys you want to be like,” said guard Isaiah Thomas, who has played with James and had to defend Curry. “I’ve seen younger guys come in the league and be in awe of these guys, and they’re competing against them.”
Jamal Crawford, who recently retired after two decades in the NBA, said Curry’s physique — 6-foot-2 and 185 pounds — made him seem like he was like “the boy next door” compared to bigger athletes.
“He’s the guy — the kid — that every kid can look up to and say, ‘You know what? If I work hard on my game, if I work on my skills, if I believe in myself, I can accomplish unbelievable things,’” said Crawford, now a TNT analyst. “If you look at LeBron, you say, ‘Wow, he is a force of nature, something we’ve never seen before.’”
Since they last met in the NBA Finals in 2018, Curry and James have expanded their influence on the culture. Curry spoke at the 2020 Democratic National Convention, and James endorsed Joe Biden for president that year and launched a voting rights group. They have been outspoken against gun violence, and Curry has helped with public health outreach during the coronavirus pandemic. James is the first active NBA player to become a billionaire. And through production companies — James’ SpringHill Co. and Curry’s Unanimous Media — both players have found opportunities to bolster their legacies, perhaps veering into hagiography.
The documentary “Stephen Curry: Underrated,” directed by Peter Nicks and coproduced by Unanimous Media, debuted at the San Francisco International Film Festival last month and will stream on Apple TV+ in July. Curry, a top-10 draft pick out of Davidson, has won two MVP awards — one by unanimous vote, for the only time in NBA history. To get there, he struggled through ankle injuries early in his career, but he is now widely considered the best shooter ever.
In June, SpringHill, James’ company, is releasing the feature film “Shooting Stars” on Peacock, based on his high school team, St. Vincent-St. Mary High School in Akron, Ohio. It is an adaptation of a 2009 book by James and Buzz Bissinger.
The projects underscore the two players’ vastly different paths to stardom. James was already a sought-after star as a teenager. Sonny Vaccaro, a former shoe marketing executive, once flew James out to a Lakers playoff game in a private plane from Adidas while he was in high school. James was enthralled, recounted Jeff Benedict, who recently released an independent biography of James titled “LeBron.” He said James had long understood that “basketball isn’t just a sport.”
“It’s like show business,” Benedict said. “It’s a very high form of public entertainment in the United States.”
The cultural impact of Curry and James has also rippled out to the theater in independent plays unaffiliated with the stars. This summer, Inua Ellams, a playwright based in Britain, will debut a play called “The Half-God of Rainfall” at the New York Theater Workshop. The plot combines mythology and basketball: A half-god comes to Earth and becomes the biggest star in the NBA. Ellams, a longtime NBA fan, said the character is loosely based on Curry and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo.
In another play, Rajiv Joseph’s “King James,” which makes its off-Broadway premiere this month at the Manhattan Theater Club in New York, James looms but doesn’t appear, an indication of his influence. The piece chronicles the friendship of two Cleveland-based men who idolize James.
Joseph, a Cleveland native and lifelong sports fan, said the idea for the play came to him after James won a championship with the Cavaliers in 2016.
“It always felt to me, as I came to think about it, is he was almost like this deity who, when he smiled upon our fair little land in Cleveland, crops thrived and rivers ran clear,” Joseph said. “And then when he left, everything kind of dried up. Now, that is an exaggeration, but from a sports perspective, it certainly felt that way.”
Ellams said the NBA will feel a “cavernous” loss when Curry and James are gone. In February, James broke the league’s career scoring record, which had been held by Kareem Abdul-Jabbar since 1984. Last season, Curry broke Ray Allen’s career 3-pointer record in 511 fewer games.
“It’s going to be half a century before anyone comes close to what they have done — what they are actively doing,” Ellams said. “This isn’t history in the making. This is punching holes out of mountains .”
James is in his 20th season, far past the time when most players’ careers are over. He and Curry, in his 14th season, have staved off the need for the NBA to fully transition into a new era of stardom. But those in and around the league are bullish about its future.
“There’s always a next, even though we can’t see it ,” said Candace Parker, one of the most accomplished players in WNBA history.
She added, “That’s what we asked ourselves after Michael Jordan retired. After Magic and Bird retired. It just seems like there’s always that next coming.”
Parker, who plays for the Las Vegas Aces and is an NBA analyst on TNT, cited players like Antetokounmpo, Dallas’ Luka Doncic, Philadelphia’s Joel Embiid and Victor Wembanyama, the French prodigy expected to go first in this year’s NBA draft, as possible torch carriers.
Oscar Robertson, one of the best guards ever to play in the NBA, said part of the reason Curry and James were able to maintain their influence was because of how well they were still playing at their ages.
“Some players, when they are 29, they’re even too old. Some players, when they are 34, they’re too old,” said Robertson, 84. He added, “ Guys try to rise to the occasion to play against these two athletes. And I’m so glad that these two athletes are meeting that challenge every time they go on the court.”
But so far, no other current player in the NBA — or likely anyone else in American team sports — is in the same orbit of stardom and influence as James and Curry.
“We just have to enjoy these guys in the present because who knows how much longer they’ll play?” Crawford said. “But what we do know is, we won’t see two like this ever again. So we should savor every moment.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Ticket sales; Careers; Theater; High school basketball

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Curry, Stephen; James, LeBron

Company / organization: Name: Unanimous Media; NAICS: 512110; Name: Golden State Warriors; NAICS: 711211

Identifier / keyword: Basketball; Las Vegas, Nev, Shooting (October, 2017); Philadelphia (Pa); Embiid, Joel; Primaries And Caucuses; Women's National Basketball Assn; Assaults; Endorsements; Las Vegas Aces; Movies; National Basketball Players Assn; Cleveland Cavaliers; Parker, Candace; Great Britain; New York Theater Workshop; Celebrities; Golden State Warriors; Nineteen Hundred Sixties; Miami Heat; United States; Nba Championship; Akron (Ohio); San Antonio Stars; Sports; Curry, Dell; Nicks, Peter; Elections; Festivals; Deb, Sopan (1988 ); Forbes Magazine; Bird, Larry; Wills And Estates; Cleveland (Ohio); National Basketball Assn; Johnson, Earvin; Draft And Recruitment (Sports); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Gold; Tremaglio, Tamika; Robertson, Oscar; Doncic, Luka (1999 ); Ohio; Manhattan Theater Club; University Of Akron; Crawford, Jamal; Frazier, Joe (1944 2011); Benedict, Jeff; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Ali, Muhammad; Organized Labor; Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; Abdul Jabbar, Kareem; Orlando Magic; Native Americans; Jordan, Michael; Ellams, Inua; Turner Network Television; University Of Virginia; Joseph, Rajiv; San Francisco (Calif); Peacock Services; Drought; Apple Tv; Curry, Stephen; Athletics And Sports; France; Interscholastic Athletics; Playoff Games; Rolling Stones; Las Vegas (Nev); Mccollum, C J; New Orleans (La); Bissinger, Buzz; Wembanyama, Victor; Altruism; Antetokounmpo, Giannis (1994 ); Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Democratic National Convention; Colleges And Universities; Milwaukee (Wis); Appointments And Executive Changes; Adidas Ag; James, Lebron; Lebron (Book); St Vincent (1982 ); Fans (Persons); Los Angeles Lakers

Title: Nothing Is Bigger Than Stephen Curry vs. LeBron James

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-06T19:05:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810214730

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nothing-is-bigger-than-stephen-curry-vs-lebron/docview/2810214730/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2810023178/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: BANKS
Shareholders Vote Down
Plan to Break Up HSBC
Shareholders in HSBC, the European financial giant, voted on Friday to reject an investor proposal meant to pressure the bank into breaking off its lucrative Asian operations.
That initiative -- backed by HSBC's largest investor, the sprawling Chinese insurer Ping An -- received only about 20 percent of the votes, the company said. A companion proposal backed by Ping An, to restore the bank's dividend to prepandemic levels, was also defeated.
The vote was a show of support for HSBC's management, which had urged shareholders to vote no. It was announced by the bank's chairman, Mark Tucker, at the annual shareholder meeting Friday in Birmingham, England.
The bank's leaders have repeatedly rejected calls to separate its Hong Kong-based business, which accounts for nearly half of its revenue.
With nearly $ 3 trillion in assets, HSBC is among the 10 largest banks. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
LEGAL
Settlements to Arrive
For TurboTax Users
Millions of Americans who qualified for free tax services -- but were instead deceived into paying TurboTax for their returns -- will soon get settlement checks in the mail.
In a settlement last year, TurboTax's owner, Intuit Inc., was ordered to pay $ 141 million to some 4.4 million people across the country. Those affected were low-income consumers eligible for free, federally supported tax services -- but paid TurboTax to file their federal returns across the 2016, 2017 and 2018 tax years because of "predatory and deceptive marketing," said Letitia James, New York's attorney general.
All 50 states and the District of Columbia signed the May 2022 settlement, led by Ms. James.
Consumers eligible for restitution payments do not need to file a claim, the New York attorney's general office said. They will be notified by an email from Rust Consulting, the settlement fund administrator, and receive a check automatically. ASSOCIATED PRESS
APPAREL
Adidas Closer to Decision
On Unsold Yeezy Shoes
It has been nearly seven months since Adidas split with the rapper formerly known as Kanye West, and boxes of his popular Yeezy shoes are still piled up in warehouses.
The fate of $ 1.3 billion worth of unsold Yeezy stock is weighing on Adidas as it tries to engineer a turnaround from the loss of the lucrative sneaker line and the fallout over its former ties to Ye.
Adidas is "getting closer and closer to making a decision" on what to do with the sneakers, and the "options are narrowing," Bjorn Gulden, the company's new chief executive, said in a conference call on Friday after reporting $ 441 million in lost sales at the start of the year.
But with "so many interested parties" involved in the discussions, no decision had yet been reached, he said.
Adidas is stuck with the shoes after ending its relationship with Ye in October over his antisemitic comments. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Michael J. de la Merced and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Shareholder voting; Stockholders; Shareholder meetings; Tax services

Business indexing term: Subject: Shareholder voting Stockholders Shareholder meetings Tax services

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/05/business/06bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810023178

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2810023178/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Congress and Biden Clash Over Chinese Solar Panels: [National Desk]

Author: Swanson, Ana

Publication info: Swanson, Ana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congress-biden-clash-over-chinese-solar-panels/docview/2808814781/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a rebuke to the Biden administration, the Senate approved a measure to reinstate tariffs on solar panels found to violate U.S. trade rules.
The Senate voted on Wednesday to reinstate tariffs on solar panels from Chinese companies in Southeast Asia that had been found to be coming into the United States in violation of trade rules.
The measure, which passed by a vote of 56 to 41, had already been approved by the House. It sets up a showdown with the Biden administration, which had temporarily halted the tariffs to try to ensure that the country had an adequate supply of solar panels in the fight against climate change.
President Biden has said that he will veto the measure, and a two-thirds majority of lawmakers in both houses would be needed to override him.
But the measure, which several key Democrats supported, was a notable rebuke of the Biden administration's actions. Critics have said that Mr. Biden's decision not to impose the tariffs on the Chinese solar makers violated U.S. trade rules and failed to defend American workers.
"This vote was a simple choice: Do you stand with American manufacturers and American workers, or do you stand with China?" Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said in a statement. "Now we are sending a clear message that we must level the playing field for workers and manufacturers in Ohio and across the country."
Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, responded to the vote on Twitter. "If President Biden cares about American jobs, the environment, preventing slave labor, or countering Communist China," Mr. Rubio wrote, "he will sign this into law."
The fight centers on whether certain solar imports were brought into the United States at unfairly low prices. In December, a U.S. trade court ruled that four Chinese companies had illegally tried to dodge American tariffs on solar products sent from China by routing their products through factories in Southeast Asia.
Typically, companies that are found to be circumventing U.S. tariffs would immediately be subject to higher duty rates to bring their products into the United States. But Mr. Biden took the unusual step in June of pausing those tariffs for two years.
The delay was supported by solar panel importers and project installers, who argued that the tariffs should be paused for even longer.
In a statement, Abigail Ross Hopper, the chief executive of the Solar Energy Industries Association, said lawmakers had "voted to pull the rug out from businesses that are investing billions of dollars and employing thousands of people in their states."
"Curbing supply at this critical time will hurt American businesses and prevent us from deploying clean, reliable energy in the near term," she said.
But some prominent Democrats have said the president's decision was a violation of U.S. trade rules written to protect American manufacturers from unfair foreign competition. Republicans have also seized on the issue to criticize Mr. Biden as being weak on China and spotlighted the Chinese solar industry's ties with forced labor in the Xinjiang region of China.
"We must hold those who violate U.S. trade laws accountable, including China," said Representative Dan Kildee, Democrat of Michigan, who wrote the House legislation. "When we fail to enforce our trade laws, it hurts Michigan and American businesses and workers."
The Biden administration is taking steps to limit U.S. dependence on China, including investing heavily to build up American manufacturing of solar panels, semiconductors and car batteries.
But the White House sees mitigating climate change as among its most important priorities, and officials have argued that in the near term the United States will need to continue purchasing solar products from China, which makes the vast majority of cells and panels that convert sunlight into electricity.
In a statement on April 24, the White House said that it strongly opposed the congressional resolution and that the president would veto it if it were passed.
"The administration is working aggressively to support domestic solar panel manufacturing," the White House statement said, adding, "However, these investments will take time to ramp up production -- which is why last spring, the president declared an emergency to ensure that Americans have access to reliable, affordable and clean electricity."
For Republicans and Democrats in Congress, tough measures against China have become one rare area of bipartisan agreement, with lawmakers banding together to call for tougher trade penalties and grilling the chief executive of TikTok, a Chinese-owned app.
On Monday, Senate Democrats announced that they would introduce a bill to maintain America's economic leadership against China, building on previous legislation subsidizing the semiconductor industry. The House select committee on China is also gearing up to begin investigating major businesses' possible ties to forced labor in Xinjiang. Adidas, Nike, Shein and Temu are expected to be the panel's initial targets, according to a person familiar with the plans.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Legislators; Tariffs; International trade; Photovoltaic cells; Manufacturers; Presidents; Forced labor; Manufacturing

Business indexing term: Subject: Tariffs International trade Manufacturers Forced labor Manufacturing

Location: Southeast Asia; United States--US; Ohio; China; Michigan

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/03/us/politics/senate-tariffs-chinese-solar-panels.html

Title: Congress and Biden Clash Over Chinese So lar Panels:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2808814781

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congress-biden-clash-over-chinese-solar-panels/docview/2808814781/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 4, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

College Town Is Convulsed By Stabbings: [National Desk]

Author: Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/college-town-is-convulsed-stabbings/docview/2808459705/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two people have died and a third person has been wounded over the course of five days in Davis, Calif. The police said they were uncertain whether only one assailant was involved.
A placid Northern California college town has been rocked by a series of stabbings in which two people have been killed and a third critically wounded in less than a week.
The police in Davis, Calif., a community of about 70,000 people west of Sacramento, have been asking for the public's help since a 50-year-old man was found dead with stab wounds on Thursday in the city's Central Park. Two days later, a University of California, Davis student was stabbed to death in a different park.
The latest attack occurred on Monday night, severely injuring a woman sleeping in a homeless encampment near railroad tracks just east of downtown. In a 911 call shortly before midnight, the woman told dispatchers that she had been stabbed through the wall of her tent. Witnesses reported seeing a man fleeing the scene. The woman was hospitalized and in critical but stable condition on Tuesday.
It remains unclear whether all three attacks were committed by the same person, the police said, but the descriptions provided by witnesses in the most recent two stabbings are similar. The authorities are seeking a thin, curly haired young man, between 5 feet 6 inches and 5 feet 9 inches tall, wearing a dark sweatshirt and black Adidas pants.
The Monday night stabbing triggered a shelter-in-place order in the city and across the U.C. Davis campus that lasted until just before dawn on Tuesday as officers scoured the community's streets and yards with drones and police dogs, said Lt. Dan Beckwith, a spokesman for the Davis Police Department.
Homicide is "extremely rare" in Davis, Lieutenant Beckwith said. Data from the Police Department's website indicates that the last homicide inside city limits occurred during an incident of domestic violence in late 2019.
"I've been with the department coming up on 40 years now," said the Davis police chief, Darren Pytel, in a news conference on Tuesday as he urged the public to be vigilant after dark and avoid venturing alone into poorly lit places. "This is different."
The first attack killed David Henry Breaux, 50, a Stanford University graduate who slept outdoors and undertook a yearslong project as "Compassion Guy," in which he solicited definitions of compassion from the public, often at the popular farmers market at the park where he was found dead. Lieutenant Beckwith said that a passer-by at the park, which is a short walk from the campus, discovered Mr. Breaux's lifeless body slouched on a bench at 11:20 a.m. on Thursday. Emergency medical workers determined that he had died of multiple stab wounds.
The Saturday attack killed Karim Abou-Najm, 20, a senior who majored in computer science at U.C. Davis and had just posted excitedly on social media about his research and pending graduation this spring.
The son of a faculty member, Mr. Najm was killed at 9:14 p.m. in Sycamore Park, in a more residential neighborhood that was also a short distance from campus, the lieutenant said.
"A resident had heard a disturbance in the park, and when they went out to check they found the victim on a concrete bike path and saw a man fleeing the scene," he said. "The attack was similar in nature -- very brutal -- and the victim had been stabbed multiple times."
The witness in that attack had briefly exchanged words with the assailant, and was working with detectives to draw up a police sketch, Chief Pytel said.
The back-to-back attacks have stunned Davis, an affluent, liberal community about 15 miles from the state capital that is known for its public schools, civic activism and extensive network of bike paths. "This is a town where people know each other," Lieutenant Beckwith said.
"Everyone is worried and scared and in complete shock," said Lucas Frerichs, a Yolo County supervisor and former mayor of Davis.
"David Breaux was beloved," he said, searching for words to describe the community's trauma. "He was probably one of the most peaceful, gentle people you'll ever come across. Karim Abou-Najm -- also peaceful and gentle. And promising. He grew up here. And a homeless woman, so vulnerable. And the violence of these attacks."
Lieutenant Beckwith said that evidence from the crime scenes was being processed and that the F.B.I. and California Department of Justice had been called in to assist with the investigation, along with other police and sheriff's departments in Sacramento and Yolo counties, including campus police.
"We are all hands on deck," he said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Domestic violence; Criminal investigations; Murders & murder attempts; College campuses; Stabbings; Homeless encampments

Location: United States--US; Sacramento California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/02/us/davis-stabbings-college.html

Title: College Town Is Convulsed By Stabbings:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2808459705

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/college-town-is-convulsed-stabbings/docview/2808459705/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 3, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jets Finally Get Their New No. 12: [Sports Desk]

Author: Rhim, Kris

Publication info: Rhim, Kris. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jets-finally-get-their-new-no-12/docview/2805338970/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Rodgers, a four-time league M.V.P. with the Green Bay Packers, will look to turn the Jets into a Super Bowl contender.
The Green Bay Packers traded quarterback Aaron Rodgers to the Jets on Monday, ending a three-year power struggle between the Packers and one of pro football's greatest passers.
After a relatively lengthy negotiation process, the Jets agreed to trade the No. 13 overall pick in this year's draft, as well as two later-round picks and a conditional second-round pick in the 2024 N.F.L. draft, in exchange for Rodgers, the No. 15 pick and a later-round pick. The trade, which was confirmed by a person with knowledge of the terms who was not authorized to speak publicly, was first reported by ESPN.
The deal for Rodgers had been imminent since March, when he said on "The Pat McAfee Show" that he intended to play for the Jets this season. In the six weeks since that confirmation, Jets and Packers leadership publicly said that the trade would happen, but the teams did not come to terms until three days before the N.F.L. draft was scheduled to begin in Kansas City, Mo.
Packers General Manager Brian Gutekunst said in a news conference Monday that it was "unfortunate and disappointing" that he had not talked with Rodgers since the season ended, but was "really excited" to move forward with Jordan Love, who had sat behind Rodgers for the past three seasons.
Since quarterback Joe Namath led the Jets to their only Super Bowl appearance, a victory in January 1969, the franchise has struggled to find another long-term successor. The team has used first-round picks to try to fix the position: Richard Todd in 1976, Ken O'Brien in 1983, Chad Pennington in 2000, Mark Sanchez in 2009, Sam Darnold in 2018, and Zach Wilson in 2021.
In the promising 2022 season, the Jets began 6-3 behind one of the best defenses in the league and a talented offense. But lackluster quarterback play was the team's most glaring deficiency, and it ultimately kept the Jets out of the playoffs for the 10th straight season. Now the Jets get Rodgers, who should position the Jets as championship contenders.
Rodgers, 39, spent 18 seasons in Green Bay, where he won the league's Most Valuable Player Award four times, most recently in 2020 and 2021. But he had grown increasingly discontented with the franchise's direction and his lack of input on personnel decisions.
Rodgers became the Packers' starter in 2008, three years after the team drafted him with the 24th overall pick out of California, Berkeley. He replaced the Hall of Famer Brett Favre, who had delivered one title in 16 seasons in Green Bay before the Packers traded him to the Jets.
Rodgers quickly eased fans' nostalgia for Favre. After a six-win season in his first year as a starter, Rodgers made the Pro Bowl in the 2009 season after leading the Packers to an 11-5 record. In his third season as a starter, Rodgers and Green Bay won a Super Bowl title over the Pittsburgh Steelers.
He followed the championship with arguably the best season of his career. Rodgers won his first M.V.P. Award, finishing with the most passing yards (4,643) of his career, and the highest quarterback rating (122.5) in N.F.L. history. Rodgers also holds the record for the second-highest quarterback rating, 121.5, set in the 2020 season.
Favre became the first and only quarterback to win M.V.P. in three consecutive seasons from 1995 to 1997. Starting in 2003, the award was traded between Tom Brady and Peyton Manning, two generational quarterbacks who won six of nine M.V.P. Awards before Rodgers crashed the party.
Rodgers became a face of the N.F.L., noted as much for his endorsements with State Farm and Adidas as for posting some of the best statistical performances of any quarterback of his era. But another championship evaded him and the Packers while Brady, Manning, Ben Roethlisberger and Patrick Mahomes have all won at least two Super Bowls.
The Packers lost in the N.F.C. championship game five times with Rodgers under center, a playoff obstacle that revealed the fissure between the quarterback and his team beginning in January 2020 after a blowout loss to the San Francisco 49ers in that round.
Ahead of that year's draft, Rodgers criticized the Packers for not using first-round picks on wide receivers who could pair alongside the then-starter Davante Adams. "We haven't picked a skill player in the first round in 15 years, so that would be kind of cool," Rodgers said in an interview.
Green Bay team executives that year drafted Love with the 26th overall pick, a move that seemed to echo Rodgers's selection in 2005 when a veteran Favre was the team's starter.
Rodgers responded with one of his best seasons, leading the league in completion percentage (70.7) and touchdown passes (48) -- and another loss in the conference championship game.
That off-season, Rodgers stewed privately and in public appearances on podcasts, and even as he guest-hosted the TV game show "Jeopardy!" The tension reached a head in April 2021, when ESPN reported that Rodgers had asked to be traded.
In July 2021, Rodgers skipped mandatory minicamp but later attended training camp, addressing the rift in his first news conference. "I just expressed my desire to be more involved in conversations directly affecting my job," he said, explaining his desire for more of a role in the team's personnel decisions.
But the season was defined as much by Rodgers's performance as the reasons for his absences. He tested positive for the coronavirus in November, months after he had told reporters that he was "immunized" against the disease. Rodgers that month decried the league's vaccination mandate and "woke culture" in two podcast interviews. The N.F.L. later fined him $ 14,650 for violations of the protocols for unvaccinated players, which included not wearing a mask during his weekly news conferences and attending a Halloween party.
Despite the conflicts, Rodgers again excelled in the 2021 season, throwing 37 touchdown passes to just four interceptions, leading the N.F.L. in passer rating and guiding the Packers to a 13-4 record during another M.V.P. campaign. The team lost in the divisional round of the playoffs, but that off-season Rodgers signed a three-year contract extension with a reported $ 150 million in guaranteed money.
In March 2022, the Packers traded Adams to the Las Vegas Raiders, and the Packers' offense struggled. Green Bay missed the playoffs, losing its final game of the season to the Detroit Lions, a team Rodgers has beaten 18 times in his career.
As reports of Rodgers's interest in the Jets hit social media in the weeks leading up to the trade, Jets players openly vied for his services. Ahmad Gardner, the Jets cornerback known as Sauce, wore a Packers fan's cheesehead hat after the team beat Green Bay last season. He burned the hat alongside other Jets teammates on a video meant to recruit Rodgers. The Jets' campaign for Rodgers came just two seasons after selecting Wilson with the No. 2 overall pick, but Wilson rarely looked the part of franchise centerpiece. He was benched in November 2022, after the offense gained just 2 yards in the second half of a 10-3 defeat to the New England Patriots.
Wilson now enters the third year of his rookie contract expected to play backup behind Rodgers, who received the blessing of the franchise's most successful quarterback in March. As the Jets sought the trade, Namath invited Rodgers to continue wearing the No. 12, which both quarterbacks share, despite the team having retired the jersey in Namath's honor.
Rodgers could instead sport the No. 8, which he wore in college. That number was occupied last season by receiver Elijah Moore, who was traded to the Cleveland Browns last month as the Jets reworked the offense.
Aaron Rodgers departed Green Bay after 18 seasons amid growing tension with Packers management over three years. Joe Namath will let him wear No. 12 on the Jets, though it is retired. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL STREICHER/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS) (B7); Aaron Rodgers after leading the Packers past the Steelers in Super Bowl XLV in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Rodgers with Zach Wilson, left, after a Packers-Jets game in October. Rodgers is set to succeed Wilson as the starter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STACY REVERE/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) This article appeared in print on page B7, B9.

Subject: Press conferences; Tournaments & championships; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

People: Rodgers, Aaron; Namath, Joe

Company / organization: Name: Green Bay Packers; NAICS: 711211; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/24/sports/football/aaron-rodgers-jets-green-bay-packers.html

Title: Jets Finally Get Their New No. 12:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805338970

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jets-finally-get-their-new-no-12/docview/2805338970/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

With Jets Trade, Aaron Rodgers Gets His Ask: A Team Desperate for Him

Author: Rhim, Kris

Publication info: Rhim, Kris. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-jets-trade-aaron-rodgers-gets-his-ask-team/docview/2805271754/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The Green Bay Packers traded quarterback Aaron Rodgers to the New York Jets on Monday, ending a three-year power struggle between the Packers and one of pro football’s greatest passers.
After a relatively lengthy negotiation process, the Jets agreed to trade the No. 13 overall pick in this year’s draft, as well as two later-round picks and a conditional second-round pick in the 2024 NFL draft, in exchange for Rodgers, the No. 15 pick and a later-round pick. The trade, which was confirmed by a person with knowledge of the terms who was not authorized to speak publicly, was first reported by ESPN.
The deal for Rodgers had been imminent since March, when he said on “The Pat McAfee Show” that he intended to play for the Jets this season. In the six weeks since that confirmation, Jets and Packers leadership publicly said that the trade would happen, but the teams did not come to terms until three days before the NFL draft was scheduled to begin in Kansas City, Missouri.
Packers General Manager Brian Gutekunst said in a news conference Monday that it was “unfortunate and disappointing” that he had not talked with Rodgers since the season ended, but that he was “really excited” to move forward with Jordan Love, who had sat behind Rodgers for the past three seasons.
Since quarterback Joe Namath led the Jets to their only Super Bowl appearance, a victory in 1969, the franchise has struggled to find a long-term successor. The team has used first-round picks to try to fix the position: Richard Todd in 1976, Ken O’Brien in 1983, Chad Pennington in 2000, Mark Sanchez in 2009, Sam Darnold in 2018, and Zach Wilson in 2021.
In the promising 2022 season, the Jets began 6-3 behind one of the best defenses in the league and a talented offense. But lackluster quarterback play was the team’s most glaring deficiency, and it ultimately kept the Jets out of the playoffs for the 10th straight season. Now the Jets get Rodgers, who should position the team as championship contenders.
Rodgers, 39, spent 18 seasons in Green Bay, where he won the league’s Most Valuable Player Award four times, most recently in 2020 and 2021. But he had grown increasingly discontented with the franchise’s direction and his lack of input on personnel decisions.
Rodgers became the Packers’ starter in 2008, three years after the team drafted him with the 24th overall pick out of California, Berkeley. He replaced Hall of Famer Brett Favre, who had delivered one title in 16 seasons in Green Bay before the Packers traded him to the Jets.
Rodgers quickly eased fans’ nostalgia for Favre. After a six-win season in his first year as a starter, Rodgers made the Pro Bowl in the 2009 season after leading the Packers to an 11-5 record. In his third season as a starter, Rodgers and Green Bay won a Super Bowl title over the Pittsburgh Steelers.
He followed the championship with arguably the best season of his career. Rodgers won his first MVP Award, finishing with the most passing yards (4,643) of his career, and the highest quarterback rating (122.5) in NFL history. Rodgers also holds the record for the second-highest quarterback rating, 121.5, set in the 2020 season.
Favre became the first and only quarterback to win MVP in three consecutive seasons from 1995 to 1997. Starting in 2003, the award was traded between Tom Brady and Peyton Manning, two generational quarterbacks who won six of nine MVP Awards before Rodgers crashed the party.
Rodgers became a face of the NFL, noted as much for his endorsements with State Farm and Adidas as for posting some of the best statistical performances of any quarterback of his era. But another championship eluded him and the Packers, while Brady, Manning, Ben Roethlisberger and Patrick Mahomes have all won at least two Super Bowls.
The Packers lost in the NFC championship game five times with Rodgers under center, a playoff obstacle that revealed the fissure between the quarterback and his team beginning in January 2020 after a blowout loss to the San Francisco 49ers in that round.
Before that year’s draft, Rodgers criticized the Packers for not using first-round picks on wide receivers who could pair alongside the then-starter Davante Adams. “We haven’t picked a skill player in the first round in 15 years, so that would be kind of cool,” Rodgers said in an interview.
Green Bay team executives that year drafted quarterback Love with the 26th overall pick, a move that seemed to echo Rodgers’ selection in 2005 when a veteran Favre was the team’s starter.
Rodgers responded with one of his best seasons, leading the league in completion percentage (70.7) and touchdown passes (48) — and another loss in the conference championship game.
That offseason, Rodgers stewed privately and in public appearances on podcasts, and even as he guest-hosted the TV game show “Jeopardy!” The tension reached a head in April 2021, when ESPN reported that Rodgers had asked to be traded.
In July 2021, Rodgers skipped mandatory minicamp but later attended training camp, addressing the rift in his first news conference. “I just expressed my desire to be more involved in conversations directly affecting my job,” he said, explaining his desire for more of a role in the team’s personnel decisions.
But the season was defined as much by Rodgers’ performance as the reasons for his absences. He tested positive for the coronavirus in November, months after he had told reporters that he was “immunized” against the disease. Rodgers that month decried the league’s vaccination mandate and “woke culture” in two podcast interviews. The NFL later fined him $14,650 for violations of the protocols for unvaccinated players, which included not wearing a mask during his weekly news conferences and attending a Halloween party.
Despite the conflicts, Rodgers again excelled in the 2021 season, throwing 37 touchdown passes to just four interceptions, leading the NFL in passer rating and guiding the Packers to a 13-4 record during another MVP campaign. The team lost in the divisional round of the playoffs, but that offseason Rodgers signed a three-year contract extension with a reported $150 million in guaranteed money.
In March 2022, the Packers traded Adams to the Las Vegas Raiders, and the Packers’ offense struggled. Green Bay missed the playoffs, losing its final game of the season to the Detroit Lions, a team Rodgers has beaten 18 times in his career.
As reports of Rodgers’ interest in the Jets hit social media in the weeks leading up to the trade, Jets players openly vied for his services. Ahmad Gardner, the Jets cornerback known as Sauce, wore a Packers fan’s cheesehead hat after the team beat Green Bay last season. He burned the hat alongside other Jets teammates on a video meant to recruit Rodgers.ch
The Jets’ campaign for Rodgers came just two seasons after selecting Wilson with the No. 2 overall pick, but Wilson rarely looked the part of franchise centerpiece. He was benched in November 2022, after the offense gained just 2 yards in the second half of a 10-3 defeat to the New England Patriots.
Wilson now enters the third year of his rookie contract expected to play backup behind Rodgers, who received the blessing of the franchise’s most successful quarterback in March. As the Jets sought the trade, Namath invited Rodgers to continue wearing the No. 12, which both quarterbacks share, despite the team having retired the jersey in Namath’s honor.
Rodgers could instead sport the No. 8, which he wore in college. That number was occupied last season by receiver Elijah Moore, who was traded to the Cleveland Browns last month as the Jets reworked the offense.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Press conferences; Athletic drafts & trades; Careers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Rodgers, Aaron

Company / organization: Name: Green Bay Packers; NAICS: 711211; Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

Identifier / keyword: Sports; California; Halloween; England; Gutekunst, Brian; Berkeley (Mo); Bergen Record; Adidas Ag; Las Vegas Raiders; Wilson, Zach (1999 ); Detroit Lions; Darnold, Sam (1997 ); Todd, Richard; New England States (Us); National Football Conference; Rodgers, Aaron; Animal Abuse, Rights And Welfare; State Farm Insurance Cos; Super Bowl; Jeopardy! (Tv Program); Espn; Records And Achievements; Hiring And Promotion; Missouri; Draft And Recruitment (Sports); National Football League; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Awards, Decorations And Honors; Pittsburgh Steelers; Kansas City (Mo); Pennington, Chad; Berkeley (Calif); Kansas; San Francisco (Calif); Pro Bowl; Namath, Joe; Manning, Peyton; Newspapers; Sanchez, Mark; Podcasts; University Of Missouri; Television; Athletics And Sports; San Francisco 49ers; Fast Food Industry; Football; Playoff Games; Atlantic 10 Conference; Green Bay Packers; New England Patriots; Las Vegas (Nev); Brady, Tom; Gardner, Ahmad (2000 ); Roethlisberger, Ben; Favre, Brett; Mahomes, Patrick (1995 ); New York Jets; Colleges And Universities; Adams, Davante (1992 ); Cleveland Browns

Title: With Jets Trade, Aaron Rodgers Gets His Ask: A Team Desperate for Him

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-24T23:24:20Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805271754

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-jets-trade-aaron-rodgers-gets-his-ask-team/docview/2805271754/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

C.E.O. of German Media Giant Axel Springer Apologizes for Remarks Exposed by Rival Paper: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/c-e-o-german-media-giant-axel-springer-apologizes/docview/2802215880/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Texts by Mathias Döpfner, the chief executive of the German media giant, included a request urging favorable coverage of a political party. They were published by a rival publication.
Mathias Döpfner, the chief executive of Axel Springer, the Berlin-based publishing giant that owns Politico and Business Insider, is facing criticism for private comments he made insulting East Germans and urging an editor of one of his newspapers to report favorably on a political party in the 2021 German election.
The text messages, which were published by the German weekly Die Zeit, are the latest revelations to rock the company since accusations of workplace misconduct against a prominent editor of its leading German publication, Bild, emerged in 2021.
The texts gave a glimpse of Mr. Döpfner's thoughts on a variety of topics, including his opinion of former Chancellor Angela Merkel and his position on climate change. Die Zeit did not reveal how it had obtained the private messages.
But the remarks urging the editor of Bild to provide favorable coverage to a political party touched a nerve in journalistic circles especially because Mr. Döpfner has described himself as a supporter of independent news media.
Marion Horn, who was acting editor in chief at Bild until Monday, insisted over the weekend in a commentary that "I don't let anyone tell me what Bild has to write." She defended the integrity and independence of her reporters, and she called on Mr. Döpfner to apologize.
He did so the next day in a commentary published in Bild in which he also lamented that he had intended his messages to stay private. "I apologize for offending, unsettling or hurting many with my words," he wrote.
Mr. Döpfner owns a 21.9 percent stake in the company, but he also holds the voting rights of Frieda Springer, who is the widow of the company's founder, Axel Springer, and holds 22.5 percent. She tapped Mr. Döpfner to become chief executive in 2002 after surviving challenges to her leadership by others in the Springer family.
Under Mr. Döpfner, Axel Springer has expanded from a traditional German publisher to an international digital media company. In 2015, the company bought Business Insider (now called Insider) for $ 442 million. It purchased Politico in 2021 for more than $ 1 billion, with the aim of becoming what Mr. Döpfner described as "the leading digital publisher in the democratic world."
The New York private equity company KKR owns a 35.6 percent stake it bought in 2019 to take the company private, allowing Axel Springer to expand more rapidly outside Germany and focus its energy on pushing into digital media. Axel Springer announced last month that it would begin phasing out its printed newspapers in the next years. In addition to Bild, a splashy tabloid that is Germany's biggest-circulation newspaper, it also owns Die Welt, a centrist broadsheet.
KKR declined to comment on whether the latest revelations had damaged its trust in Mr. Döpfner. Philipp Freise, who helps lead the firm's European private equity business and is also a member of Axel Springer's supervisory board, praised Mr. Döpfner last week as "a great visionary" in an interview on the "OMR" podcast.
Before he became chief executive, Mr. Döpfner worked as a journalist for four decades. In his column on Sunday, he pointed to the body of his published work, insisting that it better reflected his thoughts than "bits of texts and conversations" that had been "ripped out of context."
Mr. Döpfner's remarks, in which he said all East Germans were "either Communists or fascists," led some people, including the government's point person for the region, to call for his resignation. He had made similar remarks in another message seen by The New York Times in 2021.
Die Zeit also cited two remarks in which Mr. Döpfner urged an editor at Bild to provide coverage favorable to the Free Democrats party in the days before the 2021 federal election. Each instance was followed by a favorable article about the party. The party is now a member of the three-party coalition government led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
Other media outlets pointed to Axel Springer's code of conduct, which states that "management leaves editorial decisions completely to the editorial staff and does not interfere in these decisions."
Last year, The Financial Times reported that Mr. Döpfner had failed to disclose that he was the owner of a building in Berlin rented by Adidas, all the while Bild had published more than 20 articles chiding the sportswear maker for its decision to stop paying rent during the first pandemic lockdown. Other retailers with similar policies received far less coverage by the paper.
Mr. Döpfner defended his actions, saying that his editors acted independently of his point of view.
"In the end, the editors in chief always decide -- often in the sharpest contrast to my personal opinion -- what they publish, and they are responsible for it," Mr. Döpfner said.
Photograph Mathias Döpfner insulted East Germans and urged an editor to favorably cover a political party. (POOL PHOTO BY BERND VON JUTRCZENKA) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Digital broadcasting; Editors; Political parties; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Equity stake

Location: New York; United States--US; Germany

Company / organization: Name: Business Insider; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/17 /world/europe/axel-springer-ceo-apologizes-for-remarks.html

Title: C.E.O. of German Media Giant Axel Springer Apologizes for Remarks Exposed by Rival Paper:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802215880

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/c-e-o-german-media-giant-axel-springer-apologizes/docview/2802215880/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2801857015/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Is it possible to wear shorts to work? I have seen chic Parisiennes of all ages wearing "city" walking shorts with and without a cuff, creased and uncreased. I think they would look good in an office setting as well as the street, but I also worry that they don't seem professional. Can you be taken seriously in shorts? If so, what shorts are best?
-- Susan, Pittsburgh With global warming comes the revision of all sorts of dress codes. When it is very hot, the idea of wearing long pants becomes increasingly unappealing, for both men and women. Yet, the idea of shorts in the office can also seem ... well, unseemly.
After all, the term itself is short for "short pants," which were historically what children wore to delineate their immature status. In adulthood, shorts are largely associated with out-of-office time, be it sports, summer or just schlubbing around the house. When I hear "shorts," I think of high school months spent in denim cutoffs, of D.I.Y. house-painting and garden planting in cargo styles, of hiking and running. I also think of Bermuda shorts, culottes and the preppy tradition. What I do not think of that much, I admit, is work.
There is a reason, when we are talking about people in charge, we say, "They wear the pants." No one says, "They wear the shorts."
Yet shorts are increasingly a fashion item. This season they made appearances on the runways of Givenchy (distressed, cargo), Tom Ford (very short and athletic), Gucci (long, floral), Hermès (tailored, wide) and Isabel Marant (festival-y).
When it comes to women's wear, there is no practical difference between long shorts and a shorter skirt. The difference lies in conventions and the subconscious associations colleagues may have with shorts. Which means that the issue is really less can you wear shorts to work than how do you wear shorts to work.
The stylist Tina Chai said to stay away from denim, distressing and anything hovering above mid-thigh and to opt instead for what she calls "set dressing" (effectively a synonym for "suit"). Think about "pairing shorts with a men's wear tropical wool blazer or a colorful tweed jacket," she said.
Jackets offset the associations about shorts for both women and men, though men also have to overcome prejudices about the male leg, which in its bare and hairy state is often considered inappropriate for the office.
The designer Thom Browne has worn tailored gray shorts for more than a decade. He even wore them during the recent Adidas court case -- which he won. So draw your own conclusions. Peter Do, a designer who showed shorts for both men and women on his spring 2023 runway, said: "They can definitely be worn in the workplace, but I would suggest a pair that are at least knee length, if not right above the knee. I would go with sharply tailored shorts, perhaps with front pleats, and straight or slightly A-line -- nothing too wide."
All of which is to say: Yes, you can wear shorts in the workplace but not without some consideration aforethought. You may ultimately be exposing more than just your knees.
Every week in the Open Thread newsletter, The Times's chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, answers a reader's fashion-related question. Sign up at nytimes.com/newsletters.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Women

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/16/pageoneplus/17a3_help_openthead.html

Title: Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801857015

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2801857015/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Blast Forces Japan Leader To Evacuate Site of Speech: [Correction]

Author: Rich, Motoko; Hida, Hikari; Ives, Mike

Publication info: Rich, Motoko; Hida, Hikari; Ives, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/blast-forces-japan-leader-evacuate-site-speech/docview/2801437351/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Prime Minister Fumio Kishida was about to give a campaign speech in the western Japanese city of Wakayama when a loud explosion was heard.
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan was safely evacuated on Saturday from a site where he had been scheduled to give a speech and shortly before an explosion was heard, according to the police.
An object was thrown, prompting Mr. Kishida's removal. By the time of the explosion, the prime minister had been taken away from the area, according to the police department in Wakayama, the western Japanese city where the episode happened. It is not clear what the explosive object was, but it did not result in serious damage or injuries, the police said.
Video footage posted by the national broadcaster, NHK, on Saturday showed police officers, a security detail and what appeared to be members of the public tackling the man the police say is the suspect. The man, who was carrying a gray and black backpack and wearing beige pants, black Adidas sneakers and a blue jacket, appeared to struggle as the police and security officers half-dragged, half-carried him from the scene.
NHK footage showed billowing white smoke rising from a site close to a fishing port where supporters had gathered late Saturday morning to wait for the prime minister to arrive.
Mr. Kishida had been scheduled to give a stump speech in support of a lower house candidate from the ruling Liberal Democratic Party who is running in a special election.
A spokesman for the police department in Wakayama said on Saturday that a suspect had been arrested in the case and was in custody. According to a driver's license that the police believe belongs to the suspect, he is 24 years old and surnamed Kimura.
Less than a year ago, former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was fatally shot during a campaign speech in Nara, a city not far from Wakayama, unsettling a society where gun violence is rare.
Separate video footage on NHK showed the suspect on Saturday holding a slender gray canister shortly before a loud explosive sound was heard.
Mr. Kishida was briefly taken to a police station in Wakayama after he was evacuated from the scene of the explosion. Speaking outside the city's main train station just over an hour after the episode, he apologized to supporters and vowed to keep on campaigning.
"We are holding an important election for our country, and we must work together with all of you to see it through," he said.
Toshimitsu Motegi, secretary general of the Liberal Democrats, said it was "an outrage" that the episode had occurred "during the election period, which is the foundation of democracy." Mr. Abe was killed two days before a general election last July.
On Twitter, the Liberal Democrats and Mr. Kishida said he would continue to give campaign speeches as scheduled later in the day.
Mr. Kishida's vow to carry on with his schedule echoed a former Japanese emperor, Akihito, who did not suspend events during a visit as crown prince to Okinawa in 1975 after a protester had thrown a Molotov cocktail at the emperor and his wife.
On Saturday, social media lit up with video footage of a man in a long-sleeve red shirt and black-and-white snowflake print vest who appeared to put the suspect in a headlock before police or security officers could get to him. "The old men at the fishing port are more agile and helpful than the Special Police," one commenter wrote.
Political analysts said that Japan's sense of public safety could be shaken by more episodes like this one, coming relatively soon after the assassination of Mr. Abe. "Many people believe Japanese society is very safe," said Tsuneo Watanabe, senior research fellow at the Sasakawa Peace Foundation in Tokyo. "But I think that will not be taken for granted."
In Japan, political campaigns tend to be relatively loose events where members of the public are allowed to get close to candidates.
But if such episodes continue to occur, security officials might have to become more vigilant and wary of copycats, said Robert Dujarric, co-director of the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at the Tokyo campus of Temple University.
"There are always in any country people who have personal gripes or psychological issues or belong to a political group that is fanatically opposed to something the politician does," Mr. Dujarric said. "And once it's been done once, you say, 'Why don't we try it again?' "
Photograph Fumio Kishida This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Assassinations & assassination attempts; Explosions; Prime ministers; Elections

Location: Japan

People: Kishida, Fumio

Company / organization: Name: NHK; NAICS: 516120

Title: Blast Forces Japan Leader To Evacuate Site of Speech:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437351

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/blast-forces-japan-leader-evacuate-site-speech/docview/2801437351/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Air' Floats an Idea: Share the Profits: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Tracy, Marc

Publication info: Tracy, Marc. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/air-floats-idea-share-profits/docview/2799965174/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The movie's focus (how Michael Jordan got a cut from Nike) reflects what its filmmakers, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, are trying to do in their new venture.
There can only be so much suspense in "Air." The new drama depicts Nike's quest in 1984 to sign the then-rookie Michael Jordan to an endorsement deal, and everyone knows that in the end, Nike will get its man. Some viewers are doubtlessly wearing Swoosh-adorned Air Jordan sneakers.
Yet the filmmakers conjure a gripping moment late in the film. Through wit and grit, Sonny Vaccaro, the Nike executive played by Matt Damon, has secured Jordan's agreement -- until Jordan's mother, Deloris Jordan (Viola Davis), makes an additional demand: Her son must receive not only a $ 250,000 fee, but also a cut from every sneaker sold.
"A shoe is just a shoe," she tells Vaccaro, "until my son steps into it."
This seemingly small nuance, more than just a plot development, embodies one of the central themes of "Air": the value a talented individual brings to a business and the importance of compensating him for what he is worth.
"He created that value," Damon, also a producer, said in an interview. "Yeah, they had some great advertising campaigns, right? But Michael Jordan going out and being the best player every single night is what put the meaning in the shoe."
The lesson of "Air" can also be applied to the new company that produced it. Artists Equity was co-founded by Damon and his longtime friend Ben Affleck to make movies that earn more money for their artistic talent. "Air" -- directed by Affleck, who also plays the Nike co-founder and chief executive Phil Knight -- was deliberately the company's first project.
"Thematically it was on point in terms of what we're trying to do with the new company," Damon said of "Air."
He elaborated: "Sonny feels, like we do, that the people who are putting the value in something deserve to share in the revenue and be compensated, and rather than it being extractive, it's a partnership."
The message of "Air" might help explain why it has been embraced by critics and audiences. It turns Michael Jordan from an extraordinary athlete into a stand-in for the viewer. "He's not the underdog compared to the everyday person, but he's still someone people can relate to," said Thilo Kunkel, a professor at Temple University who studies athlete branding.
In real life, it was Nike that initially offered Jordan a piece of the business -- it was "the bait on the fishing hook," Vaccaro said in an interview. Nike had been desperate to outbid its larger rivals, Converse and Adidas, to secure the rights to a player it predicted would be a generational talent.
The film closely reflects reality, Vaccaro added, in portraying this proposal as important to Deloris Jordan, the central decision maker in her household. "She reminded me 10 times before you saw it in the last scene," Vaccaro said, adding, "The only reason that we survived and we won was because of him having a piece."
Vaccaro's career in basketball and the shoe business is rich enough that years ago there was very nearly a movie made about a completely different period of his life (he was to have been played by James Gandolfini). Vaccaro started organizing high school all-star games in the 1960s. At Nike he not only helped sign Jordan, he also pioneered contracts with college basketball coaches that put Nike sneakers on their players, as N.C.A.A. rules barred the athletes from making their own deals. In the '90s, he signed Kobe Bryant to Adidas.
But the real-life Vaccaro took to heart the moral of "Air" during his late-career shift from shoe-company veteran to gadfly who helped college athletes win the right to sign endorsement deals of their own.
In 2007, he quit the sneaker business (his résumé also included Reebok) and became an advocate for college players' rights. For lawyers looking to sue over colleges' profiting from their players' names, images and likenesses, Vaccaro helped find an ideal lead plaintiff: the former U.C.L.A. basketball star Ed O'Bannon. The lawsuit filed in 2009 and known as the O'Bannon case, along with other lawsuits, state legislation and a sea change in public opinion -- itself cultivated partly by Vaccaro, an easy and colorful quote for journalists -- led the N.C.A.A. in 2021 to begin letting college athletes sign endorsement deals.
"To allow me to get to Eddie O'Bannon -- it never would have happened without me being with Michael Jordan," Vaccaro said.
Jay Bilas, an ESPN college basketball commentator, perceives a connection between Jordan's securing a cut of his Nike business and Vaccaro's lobbying to get college athletes more of the profits they help generate.
"It's the same analysis," said Bilas, who played basketball for Duke University when Jordan was on the archrival University of North Carolina Tar Heels. "Whether it's an hourly worker negotiating with McDonald's or doctors and nurses negotiating with a hospital system, what's always true is that the business is going to make substantially more than the worker. Everyone in America, in a free-market system, deserves the right to negotiate for their fair value."
At the film premiere last month, Damon said, the audience "erupted into applause" at the end when onscreen text described Vaccaro's involvement in the O'Bannon case.
"It was thematically right for the movie, but it was also perfect for Sonny," Damon said.
"The obvious thing he would go do was go fight for them," Damon added. "It's in keeping with how you see him throughout the movie, genuinely caring -- it's not just business for him. This is his passion and it's his love. There's a morality that grounds it."
Damon is engaged in a similar enterprise. He and Affleck substituted filmmakers for athletes into Vaccaro's equation, and, backed by $ 100 million from a private investment firm, started Artists Equity last year to restore to filmmakers a share of projects' profits that had disappeared as Hollywood moved toward streaming and studios scaled back on the most generous deals.
In Artists Equity's view, turning filmmakers -- from stars like Damon and Davis to directors, cinematographers and editors -- into something less like employees and more like financial partners will give them an incentive to make better movies more efficiently.
"'Profit participation' is the key phrase," said Jason Squire, a professor emeritus at the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts. "If they fulfill this, it'll be a wonderful, refreshed model for this part of the business."
For its part, "Air" appears to be a financial success. The film was acquired by Amazon for $ 130 million. It opened last Wednesday exclusively in theaters (in advance of becoming available on Amazon's streaming platform), and exceeded expectations with a box office take that hovered around $ 20 million.
Affleck's argument for the model could have come from Deloris Jordan. "This business has never incentivized and made congruent the interest of the artist and the people financing," he said at a New York Times conference last year. Referring to his wife, the pop star and actress Jennifer Lopez, he added, "The people who principally create value on the sales side and on the audience eyeball side are these artists who have worked their entire careers -- like my wife -- building a name, a reputation, a connection with fans that has real value. And oftentimes that value isn't reflected in the deals."
There is an irony in the argument about people getting shortchanged by the old way of doing business. Michael Jordan, Matt Damon -- these are some of the more enviable people on Earth.
But anyone who has shelled out for a pair of Air Jordans or watched the Chicago Bulls win six world championships in the 1990s can testify that Jordan deserved a good deal of credit.
And in ceding a small percentage of the Air Jordan profits to its namesake, Nike did not exactly suffer. Along with the applause-generating reveal about Vaccaro's successful advocacy on behalf of college athletes, the viewer of "Air" learns at the end of the film that Nike went on to buy its former rival Converse on its way to becoming the juggernaut it is today. Last year, Nike said Jordan Brand brought in $ 5 billion in annual revenue.
"Ben says it as the Phil Knight character," Damon said. "He goes, 'If this kid makes a bunch of money on this deal, it will be the best thing that ever happened for Nike.' Right? It was really a deal that favored everybody. Absolutely everybody won."
Photograph Sonny Vaccaro, far left, the former Nike marketer who helped land Michael Jordan for the company, with Matt Damon, who plays Vaccaro in "Air." (C1); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIEL FISHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); From left, Matthew Maher, Matt Damon and Jason Bateman in "Air," a film directed by Ben Affleck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANA CARBALLOSA/AMAZON STUDIOS) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C5.

ERIC Subject: Artists; Photography; Team Sports; Public Opinion

Subject: Artists; Athletic shoes; Motion picture directors & producers; Student athletes; Morality; College basketball; High school basketball

People: Affleck, Ben; Jordan, Michael; Knight, Phil; Damon, Matt

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/12/movies/air-movie-sonny-vaccaro-matt-damon.html

Title: 'Air' Floats an Idea: Share the Profits:   [The Arts/C ultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 13, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 27999651 74

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/air-floats-idea-share-profits/docview/2799965174/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 13, 2023

Last updated: 2024-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Ball Here, A Gala There: [Style Desk]

Author: Lee, Denny

Publication info: Lee, Denny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ball-here-gala-there/docview/2798020604/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Galas were held for the New York Academy of Art and the Fashion Scholarship Fund.
It may be the best art deal in town. The New York Academy of Art held its annual Tribeca Ball on April 4, where established collectors got to roam the art studios upstairs and buy work from 100 current students. Afterward, guests sat down for a filet mignon dinner that honored Amy Sherald, the figurative painter best known for her official portrait of Michelle Obama.
Student works were also on display at the Fashion Scholarship Fund's annual gala, held the night before at the Glasshouse. The fund, which awards more than $ 1 million to young fashion students from diverse backgrounds, honored Anna Wintour and Emma Grede, a founding partner at Skims. Ms. Wintour dedicated her award to Virgil Abloh.
Tribeca Ball
'To be in the position to lend a hand to the next generation of artists means I'm doing something right.' -- Amy Sherald at the Tribeca Ball.
Fashion Scholarship Fund Gala
'I'd never met someone who approached new projects with such evident joy.' -- Anna Wintour said of Virgil Abloh.
The Most Dressed features great outfits from up, down and all around town.
Photograph Coco Rocha, in Sukeina, at the Fashion Scholarship Fund gala.; Ken Yankel in an outfit of their design at the fashion fund gala.; At the Tribeca Ball, from left: Brooke Shields, in Marc Jacobs; David Kratz, the president of the New York Academy of Art; and Naomi Watts, in Dries Van Noten.; Rolanda Evelyn, left, in Proenza Schouler, and Jasmine Bacchus, in a thrift store suit, at the fashion fund gala.; Olivia Cheng, in a dress by her brand, at the fashion fund gala.; Katie Warner, left, and Lauren Gonzalez at the fashion fund gala.; Anna Wintour at the fashion fund gala, where she was honored.; Manuel Hernandez Sanchez, in a Golf Wang jacket, at the Tribeca Ball.; Shammiel FleischerAmoros at the Tribeca Ball.; Chinedu Victor, an academy student, at the Tribeca Ball.; Anna McGregor, in Margiela, at the fashion fund gala.; Vanessa Bump, in Jeremy Scott x Adidas, at the fashion fund gala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOLLY FAIBYSHEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (FASHION SCHOLARSHIP FUND GALA); REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (TRIBECA BALL)) This article appeared in print on page ST9.

Subject: Awards & honors

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Abloh, Virgil; Sherald, Amy

Company / organization: Name: New York Academy of Art; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/09/style/brooke-shields-party-dress-galas.html

Title: A Ball Here, A Gala There:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 9, 2023

column: The Most Dressed

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2798020604

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ball-here-gala-there/docview/2798020604/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Custom High Tops and Game Changers: [Review]

Author: Manohla Dargis

Publication info: Manohla Dargis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/custom-high-tops-game-changers/docview/2795128599/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In Ben Affleck's enjoyable movie, Matt Damon stars as the Nike exec who's trying to sign a young Michael Jordan. But first he must contend with Viola Davis.
It's ridiculous how entertaining "Air" is given that it's about shoes, even if it works overtime to persuade you that it's also about other, nobler truths, too. Mind you, the pair that Nike presented to Michael Jordan in a 1984 meeting were custom. The company wanted badly to sign Jordan to an endorsement deal, so it created black-and-red high tops with a white midsole and a multimillion-dollar sweetener. Jordan may have preferred Adidas, but he soon laced up for Nike, changing footwear, sports stardom and athletic marketing forever.
Directed by Ben Affleck, the frothily amusing and very eager-to-please "Air" tells the oft-told tale of how Nike signed Jordan to a contract that made each astonishingly rich. Yet while the man and the money are inevitably central to this deeply American story, both remain strategically obscured. Jordan (Damian Young) is shown only in teasing partial view, his face concealed (you see the real Jordan in archival images), an initially distracting decision that grows less gimmicky and seems more natural as the story shifts focus toward virtuous, less fungible human values like love, genius, grit, perseverance, righteousness and faith.
The movie's principal true believer is Sonny Vaccaro (Matt Damon). (Like most of the main characters, Vaccaro is based on, and named after, a real person, though the actual Sonny is far juicier than he is here.) A vision in beige with a beeper attached to his belt, his belly spilling over that same belt, Sonny is a familiar, cartoonish sad-sack, a figure right out of Mike Judge's "Office Space." He's divorced and still unattached, and his workaholic habits don't bode well for romance. He routinely buys his nightly dinner at the local convenience store, making small talk with the clerk, then eats alone while staring at the TV or, in his case, side-by-side sets.
The story heats up when Sonny and his colleagues at Nike start looking at the latest N.B.A. draftees to sign. Nike doesn't want to spend much, so most of its execs are scouring the lower picks. But Sonny has a gift for spotting talent, and he's aiming high: Jordan, the 21-year-old who's left college early and whose moves he studies on smeary tape. Not everyone can read the future or see talent like Sonny, and much of the movie involves his wooing of two notably different dealmakers and breakers: Phil Knight (an amusing Affleck), Nike's preening co-founder and chief executive, and Jordan's mother, Deloris (a sensational Viola Davis).
Written by Alex Convery, "Air" nicely hits the sweet spot between light comedy and lighter drama that's tough to get right. It's funny, but its generous laughs tend to be low-key and are more often dependent on their delivery than on the actual writing. Damon is crucial to selling the humor. He's packed on weight for the role, and he gives the character a stolid, tamped-down physicality, but he also lets you see the eddies of anger and frustration raging under the character's skin. Sonny is put-upon and dejected, but he's quick witted and doesn't suffer fools (or Knight), and his patience has already been worn perilously thin when the story opens.
Waiting for Sonny to explode helps build the comic tension; watching him try to sign Jordan creates the relatively less punchy drama. Some of the juiciest laughs come from Sonny's interactions with the gnomic Knight, a showboating supporting role that Affleck embraces with a sly, vacant deadpan and tragically unhip styling. Affleck knows how to steal scenes, and he pilfers a few, but he's a very good and generous director of actors. He's loaded up "Air" with terrific supporting players, including Jason Bateman and Chris Tucker, who, as Nike suits, add distinct flavor and some brilliant contrapuntal timing to the mix.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Along with Damon, the movie's other M.V.P. is Davis, whose beautifully modulated performance helps deepen the story and expand its emotional palette. Davis is often called on to go big in her roles, to let the emotion and snot flow, so it's a pleasure watching her hold back and change it up with lapidary, minimalist precision. Like Damon, she gives her character a palpable physical solidity, but Deloris is entirely comfortable, at ease in her body and in the world, and she's in charge. You only read her face when she wants. Michael is the star of this world, but it's Deloris who exerts the family's greatest gravitational force.
Affleck handles all the story's many parts gracefully, mostly by keeping them continually spinning. There's a lot of walking-and-talking both in offices and in halls, which never gets dull largely because of who's doing the walking and talking. What they're chattering about is critical, even if the movie has distilled the hard-charging, world-shifting, sometimes (oftentimes!) ethically challenged business of professional sports into a group of really nice, funny, well-meaning personalities and one not-as-nice agent, David Falk (Chris Messina), a trash-talking, phone-smashing, profane motormouth right out of HBO's "Entourage."
"Air" is enjoyably facile and light as a feather, though sometimes touching, never more so than in a late, deftly handled face-off between Sonny and Deloris that brings the larger racial stakes of the landmark deal into crystalline focus. Here, as elsewhere, the movie deviates from the historical record -- including the sometimes divergent, widely published accounts -- to make a richer, heftier, more meaningful story. As Affleck cuts back and forth between Sonny and Deloris, filling the screen with close-ups that let you track every rivulet of emotion, it's hard not to be moved, including by the sight of these exceptional actors who, with heart and talent, ever so briefly turn a story about capitalism into a referendum on the soul of a nation.
Air
Rated R for language. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. In theaters.
Air Rated R for language. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. In theaters.
Photograph Matt Damon and Viola Davis, who plays Michael Jordan's formidable mother, in "Air." (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMAZON STUDIOS) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Motion pictures

People: Affleck, Ben; Davis, Viola; Damon, Matt; Jordan, Michael

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/04/movies/air-movie-review.html

Title: Custom High Tops and Game Changers:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 5, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2795128599

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/custom-high-tops-game-changers/docview/2795128599/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2792241889/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: COMPANIES
Adidas Ends Opposition To B.L.M. Trademark
Two days after Adidas objected to a trademark application by the advocacy group Black Lives Matter for a logo featuring three parallel stripes, right, the German sportswear company said that it would withdraw its opposition. Adidas challenged the trademark application in a filing with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Monday. On Wednesday, the company said in an emailed statement that it would withdraw its opposition "as soon as possible." In the filing on Monday, Adidas said that it opposed the Black Lives Matter application because it showed a trademark that "incorporates three stripes in a manner that is confusingly similar" to the company's familiar three-stripe logo "in appearance and overall commercial impression." The Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation filed the trademark application for a yellow three-stripe logo design in November 2020. The group is one of several organizations associated with the wider Black Lives Matter movement, which emerged in 2013 after George Zimmerman was acquitted of killing Trayvon Martin, a Black teenager. The foundation did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In its statement, Adidas did not say why it was reversing its opposition to the trademark application. In September 2022, the window opened for individuals and groups to file their opposition to the foundation's trademark application. Adidas repeatedly sought to extend the window before submitting its notice of opposition on Monday, according to the filing. Adidas said that it had been using a three-stripe mark on footwear since at least 1952 and that the design had been used in its partnerships with professional athletes. In the filing, the company said that the public understood that the three-stripe mark "distinguishes and identifies Adidas's merchandise." AMANDA HOLPUCH
INTERNATIONAL
Group Criticizes Uganda Over Anti-L.G.B.T.Q. Bill
A business group including corporate giants like Google says it opposes Uganda's anti-L.G.B.T.Q. legislation, calling it "a concern for global businesses and investors operating or planning to invest" in the East African country. The legislation, which prescribes the death penalty or life imprisonment for some homosexual offenses, would hurt Uganda's economy, the Open For Business coalition said in a statement Wednesday. "Diversity and inclusion are core principles of our coalition partners in the conduct of their businesses," the statement said. The legislation, if signed into law by President Yoweri Museveni, "would undermine Uganda's attractiveness as a place to do business and invest," it said. In addition to Google, the Open For Business coalition includes companies such as Microsoft, MasterCard, HSBC and Facebook's owner, Meta. Uganda's legislature last week passed the anti-homosexuality bill. The legislation is now with Mr. Museveni, who can sign it into law or return it back to the parliamentary speaker with proposed changes. The bill has wide support in Uganda, including among church leaders. It was introduced last month by an opposition lawmaker who said his goal was to punish the "promotion, recruitment and funding" of L.G.B.T.Q. activities in the country. Only two of 389 legislators present to vote opposed the bill. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Amanda Holpuch and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY BLACK LIVES MATTER) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Legislation; Logos; Trademarks; Black Lives Matter movement

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Trademarks

Location: Uganda

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Title: The Digest:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2792241889

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2792241889/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sin City Spring Break: Once 'Unimaginable,' Now N.C.A.A. Reality: [Sports Desk]

Author: Witz, Billy

Publication info: Witz, Billy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sin-city-spring-break-once-unimaginable-now-n-c/docview/2789590974/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Las Vegas will host a men's basketball regional this week, the men's Final Four in 2028 and numerous other college championships -- all prompted by changes in how the N.C.A.A. has viewed the city.
LAS VEGAS -- There was a time when the N.C.A.A. would have played men's basketball tournament games on the moon before placing its marquee event in Las Vegas.
Those were the days when point-shaving scandals at Arizona State, Tulane and Boston College were not ancient history and when casinos were so jittery about perceived ties to organized crime that they declined to set betting lines involving any teams from Nevada.
It probably did not help that the N.C.A.A. had a long, litigious feud with Jerry Tarkanian, the Nevada-Las Vegas coach -- or that several of Tarkanian's players once turned up in a front-page newspaper photo drinking beer in a hot tub with a twice-convicted sports fixer.
So, even though the country's gambling mecca is no longer a pro sports pariah -- hockey's Golden Knights and football's Raiders are anchored in the city, baseball's Oakland Athletics have long flirted with a move, and the Super Bowl will be arriving next February -- it is noteworthy that the N.C.A.A. has planted a flag in Las Vegas, too.
Las Vegas will host a N.C.A.A. basketball regional for the first time this week. The West regional semifinals, which begin Thursday with U.C.L.A. playing Gonzaga and Arkansas facing Connecticut, will also serve as a dry run for the 2028 men's Final Four, which was awarded to Las Vegas in November.
That these three games are being played in the copper-skinned T-Mobile Arena in the heart of the Strip signals the depth of the détente.
"It was unimaginable at one time," said Michael Green, a son of a casino dealer who graduated from U.N.L.V. and is now a history professor at the school. "Even as things changed, a lot of people figured the N.C.A.A. was never coming near us. For people who have been here for a long time and had skin in the game, going back to the '70s or at least the '80s, this is vindication."
If Las Vegas is a different place now, with an ever-expanding Strip and marketing pitches that tilt as much to family fun as gambling junkets, the N.C.A.A.'s arrival is not so much about how the city has changed as it is about a shift in attitudes -- and the law -- about sports gambling.
N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver signaled that turn in 2014 when he became the first leader of a major American sports league to call for changes to the federal law that effectively banned sports gambling in most states. Later that year, the N.H.L. announced it would put an expansion franchise in Las Vegas.
When the Supreme Court struck down a federal law in 2018, leaving sports gambling in the hands of states, the gold rush was on in an exploding market.
Soon, major leagues (and their teams) cut deals with sports books, tapping into a new revenue source. They also believed that gambling would help fan engagement and television ratings, which had been flagging. Some universities, like Colorado and Michigan State, struck agreements with casinos, which paid millions for the ability to market sports betting to their fans and students.
No sports organizations had been more leery of Las Vegas than the N.F.L. and the N.C.A.A.
But the N.F.L., which had once refused to sell Super Bowl ad time to Las Vegas tourism efforts, was now capable of reaping more than $ 500 million annually, according to a Nielsen study commissioned by the American Gaming Association shortly after the Supreme Court decision. By 2020, the Raiders arrived, followed by the N.F.L. draft in 2022 and, next year, the Super Bowl.
The N.C.A.A.'s embrace of Las Vegas, if not as lucrative -- there is little beyond the rights fees included in the bid -- is just as fulsome as the N.F.L.'s.
It has moved this year's National Invitation Tournament semifinals and finals from Madison Square Garden to Las Vegas, and awarded the 2026 men's hockey championship to the city. Las Vegas will also host Division II and Division III golf championships and Division III soccer championships in the coming years, as well as the Division I bowling championship this April.
"There's no question that the landscape changed significantly with the Supreme Court decision," said Dan Gavitt, the N.C.A.A.'s senior vice president of basketball, noting that 33 states and the District of Columbia now offer sports betting. "It's remarkable how quickly it has all unfolded once that domino fell."
In 2020, the N.C.A.A.'s board of governors lifted a ban on holding championship events in Las Vegas. That year, the tournament committee awarded a 2023 men's regional to Las Vegas, a decision Gavitt said was based in part on the experiences of five conferences that hold their postseason tournaments in Las Vegas and its suburbs: the Pac-12, Mountain West, West Coast, Western Athletic and Big West.
When the Pac-12 moved its tournament to Las Vegas in 2013, as a way to boost sagging attendance, it carefully mapped out a route, through a side door, down a service elevator, through the kitchen and onto a bus, so teams could go from their hotel rooms at the massive MGM Grand to its Grand Garden Arena without having to pass through the casino floor.
Those logistical gymnastics were sometimes for naught: After games, some players just walked back through the casino, stopping to sign autographs, pose for photos or soak in the adulation of cheering fans.
"They loved doing that walk," said Gloria Nevarez, the Mountain West commissioner who ran the tournament for the Pac-12 when it moved to Las Vegas. "It was a rock star moment."
The N.C.A.A. found in a 2016 survey, before the spread of sports betting nationwide, that 24 percent of men's athletes and 5 percent of women's athletes had bet on sports, "violating N.C.A.A. bylaws," the study said. There can be severe consequences for violating the N.C.A.A.'s ban on sports betting. Last year, the N.C.A.A. suspended Virginia Tech linebacker Alan Tisdale for six games after he legally bet $ 400 on N.B.A. games, which he told his coach about following a presentation on N.C.A.A. rules.
This week, all four teams are staying at MGM properties that have casinos, according to a tournament official.
The softening of the N.C.A.A.'s hard line began about 15 years ago, when a team of Las Vegas business leaders traveled to Indianapolis to meet with N.C.A.A. officials. Corporate casinos wanted to be taken seriously on Wall Street -- and sports was viewed as a way to do win over skeptics, who might have been uneasy that the mayor at the time was Oscar Goodman, who made his name as a mob lawyer and had represented Richie Perry, the gambler nicknamed The Fixer who had been in the hot tub with the U.N.L.V. players.
The group's message to N.C.A.A. officials: we're on the same side.
"Integrity of the games is our product," said Jay Kornegay, the executive vice president of race and sports book operations at the Westgate, who was among the executives who traveled to Indianapolis. "If we don't have the integrity of the product, our product goes down the drain. If there's a game that's compromised somehow, some way, it's not only the bettor that gets shortchanged, it's the operator."
By then, basketball and Las Vegas were deeply intertwined, beginning with the grass-roots basketball world, whose capital might as well have been Las Vegas.
Beginning in the early 1990s, around the time Tarkanian was forced out of U.N.L.V. after the publication of the photo of his players with Perry, Adidas began hosting the annual Big Time tournament. The event drew hundreds of teams and many of the best high school players around the country to Las Vegas for a week during July. College coaches flocked from everywhere to evaluate them.
The tournament was the brainchild of Sonny Vaccaro, who worked for Nike when he made Tarkanian the first coach to have an endorsement contract with the shoe company. Vaccaro said the N.C.A.A. told him high school players would jeopardize their college eligibility if they stayed in casinos.
"The first year, they made us go to a Motel 6 off the Strip," said Vaccaro, who later urged the former U.C.L.A. basketball player Ed O'Bannon to sue the N.C.A.A. in what became a landmark victory in the fight to allow college athletes to profit from endorsements. "The N.C.A.A. picked on Jerry Tarkanian vicariously through Sonny Vaccaro and anything connected with us over the years."
Part of that stemmed from Vaccaro's unabashed embrace of the Las Vegas gambling community. His brother, Jimmy, is a bookmaker who has been inducted into the Sports Betting Hall of Fame.
"They always painted Las Vegas as this bad element," Sonny Vaccaro said.
It's not as if nothing bad ever happened in Las Vegas. The F.B.I. staged a sting operation in 2017 by placing a hidden camera in an executive suite at The Cosmopolitan, one of the more posh hotels on the Strip, to record college basketball coaches discussing or accepting bribes.
Though the case ended up doing little to clean up the sport, the N.C.A.A. reacted with several measures to restrict the influence of shoe companies like Nike, Adidas and Under Armour, which invest heavily in their grass-roots basketball operations.
The N.C.A.A. tightened the recruiting calendar, allowing for more events with high school teams to be held when coaches can evaluate them in person. It also started its own summer evaluation camps, which began in 2020 and will resume this summer for the first time since the coronavirus pandemic started. The effect: there are fewer recruiting showcases in Las Vegas.
Gavitt said there was no concerted effort to direct recruiting showcases away from Las Vegas, noting that U.S.A. Basketball and independent operators hold N.C.A.A.-certified camps or tournaments in the city. But one of those operators, Dinos Trigonis, who runs the Pangos Top 100 Camp that is popular with N.B.A. scouts, said there are fewer events in the city "because they thought Vegas was inherently corrupt or poisonous, on and off the court."
As Las Vegas began to be viewed differently, the city's emergence as a professional sports town came at a propitious moment. When the Seattle Kingdome was demolished in 2000, there were no domed football stadiums big enough to host a Final Four west of San Antonio until State Farm Stadium, the home of the Arizona Cardinals, opened in 2006. It hosted a Final Four in 2017 and will again next year.
There is only one other fully indoor stadium in a western U.S. state that is suitable as is for a Final Four: the home of the Las Vegas Raiders. (SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, Calif., has a roof but is not closed to the elements, which led some fans to get rained on when Georgia played Texas Christian in the college football championship earlier this year.)
"We want the games to be national and have West Coast representation," said Peter Roby, a former athletic director at Northeastern and former basketball coach at Harvard, who served on the men's basketball tournament committee from 2011 to 2017. "You can also do more in a warm weather environment, whether it's sponsors, fans or teams."
Roby, who at Dartmouth played against the Boston College players who were involved in a point-shaving scheme in the late 1970s, said that during his time on the committee, there were discussions from N.C.A.A. governing boards about what would happen if the federal law restricting sports gambling was overturned and more states made it legal.
For example, if Pennsylvania made sports gambling legal -- which it did, quickly becoming one of the highest-grossing state operations -- would the N.C.A.A. pull tournament games from Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, which have been regular stops?
Ultimately, if the N.C.A.A. hadn't lifted its ban on holding championship events in states where gambling is legal, it would not have been able to award a regional site to New York or Las Vegas this year, and would have had to find four new sites for first-round games that were played in states with legal sports betting.
One of those sites was Denver, where Gonzaga's Hunter Sallis went to the free-throw line Sunday night with 0.7 seconds remaining and his team safely ahead of T.C.U. by 4 points. Sallis made both free throws to extend the lead to 6.
T.C.U.'s Shahada Wells tossed a lazy inbounds pass toward Damion Baugh, who let the ball bounce as Gonzaga players began to shake hands with his T.C.U. teammates. When the ball rolled past midcourt, Baugh picked it up and tossed in a 3-pointer as the buzzer sounded.
The shot, which was not quite meaningless, drew a roar from the crowd, many of whom surely knew what Baugh did not: that Gonzaga had been favored by 4½ points.
Scott Miller contributed reporting.
Scott Miller contributed reporting.
Photograph TOURNAMENT WEEK: Top: Chip, the University of Colorado mascot, during the Pac-12 tournament at T-Mobile Arena this month. Middle and above, the Mountain West held its tournament at the Thomas and Mack Center.; BACK FOR MORE: U.C.L.A. lost the Pac-12 title game to Arizona, but the Bruins are back in Las Vegas for the N.C.A.A. tournament's round of 16. (B8); CLASS TRIP: U.C.L.A. students flocked to Las Vegas this month for the Pac-12 tournament, including Taylor McAdams, above left, and Grace Rapp. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIDGET BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8-B9) This article appeared in print on page B8, B9.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Supreme Court decisions; Stadiums; Casinos; High school basketball; Legalized gambling

Business indexing term: Subject: Casinos

Location: Nevada; United States--US; Indianapolis Indiana; Las Vegas Nevada

People: Tarkanian, Jerry

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/23/sports/ncaabasketball/ncaa-tournament-las-vegas.html

Title: Sin City Spring Break: Once 'Unimaginable,' Now N.C.A.A. Reality:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 23, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2789590974

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sin-city-spring-break-once-unimaginable-now-n-c/docview/2789590974/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fanatics Adds N.H.L. Player Jerseys To Its Growing Roster of Pro Sports: [Sports Desk]

Author: Belson, Ken

Publication info: Belson, Ken. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fanatics-adds-n-h-l-player-jerseys-growing-roster/docview/2789044302/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The sporting apparel company will replace Adidas, which last year said it would not extend its contract as the league's uniform supplier beyond the 2023-24 season.
Fanatics, the world's leading licensed sporting apparel supplier, will begin making and designing jerseys for N.H.L. players starting in the 2024-25 season, the latest expansion of its growing uniform business.
Fanatics will replace Adidas, which has made player jerseys since 2017. Fanatics already manufactures all N.H.L. replica jerseys that fans can purchase, as well as the training gear that players and coaches wear in practice and during games. As part of a licensing and sponsorship agreement with the N.H.L., the company's "F" logo will appear on the back of player jerseys for the first time.
"We had the opportunity to become not just the brand behind the scenes but the brand in front of the scenes," said Michael Rubin, the chief executive of Fanatics.
Adidas said in July that it would not extend its contract as the league's uniform and apparel supplier beyond the 2023-24 season.
Fanatics began making player uniforms for Major League Baseball after it acquired Majestic in 2017. For the N.F.L., Nike manufactures uniforms for players, but Fanatics makes the "authentic" N.F.L. jerseys that fans can buy. In both cases, Nike is the official sponsor, so its swoosh logo is on the uniforms.
Hockey has been a growing category for Fanatics. Rubin said his company, which is privately held, sells about $ 150 million a year in hockey jerseys and other gear to fans, up from about $ 10 million when the company began working with the N.H.L. about 15 years ago. Now, in addition to fan jerseys, Fanatics will produce tens of thousands of jerseys for players each year, all of them made in Canada, as part of a new, 10-year agreement with the N.H.L.
"This is a logical evolution of what we've been doing over the last 15 years," said Gary Bettman, the commissioner of the N.H.L.
Fanatics also runs merchandise shops in several N.H.L. arenas, as well as the league's flagship store in Manhattan, and produces the caps and shirts that players wear after they win the Stanley Cup.
Known primarily for its e-commerce sales, Fanatics now produces about half of what it sells. Most of its production capacity was acquired through purchases of companies like Majestic and Mitchell & Ness, which makes vintage and throwback team apparel. The company's merchandise business will generate about $ 6 billion this year, Rubin said, and more than 80 percent is sold directly to consumers online or through the 2,000 or so stores that the company operates.
Fanatics's memorabilia and collectibles division also works with Auston Matthews, Alex Ovechkin, Igor Shesterkin, Nathan MacKinnon and other N.H.L. stars.
"Fanatics is now approaching a $ 10 billion company, and the cost of the exposure is going to be a great return for our shareholders," Rubin said about having the company's logo on the back of N.H.L. uniforms.
Through the 1990s, most major sports leagues and their teams cut deals with several suppliers to produce and sell licensed merchandise. In the past decade or two, leagues began working with just one company to standardize production and distribution. Reebok was the exclusive supplier of N.H.L. gear until it was purchased by Adidas. N.H.L. agreements have tended to run longer than those of other leagues, said Paul Lukas, the founder and editor of Uni Watch, a website devoted to uniforms, logos and related issues.
CCM was the exclusive uniform provider from 2000-1 to 2003-4. Reebok made the league's uniforms from the 2005-6 season to 2016-17, before Adidas took over.
Many hockey fans also appreciate brands like CCM, Bauer and Koho, which "have a long heritage and greater cachet than some of the corresponding brands have in other sports," Lukas said.
But hockey fans have also been critical of newcomers, including Fanatics.
Chris Creamer, the founder and editor of Sports Logos.net, said that having a single company design every team's uniforms can produce "a template-y look. It would be hard to avoid some duplication in design."
But he said that sports fans in general don't like change. "They want what they grew up with, everyone and their opinions be damned," Creamer said. Throwback uniforms, he said, are "like looking through an old family album. With hockey, we love to romanticize the past."
Fanatics said that when it took over the manufacturing of replica jerseys in 2017, it tweaked the design after speaking with fans. One change included making the shield in the center of jerseys more flexible so they are more easily folded as well as more washable. Fanatics said it also will survey players and equipment managers when it takes over production of their jerseys in another year.
Photograph Michael Rubin, the C.E.O. of Fanatics, on the West 4th Street court in New York. The company is in Easton, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OK MCCAUSLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Sports fans; Clothing industry; Licensed products; Logos; Uniforms; Professional hockey; Professional baseball

Business indexing term: Subject: Clothing industry Logos Uniforms

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/21/sports/hockey/nhl-jerseys-fanatics-adidas.html

Title: Fanatics Adds N.H.L. Player Jerseys To Its Growing Roster of Pro Sports:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2789044302

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fanatics-adds-n-h-l-player-jerseys-growing-roster/docview/2789044302/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

St. John's Hires Pitino, Two-Time N.C.A.A. Champ, to Be New Coach: [Sports Desk]

Author: Zagoria, Adam

Publication info: Zagoria, Adam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/st-johns-hires-pitino-two-time-n-c-champ-be-new/docview/2788643821/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Pitino reached the N.C.A.A. men's tournament with Iona this season. He will take over at St. John's after being ousted from Louisville in 2017.
Rick Pitino has agreed to a six-year deal to become the new men's basketball coach at St. John's, the university said on Monday.
Pitino, 70, was expected to be introduced at a news conference on Tuesday at noon at Madison Square Garden, where he coached Patrick Ewing and the Knicks in the late 1980s and where St. John's plays some of its home games.
The move was one of two major coaching changes in the Big East Conference. Also on Monday, Georgetown announced that it had hired Ed Cooley away from Providence to replace Ewing, who was fired as the Hoyas' coach this month. Cooley is the first men's coach in the league to move directly from one Big East team to another.
"Rick knows Big East basketball and is determined to take and keep the Red Storm program where we know it belongs," the Rev. Brian J. Shanley, the president at St. John's, said in a statement.
Pitino, the Hall of Fame coach who was fired from Louisville in 2017 after a string of scandals, has spent the past three seasons at Iona University, the private Roman Catholic school of about 3,000 undergraduates in New Rochelle, N.Y. Pitino led Iona on a 14-game winning streak to capture the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference regular-season and tournament championships, then lost to Connecticut in the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament.
It will be Pitino's third stint in the Big East Conference after coaching at Providence and Louisville, but he won't have to move. He can remain at his home on the Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y., while taking his star power to games in Jamaica, Queens, and Madison Square Garden. He is expected to take some members of his staff from Iona with him to St. John's.
St. John's fired Mike Anderson on March 10 after the team missed three consecutive N.C.A.A. tournaments. (Anderson coached for four seasons, but the tournament was not held in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic.) The Red Storm haven't been to the tournament since 2019.
Pitino had the backing of a longtime St. John's coach, Lou Carnesecca.
"I don't think we can get a better coach," the 98-year-old Carnesecca told Fox 5 New York of Pitino before Pitino's decision was public. He added: "Right? You can't bring back Naismith."
Pitino said in a statement that competing against Carnesecca and St. John's was "one of my great coaching memories." He added: "It is surreal to now have this opportunity to bring St John's back to prominence."
Pitino met with Shanley, who spent 15 years as the president at Providence before he went to St. John's in 2020, on Sunday on campus. Pitino laid out his vision for the program, which included an investment in improving facilities. Pitino said last week that Shanley once offered him the job at Providence while he was at Louisville.
Asked on Thursday if St. John's could climb back to the heights it achieved when it reached the Final Four in 1985 along with its fellow Big East members Georgetown and Villanova, Pitino said that new rules in college sports to permit athletes to have endorsement deals allowed for any program to compete.
"Obviously you're losing for a reason, but any place can be built," he said.
Despite a checkered history that included several scandals while at Louisville, Pitino is considered one of the best coaches in college basketball history.
He is the only coach to lead two different men's programs -- Kentucky and Louisville -- to national championships, although the 2013 title at Louisville was vacated and Pitino lost his job there after an F.B.I. investigation in which two assistant coaches were accused of funneling money from the university's apparel sponsor, Adidas, to high school recruits. Pitino has long said that he did not know about the scheme, or another involving a staff member soliciting prostitutes and strippers for players and recruits.
"You can take down a banner, but you can't take down a national championship," Pitino said last week.
Pitino left coaching for more than a year, then coached a professional team in Greece before returning to the college ranks at Iona.
Several current and former Big East coaches believe Pitino will be an important -- and potentially scary -- addition to the league.
"Anything that happens relative to programs being superstrong in our league is only going to be beneficial to the Big East," UConn Coach Dan Hurley said last week.
Pitino said last week that he hoped to coach for another decade.
"Well, I'm physically fit and mentally I think I still have it," he said on Thursday. "But my wife always says, 'If you want to make God laugh, make a plan.' I think you just take it one year at a time."
Photograph Rick Pitino coaching Iona in a loss to UConn in the N.C.A.A. tournament's first round. St. John's will be his third Big East job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB CARR/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B10.

ERIC Subject: Conferences (Gatherings); Males; Undergraduate Students; Team Sports; Catholic Schools

Subject: Tournaments & championships; College sports; Coaching; High school basketball

People: Pitino, Rick

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: Madison Square Garden Co; NAICS: 711310; Name: University of Connecticut; NAICS: 611310; Name: Big East Conference; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/rick-pitino-st-johns.html

Title: St. John's Hires Pitino, Two-Time N.C.A.A. Champ, to Be New Coach:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 21, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2788643821

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/st-johns-hires-pitino-two-time-n-c-champ-be-new/docview/2788643821/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 21, 2023

Last updated: 2024-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Iona's Season Ends. Will Its Noted Coach Stay On or Move Up?: [Sports Desk]

Author: Zagoria, Adam

Publication info: Zagoria, Adam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ionas-season-ends-will-noted-coach-stay-on-move/docview/2787789112/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Pitino not long ago was ousted in Louisville as a recruiting scandal hit men's college basketball. Years later, he is back in contention for bigger jobs in the sport.
ALBANY, N.Y. -- Rick Pitino, immaculately dressed in a black suit with a checkered tie and a white pocket square, returned to the N.C.A.A. tournament stage on Friday in a game that helped further his comeback from coaching exile as he chased a memorable March upset.
After his No. 13-seeded Iona Gaels lost to the University of Connecticut, 87-63, in the first round of the men's N.C.A.A. tournament, Pitino shook hands with UConn Coach Dan Hurley and his players and then walked off the court to the locker room.
It remains to be seen whether the game was his last one as the coach at Iona University, a private Catholic school of about 3,600 students in New Rochelle, N.Y., that Pitino has called home since 2020.
"I really don't have an answer to it," Pitino said in the postgame news conference. "I have no idea if it is or isn't. I focused everything on this game, trying to beat Connecticut."
Pitino, at 70, has become a red-hot commodity among men's college basketball teams searching for a coach. Although he has long been respected as a great on the court, he was considered toxic just a few years ago: He was ousted by Louisville in 2017 amid an F.B.I. investigation in which two assistant coaches under Pitino were accused of funneling money from the university's apparel sponsor, Adidas, to high school recruits.
Pitino has long said that he did not know about the scheme, or another involving a staff member soliciting prostitutes and strippers for players and recruits, and he was not penalized when the N.C.A.A. announced discipline in the case in November.
Since then, Pitino has been linked to high-profile jobs at St. John's, Georgetown and Texas Tech, and even Providence -- which he led to the Final Four in 1987 -- if its coach, Ed Cooley, were to leave for another job.
Other coaches tinged with scandal have also been hired anew. Will Wade, a former Louisiana State coach who was a key focus of the F.B.I. investigation into bribery in college basketball, was recently hired at McNeese State, with an agreement that included a five-game suspension to start the 2023-24 season. Former Arizona Coach Sean Miller, also a high-profile subject of the investigation, resurfaced at Xavier last season after Arizona parted ways with him in 2021. Chris Beard, fired by Texas in January in the wake of a domestic violence charge, was hired at Mississippi after the charge was dropped.
Though Pitino has joked that he hasn't been to St. John's in 30 years and would not "even know how to get there," the university in Queens that plays in the Big East Conference appears to be the most likely destination if he opts to leave Iona. Pitino has a previous relationship with the St. John's president, the Rev. Brian J. Shanley, and would not have to move from his home on the Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck.
He would be the star attraction in the games St. John's plays at Madison Square Garden, where he coached Patrick Ewing and the Knicks in the late 1980s. St. John's last week fired Mike Anderson after four seasons without an N.C.A.A. tournament appearance.
Ahead of the UConn matchup, Pitino praised his Iona team, which rode a 14-game winning streak into the tournament. Four starters are returning next season to a squad that won the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference tournament to gain an automatic bid to the N.C.A.A. field.
"I have two or three guys coming off the bench, so that's really important to me," Pitino said. "I look at that as the No. 1 factor in my life, so it's going to take a special place for me to consider leaving."
Whether he stays at Iona or leaves, Pitino won't be done coaching anytime soon.
"I hope I can coach for another 12 years, but I'll take six or seven," he said Thursday.
His players, of course, hope he stays.
"The internet going to talk," sophomore guard Walter Clayton Jr. said when asked about the prospects of Pitino leaving. "We just talk about who's going to win games, and that's it."
During the course of several interviews, Pitino hinted that wherever he coaches, he would like to see the facilities improved.
Asked if St. John's could climb back to the heights it achieved when it reached the Final Four in 1985 along with fellow Big East members Georgetown and Villanova, Pitino said the new rules in college sports allowing for athletes to make endorsement deals -- known widely as name, image and likeness deals (N.I.L.) -- allowed for any program to enjoy a reversal of fortune.
"Any program can be built, but you have to change the culture, you have to change the players, because obviously you're losing for a reason, but anyplace can be built," he said. "And the N.I.L. is the reason. If you have these collectives, then you go out there and you get yourself free agents."
With the emergence of the rules, prompted by state laws across the country, some athletic program supporters have formed collectives to pool money to offer endorsement deals for athletes. Formally, universities are not allowed to pay athletes direct salaries.
After Louisville fired Pitino in late 2017, he was hired by the Greek professional team Panathinaikos in December 2018 before he returned to the United States to coach at Iona beginning in 2020.
"The two years I was out of coaching was the most miserable two years of my life because I missed it so much," he said Thursday. "I love teaching. I love coaching. I love motivating. Everything about it, and I missed it terribly. That's why I went to Greece. That was a big thing for me."
Now, Pitino can weigh more options even as he remains the coach at Iona for now.
"They gave me everything they could give me," he said. "So Iona's a special, special place."
Photograph Coach Rick Pitino on Friday during No. 13 Iona's loss to No. 4 Connecticut in Albany, N.Y., in the N.C.A.A. tournament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB CARR/GETTY IMAGES); Iona's Nelly Junior Joseph is one of four Iona starters who can return next season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BUTLER II/ USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B9.

ERIC Subject: Conferences (Gatherings); Males; Team Sports; Catholic Schools; Laws

Subject: Athletic recruitment; College sports; College basketball; Scandals; High school basketball

Location: Texas; Connecticut; United States--US; Arizona

People: Pitino, Rick

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: University of Connecticut; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/17/sports/ncaabasketball/iona-rick-pitino.html

Title: Iona's Season Ends. Will Its Noted Coach Stay On or Move Up?:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2787789112

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ionas-season-ends-will-noted-coach-stay-on-move/docview/2787789112/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 18, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Some Are Scanning for Hints of Trouble: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-are-scanning-hints-trouble/docview/2785847616/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Our reporter took a five-mile walk around Manhattan to find businesses that are using facial recognition technology.
In early February, I spent $ 171.59 to see the Rangers play the Canucks at Madison Square Garden. I had no plans to watch the hockey game. I just wanted to find out whether my guest, Tia Garcia, a personal injury lawyer, could get into the building.
We got in the security line and walked through the metal detector. Then, as Ms. Garcia turned to pick up her bag from the conveyor belt, a security guard asked her to step aside and show her driver's license. "Am I in trouble?" she asked.
The guard told her that she would need to wait for management to come speak to her.
He didn't explain why, but we already knew: Ms. Garcia is one of thousands of lawyers on a ban list because their firms are involved in litigation against the arena's parent company. While we were in line, facial recognition technology identified her.
"Have you been here before?" the guard asked. When Ms. Garcia told him that she had seen the Cavaliers play the Knicks a few weeks earlier, he expressed surprise. That time, Ms. Garcia had worn a medical mask, a hat and glasses. This time, her face was clearly visible.
Five minutes later, the security manager arrived to officially kick Ms. Garcia out. Even though she had expected it to happen, Ms. Garcia found the deployment of facial recognition technology to punish corporate enemies alarming. So did local lawmakers. The City Council convened a hearing last month to discuss how Madison Square Garden and other local businesses were using the technology.
There were lots of questions to be asked: Who is using it? Who are the people they're trying to keep out of their businesses? What do they do when the technology gets it wrong and flags a look-alike? Mayor Eric Adams had recently encouraged businesses to use facial recognition to fight shoplifting. Who answered his call? If you shoplift once, are you barred for life?
But the Council had a problem. Madison Square Garden hadn't sent a representative, as requested. (A spokeswoman for Madison Square Garden said the organization thought its view -- that the technology provides a safe and secure environment -- was represented by others there.)
And no one at the hearing knew which other businesses were using the technology.
So I decided to find out. New York City has a quirky new law that makes it the only municipality in the country where a business scanning faces has to post a sign telling customers that it is doing so. After I left the meeting, I set off on a miles-long walk in search of those signs. They weren't where I expected them to be.
A Privacy Walkabout
I left the hearing in Lower Manhattan and walked south, past the clothing retailer Zara and a CVS. Neither had a "biometric identifier information" disclosure, so presumably they weren't using facial recognition technology.
"Biometric identifiers? What's that?" an employee at the CVS door asked when I told him about the sign I was seeking. "Biometric identifier" is a fancy term for a unique physical trait, such as a fingerprint, a voiceprint or a scan of someone's face.
Facial recognition software is typically trained on photos of millions of people, until it learns what to look for in an image to match one face to another. It is not perfect, but has grown more accurate in recent years thanks to advances in artificial intelligence.
Typically, a store using facial recognition technology isn't trying to identify every customer who walks through the door but rather is looking for faces that have been put on a watch list, such as previous shoplifters. Madison Square Garden has said it created its lawyer watch list by collecting faces from the barred firms' websites.
I walked a few more blocks south to what I thought would be a sure bet for such a sign: Amazon Go, a convenience store where customers can pay with a palm print. The store was awash in cameras, sensors and palm scanners, allowing shoppers to pick up items and simply walk out without needing to stop at a register. There was a prominent display about the "power in your palm," with instructions on how to link one's handprint to an Amazon account.
But even this store did not have what I was looking for. Amazon said that facial recognition technology wasn't used and that it collected biometrics only from people who volunteered their palms. I bought some mediocre sushi and some water, but with a code from my Amazon app, as I wasn't quite ready to give Jeff Bezos my handprint.
Only the human kind used here
I made my way north toward the New York Times building in Midtown Manhattan, crossing Canal Street to walk along the distinctive cobblestone streets of SoHo. I popped into a Ralph Lauren where a blue cotton blazer was $ 790, a Sunglass Hut selling Gucci glasses for $ 550 and a Louis Vuitton with a $ 990 sleeveless crop top. None of them had a biometric sign, only many employees who watched me closely.
At Coach, a greeter standing next to high-end purses said that the store didn't use facial recognition technology, but that he and his fellow employees knew the regular shoplifters by face and would crowd the door when they tried to enter.
"Try Sephora," he suggested. I did, but there was no sign there. Nor at the Apple, Target or Adidas stores nearby.
The Pew Research Center recently surveyed Americans about their views on facial recognition technology, but only its use by the police, which slightly fewer than half called a good idea. The New York City Police Department has been using the technology since 2011. Less is known about its use by the private sector beyond Madison Square Garden, which started using its system in 2018 to identify security threats.
I walked up the Avenue of the Americas toward Chelsea, passing Old Navy, T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, Trader Joe's and Best Buy. None of them had a biometric disclosure sign.
The city law that requires the notice went into effect last year. The penalty for failure to post a sign is $ 500, but the law also prohibits businesses from selling or sharing the biometric information they collect, with damages of up to $ 5,000 per violation. Private individuals are responsible for enforcing the law; consumers would need to figure out that a business without a sign was secretly scanning their faces or sharing their faceprints with others, and then sue.
"We suspect many businesses are still unaware of the N.Y.C. biometrics law," said Mark Francis, a partner at the law firm Holland & Knight who focuses on data privacy.
'Stop grocery store violence and theft'
As I crossed 25th Street, and the pedometer on my iPhone hit nearly 14,000 steps, I finally spotted a sign at the gourmet grocer Fairway Market. A flimsy white piece of paper, titled "Biometric Identifier Information Disclosure," was taped to a sliding-glass door.
"They use it for security, if people steal," a Fairway employee told me. The store, he said, used a vendor called FaceFirst; its website promises to "stop grocery store violence and theft." The employee, who asked not to be identified by name because he wasn't authorized to speak to a reporter, said a man had been kicked out just that morning because he had previously stolen coffee.
Retail theft has been on the rise since the pandemic. Karen O'Shea, a spokeswoman for Wakefern, Fairway's parent company, said the facial recognition system was put in place about a year ago.
"Retail theft and shoplifting has a high rate of repeat offense and drives up grocery costs for all customers," she said. "Only trained asset protection associates use the system, which helps us focus attention on repeat shoplifters."
After leaving Fairway, I ran into more signs just eight blocks away. When I walked into Macy's on 34th Street, two fancy white signs were affixed to the gray marble wall, one in English and one in Spanish, informing customers that their "biometric identifier information" was collected for "asset protection purposes."
A security guard said he didn't know whether facial recognition was used there. "What signs? Where?" he said, looking around, seemingly confused.
Macy's did not respond to requests for comment about the signs, but a spokesperson previously told Insider that the company used facial recognition "in a small subset of stores with high incidences of organized retail theft and repeat offenders."
Help!
Macy's was just a block from Madison Square Garden, so I swung by to confirm its signs were still on display on poles near the metal detectors. The last six blocks of my trek, past restaurants and retailers on Eighth Avenue, had no obvious biometric signage.
The findings from my four-hour walkabout were confounding. I had checked dozens of stores. The high-end retailers of SoHo apparently weren't using the cutting-edge technology to protect their expensive apparel, but Fairway Market, with lemons on sale for 99 cents, was. Either we are in the early days of the technology's deployment or it is not proving as popular with retailers as expected.
My journey was a limited survey of a vast city of many blocks. Walking the whole of it would take something like six years. So, dear reader, I request help. If you are wandering the streets of New York City and spot a biometric identifier information disclosure sign, I invite you to take a photograph, record the location and send it to me at kashmir.hill@nytimes.com. My feet thank you.
Photograph Top, a checkpoint at Madison Square Garden highlights facial recognition enforcement. Above, Louis Vuitton in SoHo uses security personnel to identify shoplifters. Top right, an Amazon Go store uses biometric data for its payment system, but the company said it didn't use facial recognition technology. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILI BENITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KASHMIR HILL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU5.

Subject: Political conventions; Retail stores; Facial recognition technology; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Grocery stores

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Macys Inc; NAICS: 445110, 455110; Name: Madison Square Garden Co; NAICS: 711310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/technology/facial-recognition-stores.html

Title: Some Are Scanning for Hints of Trouble:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847616

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-are-scanning-hints-trouble/docview/2785847616/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The News Quiz: [Metropolitan Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/2785551138/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: 1. Intelligence reviewed by U.S. officials suggested which group was behind the attack last year on the Nord Stream pipelines that carried natural gas from Russia to Europe?
A Chinese opposition group
A pro-Ukrainian group
Iran's security forces
Russia's spy agency
The U.S. military
2. President Biden's proposed budget, announced this week, included a plan to extend the solvency of Medicare beyond 2050 in which two ways?
Cutting the Defense Department's budget in half
Increasing taxes on people earning over $ 400,000
Raising Medicare's age of eligibility to 70
Strengthening Medicare's power to negotiate drug prices
Taxing corporations' carbon emissions
3. Alex Murdaugh, a prominent South Carolina lawyer from a powerful family, was found guilty of killing his wife and son. What sentence did he receive?
5 years in prison
30 years in prison
50 years in prison
Life in prison
The death penalty
4. After a two-year investigation, the Justice Department said this week that it had found a pattern of discriminatory policing in what city?
Louisville, Ky.
Minneapolis
Mount Vernon, N.Y.
Oklahoma City
Phoenix
5. After severing ties with the rapper Kanye West, known as Ye, over antisemitic comments, Adidas was left with lots of unsold Yeezy sneakers (see above) and sportswear. How much is the merchandise worth?
$ 10 million
$ 75 million
$ 500 million
$ 1.3 billion
$ 50 billion
6. The Manhattan district attorney's office signaled to former President Donald J. Trump's lawyers that he could soon face criminal charges. What is the subject of the inquiry?
Defamation against Dominion Voting Systems
Hush money paid to a porn star
Interference in the 2020 election
Mishandling of classified documents
Tax evasion
7. Russia launched its biggest aerial attack on Ukraine in weeks on Thursday. The barrage included six of Russia's most advanced missiles, called Kinzhals, which are notable in what aspect?
They are bioweapons.
They are nuclear weapons.
They date to World War I.
They fire from drones.
They fly at hypersonic speeds.
8. Voters in Oklahoma this week rejected a measure to legalize what?
Autonomous vehicles
Online gun sales
Prayer in public schools
Recreational marijuana
Sports gambling
9. A new Girl Scout cookie has been in high demand, swiftly selling out and popping up on resale websites for much higher prices. What is the new cookie's name?
Ginger Globe
Raspberry Rally
Samoas
Strawberry Siesta
Thin Mints
10. Which college basketball coach, who was inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2005, was abruptly replaced this week?
Geno Auriemma of UConn
Jim Boeheim of Syracuse
John Calipari of Kentucky
Jay Wright of Villanova
Tara VanDerveer of Stanford
The News Quiz is published on Fridays in the Morning newsletter. To sign up, visit nytimes.com/themorning.Solutions: 1. B; 2. B and D; 3. D; 4. A; 5. D; 6. B; 7. E; 8. D; 9. B; 10. B.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Domestic violence; Presidential elections; Medicare

Business indexing term: Subject: Medicare

Location: Russia; United States--US; Oklahoma

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/pageoneplus/11a2_newsquiz.html

Title: The News Quiz:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785551138

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/2785551138/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Adidas Is Stuck With $1.3 Billion in Yeezy Sneakers: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adidas-is-stuck-with-1-3-billion-yeezy-sneakers/docview/2784734188/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After severing business ties with the rapper Ye, Adidas said it would cut its dividend and declared 2023 a "transition year."
The new chief executive of Adidas has $ 1.3 billion in Yeezy sneakers he doesn't know what to do with.
Stored in warehouses around the world, the sneakers are a reminder of the once-fruitful tie between Adidas and Kanye West, the rapper now known as Ye. Since the first Yeezy Boost 750 shoe dropped in February 2015, his Yeezy brand became a defining force in the sportswear industry and an incredibly lucrative cornerstone for Adidas.
That ended when a fierce backlash against a string of antisemitic remarks by the musician forced Adidas to terminate the deal in October.
Now Bjorn Gulden, who took over Adidas in January, is trying to steady the German company, and the sudden loss of a profitable line is only one of his problems. Last year, sales in China, its biggest market, fell more than 35 percent as the country extended its lockdown to curb Covid, and the decision to pull out of Russia after the invasion of Ukraine cost it 59 million euros (about $ 62 million). It is also losing market share to Nike and other rivals.
On Wednesday, Mr. Gulden declared 2023 a "transition year," as he laid out plans to shift priorities toward traditional product lines and cut costs, starting with slashing the dividend to €0.70 a share from the current €3.30.
At the same time, he said, the company was still trying to decide what to do with its remaining stock of Yeezy sneakers and other sportswear.
Mr. Gulden said he and his team were still weighing their options, including the idea of potentially selling the inventory and donating the profits "to do something good." He said the shoes most likely wouldn't be destroyed.
"We need to reduce inventories and lower discounts," Mr. Gulden said. "Adidas has all the ingredients to be successful. But we need to put our focus back on our core: product, consumers, retail partners and athletes."
Even as the company looks to expand its soccer, running, outdoor and golf lines, Mr. Gulden said, he remains hopeful that collaborations with social media influencers and pop culture stars, including Beyoncé and Pharrell Williams, will pick up this year. They are part of the company's lifestyle sector, which in recent years has been key to boosting Adidas's popularity with wider audiences, especially in the United States.
But the collapse of the most prominent of those collaborations hung over Wednesday's earnings presentation. Last fall Ye began making antisemitic remarks on Twitter that prompted immediate blowback as companies disassociated with him.
Adidas, which was criticized for not acting quickly enough, described his comments and behavior as "unacceptable, hateful and dangerous, and they violate the company's values of diversity and inclusion, mutual respect and fairness."
Severing the agreement with Ye left the company with a mound of sneakers and clothing, resulting in potential losses of €1.2 billion in sales and about €500 million in profit this year.
When the contract was severed, Mr. Gulden said, Adidas decided to continue with the production of Yeezy goods in the pipeline to prevent thousands of people involved from losing their jobs. The future of that inventory is now in question.
"If we sell it, I promise that the people who have been hurt by this will also get something good out of this," Mr. Gulden said. He did not elaborate, but added that donating the proceeds would make more sense than just giving away the shoes, which have an outsize value on the resale market among collectors and other fans. Before last year's uproar, Yeezy sneakers often sold for hundreds of dollars a pair.
Jewish groups were among the strongest voices urging Adidas and other companies to sever ties with Ye, warning that refusing to do so could further fuel hatred against Jews at a time when antisemitism is on the rise, in Germany and the United States alike.
Their response to the idea of selling the Yeezy stock for a good purpose was split. Holly Huffnagle, director of combating antisemitism for the American Jewish Committee, said a financial investment from Adidas toward fighting hatred against Jews could be "a good start," but called on the company to make a more comprehensive effort.
But Charlotte Knobloch, president of the Jewish Community of Munich and Upper Bavaria, warned that regardless of what happened with the proceeds, returning Yeezy shoes to the market would send the wrong signal.
"By deciding to sell West's merchandise now, Adidas would choose to turn back the clock and severely compromise its own values no matter where the proceeds go: Yeezy products would end up on the streets as if nothing had happened," Ms. Knobloch said.
Analysts underlined the various and competing factors involved in the decision over the Yeezy stock.
"When there are more than financial questions at play, the dance between figuring out donating versus liquidating, versus simply moving on, gets complicated," said Simeon Siegel, a retail analyst at BMO Capital Markets.
The company previously said it was "the sole owner of all design rights to existing products" under the partnership, but Mr. Gulden said on Wednesday that it would not consider rebranding the Yeezy inventory. If it were sold instead of being destroyed, Ye would still be entitled to a portion of the proceeds as stipulated under his royalty agreement, although Adidas would not make a profit, Mr. Gulden said.
"Losing the Yeezy business is so hard," he told reporters on Wednesday, praising the creativity of the collaboration on multiple levels, including the design, marketing and its use of social media and apps.
"There is no other Yeezy business in the market," he said. "The people who think you can just replace this with something else -- you can't."
The earnings presentation on Wednesday was Mr. Gulden's first at Adidas, after he spent more than a dozen years as chairman at its crosstown rival Puma. Both companies are based in the same town in Bavaria, Herzogenaurach, where the Dassler brothers, Rudolf and Adi, founded them after World War II.
Adidas reported a 6 percent gain in net sales in 2022, to €22.5 billion, but operating profit fell 66 percent, to €669 million, weighed down by its pullout from Russia and the "zero Covid" lockdowns in China, which contributed to more unsold inventory.
The losses forced the company to issue four profit warnings over six months, leading both Moody's and S&P to downgrade its debt last month.
For 2023, Adidas forecast underlying operating profit at roughly break-even level when taking into account the sales loss, should it fail to find a way to sell the Yeezy inventory.
Adidas faces numerous other challenges beyond its breakup with Ye. The company has been losing market share to Nike and other rivals including Puma, Mr. Gulden's previous employer.
Adidas said it planned to cut its dividend as part of the cost-saving measures, pending approval from shareholders at their annual meeting in May.
Lora Kelley contributed reporting from New York.
Lora Kelley contributed reporting from New York.
Photograph Facing a fierce backlash, Adidas last year ended its deal with Kanye West, the rapper now known as Ye, after he made a string of antisemitic remarks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Athletic shoes; Sport clothes; Cost reduction; Social networks; Antisemitism; Jewish people; Product lines; Corporate profits; Inventory; Market shares

Business indexing term: Subject: Cost reduction Social networks Product lines Corporate profits Inventory Market shares

Location: Russia; New York; United States--US; Bavaria Germany; Germany; China

People: West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/08/world/europe/adidas-earnings-yeezy.html

Title: Adidas Is Stuck With $1.3 Billion in Yeezy Sneakers:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2784734188

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adidas-is-stuck-with-1-3-billion-yeezy-sneakers/docview/2784734188/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Ordinary Player Who's Anything But: [Sports Desk]

Author: Witz, Billy

Publication info: Witz, Billy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ordinary-player-whos-anything/docview/2782860833/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: NATCHITOCHES, La. -- Hansel Enmanuel knew just what to do when his teammate DeMarcus Sharp was marooned in the lane after picking up his dribble, surrounded by defenders. Enmanuel bolted from the corner toward the basket.
Sharp, recognizing help was on the way, delivered a bounce pass to Enmanuel, who collected it in stride and vaulted toward the rim for what everyone on his team -- and everyone else in the small arena -- expected to be a stanchion-shaking dunk. But as Enmanuel approached the basket with the ball palmed in his right hand, he recalibrated.
Instead of dunking, he laid the ball on the rim. It would not cooperate, rolling off.
A few moments later, Corey Gipson, Enmanuel's coach at Northwestern State, pulled him aside to deliver an indelicate truth: Enmanuel should have dunked it, but he had shied away from the contact.
"He went up worrying about missing instead of saying, 'I'm going to put the women and children to bed,"' Gipson said later that night, after Northwestern State lost to the University of New Orleans.
What made their exchange so extraordinary, though, was just how ordinary it was -- no mollycoddling or mincing of words, just a coach letting a freshman know that he expects more from him. In that moment, Enmanuel, who lost his left arm in a childhood accident, was right where he wanted to be -- just another player on a team with N.C.A.A. tournament ambitions.
Of course, Enmanuel is anything but.
Enmanuel, 19, is the only player in Division I men's college basketball with only one arm, relying instead on his other gifts: a rangy, 6-foot-6 frame; kangaroolike hops; and a basketball IQ passed down from his father, Hansel Salvador, a longtime standout in the Dominican Republic professional league.
And how many other college players have collected 1.4 million Instagram followers, walked the red carpet at the ESPYs, or taken a star turn in a sports drink commercial broadcast during last year's N.B.A. finals? (For that matter, how many have a seven-figure endorsement portfolio, which he does, according to his agent, that also includes sportswear, sunglasses and cellphone companies?)
That visibility has been mostly recent, after he moved to the United States from the Dominican Republic less than three years ago speaking little English. He became an internet sensation through dunk videos while he excelled at Life Christian Academy in Kissimmee, Fla.
This is a life Enmanuel did not think possible after, at age 6, a wall he was climbing collapsed on him, pinning his left arm. By the time he was rescued, it was too late to save his arm. It was amputated just below the shoulder.
"When the accident happened, I was thinking, like: 'What am I going to do now?"' Enmanuel told The Associated Press in December in the only print interview he has done this season. "I was thinking: 'It's over for me."'
Small milestones -- like tying his own shoelaces -- gave way to bigger ones, like maintaining his equilibrium while running. And then learning to do basketball tasks with one hand, like dribbling, passing, shooting, rebounding and blocking shots. When Enmanuel moved to Florida, where his mother had immigrated years earlier and he also hoped better opportunities awaited, he more than held his own on the court.
This was true even at a 2021 summer recruiting showcase near Indianapolis, when coaches in the Big Ten, Big 12 and Mountain West sat in folding chairs along the court and marveled at how capably Enmanuel played -- even as they were skeptical that he could play for their teams.
"Sometimes coaches second-guess themselves and what they're looking at," said Rick Catala, who coached Enmanuel for SOH Elite, a club team based in Pembroke Pines, Fla. "I've seen Hansel destroy high-major kids, but then they're still questioning him. I told one coach, 'I don't know why you keep asking me, 'Is he a D-I basketball player?"'
A year ago, Isaac Haney was on the Missouri State team bus having a spirited debate with a teammate over the same question. Now, as Enmanuel's teammate at Northwestern State, he has a clearer understanding.
"You're recruited because a coach sees an ability in you to do a specific job, and sometimes guys aren't willing to do the job that's asked of them," said Haney, a sophomore guard. "I look at Hansel and see a guy who has an unbelievable work ethic, but also a willingness to serve and a willingness to do the little things. That's what really makes him an asset and invaluable to this team."
Enmanuel's duty is to provide energy through his play -- and his smile.
"His biggest job," Haney said, "is to bring that it factor."
If Enmanuel was intent on a quiet assimilation into life as a college athlete, it would be hard to find a better place -- or one farther off the basketball grid -- than Northwestern State.
A public university with an enrollment of 9,389, serving mostly students in one of the nation's poorest regions, Northwestern State is tucked away in a city that claims to be Louisiana's oldest settlement. Its closest airports are an hour's drive south to Alexandria and a little more than that north to Shreveport. The Demons, who had not had a winning season in seven years, have neither a media following nor many fans, drawing perhaps a thousand to their home games.
There are, to put it kindly, few distractions here.
"Hansel likes quiet," said Jhoancy Zapata, his business agent.
There were other options to consider. Memphis, which has national championship ambitions and would have offered a bigger stage but perhaps less playing time, extended a scholarship offer. So did Tennessee State and Bethune-Cookman, historically Black universities that would have provided a unique platform. Northwestern State could promise only one thing: that it would treat Enmanuel like a basketball player.
"I guarantee you we're not recruiting him for a dog and pony show," Gipson told Enmanuel, his parents, his club coach and his business advisers in a video call last spring. The coach has heard the inevitable tongue-clucking from other coaches that signing Enmanuel was merely a publicity stunt. "We're recruiting him because we think we can develop him and we think he has the right ingredients to fit into the program."
Northwestern State's president, Marcus Jones, was also on the call, easing Enmanuel's mother's concerns in Spanish, which he speaks fluently. Jones hosted Enmanuel and his parents for breakfast during his recruiting visit.
"The main thing -- and I think we've held true on this -- is they did not want their son to be treated as a number or as someone who would be exploited because he was popular on social media," Jones said.
One accommodation has been enlisting Christian Paez, a Colombia native and honor student who has played saxophone in the school's jazz orchestra, as a graduate assistant with the team, helping ease Enmanuel's integration. Paez doesn't know much about basketball, but he knows what it's like to drop into small-town Louisiana when your English is a work in progress.
"When I came to the airport and went to a fast-food place, I knew how to order, but I was afraid to mess up and have people laugh at me," Paez said. "He was the same when he got here. But he's not somebody who is afraid. If he wants to develop a skill, he can do it."
Enmanuel has been adamant about not receiving any special treatment on the team.
When Gipson told him he could do situps instead of fingertip push-ups as punishment for a mistake in a drill, Enmanuel resisted -- completing the task with the help of a teammate, Cedric Garrett, who supported him around the waist.
Earlier this season, the Demons were whizzing through an N.C.A.A. survey for college athletes, eager to get out the door. As they did, Enmanuel remained behind, painstakingly using a translation app on his phone so he could diligently answer each question. "He looked up at me with this distraught look on his face going, 'Man, this is hard,"' Haney said. "But he doesn't want anyone's sympathy."
This has helped him earn the respect of his teammates.
Enmanuel did not arrive until school started in late August, missing summer workouts and the opportunity to get to know his teammates, the coaches' terminology and the nuances of their schemes. He arrived late because he was fulfilling his endorsement obligations. It was an example of the tension that sometimes exists between his basketball and business interests.
He is in the United States on an O-1A visa, granted to individuals with extraordinary abilities, which makes him the rare foreign college athlete who can earn money in the United States on endorsements. His contract with Adidas runs through the 2025-26 season.
For business to continue, Enmanuel must play. But playing time is doled out on merit, and he had difficulty getting on the court early in the season.
"This is what the brands are after," Zapata said. "They don't want to see Hansel's grades in science or English or math. They're after Hansel for how he plays."
There were "most definitely" questions about his priorities when Enmanuel arrived, said Sharp, the team's standout point guard. "It was probably a month after I got to know him -- you could see he was locked in on basketball," Sharp said. "He never focused on social media; he was always in the gym playing one on one and working on his game."
It is for that reason that Enmanuel has limited his interviews this season, speaking only to The A.P. and CBS, though he did agree to take a portrait for this article. His discomfort, those around him believe, comes from being the center of attention when he is not the star -- as he was in high school.
"I'm diving into Hansel's mind here," said Gipson, who is trying to organize several exhibition games for his team in the Dominican Republic this summer. "But he's saying to himself: 'Why are you interviewing me? Are you patronizing me? My time will come."'
And yet Enmanuel is drawing attention to his team's program -- an inspirational tale itself.
The Demons (21-10), who were 9-23 last season, finished second in the Southland Conference this season with a 13-5 record, earning a spot in Tuesday's conference tournament semifinals. If they reach the N.C.A.A. tournament, they may have a puncher's chance: They won at now-No. 22 Texas Christian, led 25th-ranked Texas A&M at halftime and played seventh-ranked Baylor competitively.
This is the first head coaching job for Gipson, 41, who believes small gestures off the court carry over on it. His players are required to perform 70 hours of community service, including picking up trash at local parks, reading to elementary school children and serving food to the needy. And they make sure to fist-bump everyone -- strangers, too -- when they leave a room, as they did on a recent morning after breakfast at Lasyone's, a downtown Creole institution known for its meat pies.
It was important, Gipson said, that Enmanuel fit in as well off the court as he might on it.
So it was a marker of where Enmanuel stood when players (and coaches) on the Demons' bench leaped to their feet early this season when Enmanuel scooped up his own missed free throw and dunked the ball. After playing only sporadically and missing several weeks with a concussion, he has earned more playing time of late. He has started the past three games, his activity defensively and on the boards providing an energetic presence while he better remembers his assignments.
And occasionally, he'll contribute offensively, as he did Euro-stepping his way through the lane recently for a nifty basket against Southeastern Louisiana.
Two days later, Enmanuel pestered New Orleans with his activity and was on the court for 15 impactful minutes, scoring 5 points, a total that may have been higher had he not held back on the dunk opportunity. Omarion Henry, a freshman forward for New Orleans, popped Enmanuel on the chest with his fist as the teams went through a handshake line after the Privateers' victory.
It was a simple but meaningful gesture, a sign of the respect Henry said he has for Enmanuel, one competitor acknowledging another.
Photograph Hansel Enmanuel, top, a freshman guard at Northwestern State who came to the U.S. from the Dominican Republic, lost an arm in an accident when he was 6. He has become a solid contributor down the stretch as the Demons try to earn an N.C.A.A. tournament berth. He has earned the respect of his teammates, with whom he shared a pregame prayer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALLAGHAN O'HARE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MICHAEL WYKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D1); Hansel Enmanuel, top, warming up for Northwestern State, drew notice for dunk videos while at a Florida academy. He had to learn basketball skills like rebounding with one hand growing up and is trying to better grasp his assignments.; Enmanuel, who came to the U.S. knowing little English, has 1.4 million Instagram followers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALLAGHAN O'HARE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Athletic recruitment; Tournaments & championships; Student athletes; Basketball

Location: United States--US; Dominican Republic; Louisiana

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/05/sports/ncaabasketball/hansel-enmanuel-northwestern-state.html

Title: An Ordinary Player Who's Anything But:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 6, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2782860833

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ordinary-player-whos-anything/docview/2782860833/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Rocked by Doping Allegation, a Rising Star Maintains Innocence: [Sports Desk]

Author: Frost, Natasha

Publication info: Frost, Natasha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rocked-doping-allegation-rising-star-maintains/docview/2779149152/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A star Olympic runner from Australia was suspended over a positive drug test of a kind that critics have called alarmingly open to human error.
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Few professional runners become household names. But in Australia, Peter Bol, a middle-distance runner of Sudanese descent, is something of a national hero.
At the Tokyo Olympics, where he was the first Australian man in 53 years to compete in the 800-meter Olympic final, he hurtled into his compatriots' hearts after he placed fourth in a nail-biter race.
"I didn't know if I was going to win, but I knew one thing for certain -- that the whole of Australia was watching," he told reporters in 2021. "That carried me on."
This year, Australian eyes are again on Mr. Bol -- but for less desirable reasons.
Last month, news broke that he faced a suspension from training after a sample of his urine tested positive for synthetic erythropoietin, or EPO, according to Australia's antidoping agency. The drug, a banned blood booster that helps promote endurance, has led to suspensions for other now-discredited athletes, including runners, biathletes and the disgraced American cyclist Lance Armstrong.
Weeks later, after receiving the results from the test of his "B sample" -- the second part of the original sample, used to verify the accuracy of the first, or A sample -- Mr. Bol says his innocence has now been proven. The antidoping agency, calling the result "atypical," said it has not.
The episode has raised questions not only about Mr. Bol's integrity, but also when and how officials should go public with accusations of drug use. Internationally, it has resurrected debate about the accuracy of EPO testing, which critics call alarmingly open to human error.
On Jan. 10, when antidoping officials came to Mr. Bol's home in Melbourne to inform him of his suspension, he hoped that the allegations might never become public.
His lawyer, Paul Greene, begged the antidoping agency, Sports Integrity Australia, to keep the suspension under wraps until testing on his B sample had been completed. Mr. Bol, 29, had a squeaky-clean reputation and a high public profile, and he maintained his innocence, Mr. Greene said.
He was a finalist for Young Australian of the Year, a prestigious national prize that would be awarded later that month, and they feared that the suspicion of doping could harm his chances, he added.
At first, the agency agreed, Mr. Greene said. "'If his B doesn't confirm his A, he'll keep this confidential, nobody will ever know,' and that's the way it should be." Elsewhere in the world, he added, an athlete would seldom, if ever, be suspended until both samples had been analyzed.
Days later, the agency told Mr. Greene the information had somehow become public, he said, and they felt compelled to formally announce the suspension. Mr. Greene said that he struggled to understand how the information had come to light.
Allegations of doping in sports are hardly news -- nor are vehement protestations of innocence by accused athletes. But to Australians, it was a bombshell.
In Mr. Bol's easy manner and laid-back charisma, they had seen someone to root for: the champion runner who had fallen into the sport as an extra contestant in a school 400-meter race. Others applauded his sporting prowess: On his path to the Olympic final, Mr. Bol had breezed past two national records. And still more were inspired by his back story. Mr. Bol's family fled to Egypt from violence in Sudan when he was a small child, before coming to Australia on humanitarian visas.
When the allegations become public, Mr. Bol called for patience and swore that he had never taken EPO or any other prohibited substance. "I am innocent and have not taken this substance as I am accused," he wrote on Instagram. Mr. Bol did not respond to requests for comment.
In attesting his innocence, Mr. Bol's team has pointed to the athlete's upstanding record, distaste for needles and overall good character. But there are also practical and financial reasons he is unlikely to have doped, especially before receiving sponsorship from Adidas and Longines, said Justin Rinaldi, Mr. Bol's coach, who receives no payment.
Until the Olympics, Mr. Bol never earned more than $ 20,000 a year from running, paying for all related costs himself, Mr. Rinaldi said. "It's not glamorous." Few could afford performance drugs, particularly as part of a structured program of doping, he added. "It's not something that's feasible in our sport, particularly here in Australia."
The drug Mr. Bol is accused of having used is near-identical to a molecule found naturally in the body that stimulates the production of red blood cells. The test for it yields columns of black streaks of varying thicknesses and densities.
Antidoping agencies typically analyze the results from those tests using the human eye, a worryingly fallible method, said Erik Boye, a Norwegian scientist. Along with fellow professors of biochemistry and molecular biology in Oslo, he has long been calling for a change in how these tests are conducted.
"There are scientific methods whereby you can measure exactly the density in the profile that you're analyzing," he said. "You can have a machine do it. And then the answer is obvious."
In the early 2010s, Dr. Boye and his colleagues sought to rally support within the scientific community for such machine analysis. At first, they attracted signatories from significant colleagues, including Werner Franke, who exposed details of East Germany's state-sponsored athlete doping program, and Peter Agre, who won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 2003.
But these efforts were scorned by antidoping agencies, who said that they were highly experienced in analyzing the tests and would not change their methods.
Eventually, Dr. Boye said, the fight began to feel unwinnable. "It's just so unfair," he said. "You think that antidoping is a worthy, glorious undertaking, but it's not, unfortunately."
Last week, Mr. Bol published another statement on Instagram -- this time, with a note of euphoria. He would return to training, he said, after receiving the test results from his B sample. "I was hopeful the process would exonerate me," he wrote on Feb. 14. "I am relieved to report that it did."
But a statement from Sports Integrity Australia, which has said it intends to interview Mr. Bol in the coming weeks, was more foreboding.
Yes, Mr. Bol could return to training. Yes, the B sample did not confirm the A sample. However, "an atypical finding is not the same as a negative test result," the statement read, stressing that further investigation would be needed.
Sports Integrity Australia didn't respond to requests for an interview.
Mr. Bol and his team said they hoped to learn what had happened. He plans to see a kidney specialist, his coach said. Since Jan. 14, they have been waiting to receive the full lab report, at a cost to Mr. Bol of more than 1,200 Australian dollars. So far, they have only the initial one-page summary and an accompanying letter.
"My guess is that we will never see any results," said Dr. Boye, the scientist.
He added: "They will never reveal anything that could discredit them. They will say 'nothing found, case closed."' And the process would leave Mr. Bol "shattered," he added, "at least for a few months."
Photograph Peter Bol of Australia was second in the 800 meters last year at the Commonwealth Games in England, above, and finished fourth at the Tokyo Olympics in 2021, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN STANSALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; RYAN PIERSE/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Drugs & sports; Olympic games; Human error

Location: Australia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/22/world/australia/peter-bol-doping-allegations-australia.html

Title: Rocked by Doping Allegation, a Rising Star Maintains Innocence:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 24, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 036 24331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779149152

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rocked-doping-allegation-rising-star-maintains/docview/2779149152/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Next Hot Housing Market Is Out of This World: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kamin, Debra

Publication info: Kamin, Debra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/next-hot-housing-market-is-out-this-world/docview/2777801972/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Despite the implosion of FTX and projections of a cryptocurrency winter, the metaverse real estate market is expected to grow by $ 5.37 billion by 2026. In March, Gabe Sierra, a contractor whose family has been in the construction business for more than 30 years, will take offers for his latest creation: an 11,000-square-foot mansion with seven bedrooms and a pool in Pinecrest, Miami.
To sweeten the deal, he's throwing in the exact same house and a King Kong-size, bright green gorilla that scales downtown skyscrapers and stalks the streets of South Florida.
The twin home is in the metaverse -- a catchall phrase for the growing conglomerate of immersive digital worlds where avatars work, play and purchase goods. Pixelated parcels of land are being bought, sold and built upon in a market now worth $ 1.4 billion, making the metaverse a new frontier for real estate builders and investors.
Mr. Sierra, an avid gamer who uses a purple gorilla as one of his own avatars, paid $ 10,000 for a digital parcel in an online world called the Sandbox, and then partnered with Voxel Architects, an architecture firm specializing in virtual 3-D properties, to build the digital home to pair with the real thing. It all hits the auction block in March, and he's hoping for a sale price of around $ 10 million.
"It's a project that blends the line between physical and digital to the furthest extent that I could on a residential home," Mr. Sierra said of the house, called Meta Residence One. "It pairs a real-world build and expands on it in the digital space. As these technologies get more immersive, it's going to make a lot more sense."
Much like real-world real estate, where pricing fluctuates according to the principle of supply and demand, metaverse real estate also operates on a fixed scale. The internet itself may be boundless, but most virtual gaming universes have already been sliced and diced into a set number of parcels, meaning as the number of buyers increases, prices go up as well.
Financial transactions in the metaverse are handled in cryptocurrency and powered by the blockchain -- a digitally distributed public ledger that eliminates the need for a third party like a bank. Despite the implosion of FTX and projections of a crypto winter, the metaverse real estate market is expected to grow by $ 5.37 billion by 2026.
In the Sandbox, one of the most popular metaverse worlds and where Mr. Sierra made his $ 10,000 purchase, much of the virtual land rush has been at the hands of global corporations like Adidas, Atari and Warner Music Group, who have bought spaces to create entertainment, sell goods, launch virtual headquarters and host immersive gatherings for employees and fans.
Last year, the total value of land in The Sandbox, which is sold via a nonfungible token, or NFT, was estimated to be $ 167 million. And while land purchased directly from the Sandbox goes for about $ 400 a parcel, there's an active secondary market where prices can be many times that. Proximity to land owned by celebrities and big-name brands drives up prices, too: After Snoop Dogg purchased parcels in the Sandbox and christened them "Snoopverse," one buyer paid $ 450,000 just to become his neighbor.
"Land is becoming the infrastructure of the metaverse," said Sebastien Borget, the Sandbox's co-founder. "In this ecosystem, there are actors that are developing and offering services for people to find the right land, buy the right land and understand the value of that land."
The metaverse has been around since 2003, when Second Life, a three-dimensional virtual world platform, came onto the scene. But virtual real estate didn't truly take off until late 2021, when Mark Zuckerberg announced that the social media platform formerly known as Facebook would now be called Meta, placing a hyper-public bet on the future of the next digital frontier.
Since then, land sales in the metaverse have climbed into the seven figures, including a virtual estate purchased for $ 2.4 million in November 2021 in Decentraland and another for $ 1.65 million in Otherside in May 2022.
And now, in addition to billboards and burger joints for avatars, homes are being constructed on these parcels of land. They don't offer shelter or a place to sleep. But they do offer our increasingly-online selves a place to gather -- and show off.
"Buying a piece of real estate for a residential purpose in the metaverse is a kind of prestige," said Kristi Waterworth, a journalist and contributing analyst for The Motley Fool who writes regularly on metaverse real estate.
It's also a chance to bend the rules of physics. Everyrealm, a metaverse technology and infrastructure company, partnered with artists including Misha Khan and Daniel Arsham to create the Row, a futuristic collection of digital homes marked by melting, Salvador Dali-esque angles and dreamlike floating spheres. The homes premiered at Art Basel in an immersive exhibit and are not yet for sale, but Janine Yoriro, Everyrealm's chief executive, says she anticipates each will sell for about $ 75,000.
Buyers will receive a certificate of authenticity as well as 3-D models of their home, and then be able to place it on a plot of land in the online gaming world of their choice.
"We called upon a bunch of cultural references, one of which was the idea of a Sears home, when back at the turn of the century you could buy plans for a home and then build it anywhere from New York City to Des Moines," Ms. Yoriro said.
Some online worlds present a digital map of the earth, allowing buyers to purchase places or coordinates that hold sentimental or historic value. T.J. Brisbois, 37, a real estate investor in Detroit, owns about a dozen land parcels in Motor City, but not on Earth -- in the Detroit of Upland, a gaming portal mapped to the real world. He buys them, marks them up and resells them. He estimates he's made a 10 percent return on his money since he started in 2022.
His purchases, he said, are just an extension of his business in the real world.
"I didn't really get it until I got into it, and I was willing to put in a few real-world dollars," Mr. Brisbois said. "It's important for people that are in real estate, because there's real opportunity here."
Buyers concerned about real estate taxes on virtual real estate can breathe easy, said Mike O'Brien, who heads up the Web3 and Digital Assets team at Ernst & Young. Though tax law on virtual real estate is evolving, "we have yet to see property taxes on real estate that would be issued by a government," he said, adding that indirect taxes such as consumer taxes, sales tax and gain considerations do often apply.
Mr. O'Brien is the owner of digital real estate -- in Superworld, another digital world mapped over earth. He recently purchased the parcel of New York City land that is home to the bar where he met his wife.
Brick and mortar home builders are also tapping into the metaverse for opportunities to reach new customers. In January, KB Home, one of the largest homebuilders in the United States, cut the ribbon on a community in Decentraland, where potential buyers can enter, explore and toy with customization options on three of their model homes.
Buyers can swap out everything from countertop materials to overall architectural style. The move, said Amit Desai, KB Home's chief marketing officer, is a natural outgrowth of the virtual walk-through options that have increased since 2020.
"Even before the pandemic, we were on this path of providing enhanced digital tools, but the pandemic accelerated the need for us to really allow prospective home buyers to search for a home from the comfort of their current homes," Mr. Desai said. "The metaverse is just a nice extension of that." Top and second row, Everyrealm, a metaverse technology and infrastructure company, worked with artists, including Misha Khan and Daniel Arsham, to create the homes in the Row. Above right is the KB Metaverse Pavilion. Above is a metaresidence. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE ROW; KB HOMES; METARESIDENCE) This article appeared in print on page RE13.

Subject: Digital currencies; Taxes; Architecture; Prices; Purchasing; Infrastructure; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Taxes Architecture Infrastructure Social networks

Location: New York City New York; United States--US; Detroit Michigan

People: Arsham, Daniel

Company / organization: Name: KB Home; NAICS: 236115, 237210, 551112

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/16/realestate/metaverse-vr-housing-market.html

Title: The Next Hot Housing Market Is Out of This World:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 19, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777801972

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/next-hot-housing-market-is-out-this-world/docview/2777801972/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Reminiscing About Clothes That Shaped Hip-Hop

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reminiscing-about-clothes-that-shaped-hip-hop/docview/2775416744/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — A proud crowd of hip-hop style pioneers gathered at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology on Tuesday night to toast the opening of a show that celebrates the history and evolution of hip-hop fashion. The exhibition, “Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: 50 Years of Hip Hop Style,” documents the fashion genre’s humble origins from its beginnings in the Bronx borough of New York City in the early 1970s to its crossover into the mainstream as a dominant and lucrative international force.
The guest list was filled with early streetwear designers, old-school rappers, graffiti artists and hip-hop historians. Visitors sipped Champagne while a DJ played retro hits like “Juicy” by The Notorious B.I.G. (The late rapper’s son, C.J. Wallace, was in attendance.) The mood was triumphant: No one disputes the Timberland boot’s enduring influence on street fashion, but it’s another thing entirely to see one trapped beneath a museum display case. Other pieces included an Adidas tracksuit, Lee jeans, Kangol caps and jackets tailored by Dapper Dan. When the Harlem haberdasher himself arrived at the event wearing a red blazer and hat, he could barely walk through the exhibition, getting accosted for selfies at every turn.
The show (which is accompanied by a Rizzoli Electa book) was curated by Elizabeth Way and Elena Romero. “Fashion is the original sixth element of hip-hop,” Romero said. “Aspirations become a reality through what we wear. From nameplates to chains, it’s a way of being seen, and wearing the right clothes is a way to announce yourself to the world.”
We asked attendees to name pieces — and coveted items dubbed grails — that they believe have contributed to hip-hop fashion history and to share who they think is carrying the torch for hip-hop style today.
Interviews were edited.
—
Dapper Dan
Q: What do you consider an important and historic hip-hop fashion grail?
A: Back in the day, you’d come to Dapper Dan, and the height of being accomplished was having the snorkel jacket. The snorkel is eternal. It showed that you had arrived at the top.
Q: Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today?
A: ASAP Rocky. He doesn’t even need to have another hit. He is the swaggiest.
—
April Walker
Q: What’s an iconic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The Carhartt jacket. It’s timeless and will still be timeless years from now. It’s work wear but it’s also fashion, function and fit. You can dress it up and dress it down. It tells a story beautifully.
Q: Thoughts on a significant hip-hop fashion crossover moment?
A: For me it’s a personal one: when Mike Tyson walked out into a fight wearing Walker Wear and my work as a designer suddenly graced a heavyweight boxing ring — he and I are both Brooklyn cats.
—
Misa Hylton
Q: What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion grail ?
A: The Louis Vuitton snorkel coat by Dapper Dan. It captures the aspirational epitome of hip-hop.
Q: Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today?
A: I love Teyana Taylor’s style because it’s tomboy-chic rooted in hip-hop. I like how she plays with gender and feminizes the masculine nature of hip-hop. I also like Flo Milli. She’s a beautiful chocolate queen who embraces femininity in new ways that pay homage to women in hip-hop who came before her.
—
Beau McCall
Q: What’s an iconic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The Timberland boot. Long before it became popular, my brother owned a pair, and no one even knew what they were. It was just a work boot. A couple years later, hip-hop grabbed onto the Timberland, and it became the ultimate fashion statement in the hood.
Q: Thoughts on a significant crossover moment?
A: Foxy Brown appeared in a Calvin Klein ad on the SoHo billboard in the 1990s. I went down to SoHo just to see that billboard. She was causing traffic.
—
Peter “Souleo” Wright
Q: Who do you consider a hip-hop style pioneer?
A: Queen Latifah’s Afrocentric style. It’s important because she was celebrating the African diaspora and our lineage and she helped bring that into hip-hop. That was new to me when I was a kid and it made me want to learn more about my history.
—
Sola Olosunde
Q: What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: It’s recent, but I’d say the dress that Young Thug wore on the cover of “Jeffery.” He defied gender norms in a space where gender norms are pretty enforced. There’s an idea of hyper-masculinity in hip-hop and wearing that dress and umbrella hat went against those norms.
Q: Anyone you’d like to shout out?
A: Doja Cat. She provokes conversation in what she wears. She makes herself into a spectacle. And that’s needed because rappers aren’t as out there anymore. They’re not as original as they used to be with their style.
—
C.J. Wallace
Q: Thoughts on a historic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The Versace shades that my dad used to wear. It’s just an iconic piece. It came to symbolize hip-hop for me when I was growing up as a kid.
Q: Do you have a shout out?
A: Sober Yung Walter. He’s always pushing it. He’s the coolest guy pushing the boundaries right now.
—
Kid Freeze
Q: W hat do you think is an iconic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The nameplate. When you went into clubs with one, people saw it. You were going as yourself. It was a way of putting significance on your own name. Showing who you are.
Q: Thoughts on a significant crossover moment?
A: When the Dynamic Rockers battled the Rock Steady Crew. It was the first big break dancing battle and it happened in the early 1980s at Lincoln Center. I was in the Dynamic Rockers.
—
General Steele
Q: Thoughts on a hip-hop style grail?
A: I’m biased, but for me, it would be the Helly Hansen I wore in the Smif-N-Wessun music video for “Wrekonize.” We shot it in my neighborhood of Brownsville in Brooklyn and all I can think of is the little kids who were so excited to see me wearing it. The fashion was electrifying, fabulous and aspirational to them.
Q: What about a significant crossover moment?
A: For me, that would be the success of Slick Rick. He gave us the format of what to wear, from Gucci to Polo cologne. He was giving us game early. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile shows; Rap music; World music; Museum exhibits; Hip hop music; Museums; Gender

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology; NAICS: 712110

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Carolina Herrera Ltd; Lincoln Center For The Performing Arts; Calvin Klein Inc; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Tyson, Mike; Adidas Ag; Rock Steady Crew; Louis Vuitton; Gucci; Taylor, Teyana (1990 ); Brownsville (Brooklyn, Ny); Brooklyn (Nyc); Bronx (Nyc); Fashion Institute Of Technology; Soho (Manhattan, Ny); Hylton, Misa; Carhartt Inc; Queen Latifah; Williams, Jeffery Lamar (Young Thug); Wallace, Christopher G; Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Versace, Gianni, Spa; Day, Daniel (Dapper Dan); Dlamini, Amala Zandile (Doja Cat); Cj (Rapper); Flo Milli (Rapper); Asap Rocky; Walters, Ricky (1965 ); Fast Life Yungstaz; Romero, Elena (Journalist); Culture (Arts); Funerals And Memorials; Snorkeling; Dresses; Men And Boys; Coats And Jackets; Shoes And Boots; Gender; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Music; Art; Brooklyn, Ny, Subway Shooting (April 12, 2022); Museums; Outdoor Advertising; Black People; Rap And Hip Hop

Title: Reminiscing About Clothes That Shaped Hip-Hop

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-12 @ 16:47

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775416744

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reminiscing-about-clothes-that-shaped-hip-hop/docview/2775416744/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harry Styles Ate Here. Fans Flock.: [Style Desk]

Author: Creeden, Molly

Publication info: Creeden, Molly. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-fans-flock/docview/2775347534/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At 9:30 a.m. on a Thursday, the Harrys began to arrive at Beachwood Cafe. Young women with neon hair extensions, colorful crocheted cardigans and shirts illustrated with cherries, sunflowers and the word "Pleasing" piled out of rental cars and Ubers. They were trailed by their mothers and filming on their phones. By 10:30, the mom-and pop eatery, which has been around since the 1970s in the heart of Beachwood Canyon, Los Angeles, had a 30-minute wait, and a swarm of teenage girls taking photos in front of its blue door.
Who are the Harrys? They are Harry Styles superfans, and hordes of them have been making the pilgrimage to Beachwood Cafe, a cheerful spot with an all-day menu off a small village square, since December 2019. That's when the superstar briefly name-checked the restaurant in the song "Falling": "And the coffee's out at the Beachwood Cafe," he sang. That one line -- which Styles-olgoists believe to be about his ex Camille Rowe, a former Beachwood Canyon resident -- sent a bat signal.
"I just felt like coming here would complete the whole Harry Styles experience," said Caysey Gossweiler, 27, who traveled from Maryland to attend one of the three concerts that Mr. Styles would perform at the Kia Forum that weekend in late January.
"It's panic-inducing; I could literally evaporate thinking about it," said Noelle Jay, 26, of being in the same space where Mr. Styles once ate eggs. "He's like a god," added her cousin Mia Tucci, 17, whose hair was a shade of Kelly green. "He's like my comfort person, my light, my inspiration, all of the above," Ms. Jay replied.
Nearby, Nathan Freeman, 26, and his wife, Shannon Freeman, 25, were taking photos of Taylor Anderson and Alyson Johnston -- 20-year-old college students from Oregon they had just met. "It was like -- where should we go for breakfast? Harry told us where to go!" Mr. Freeman said gleefully.
The couple, who wore matching crop top and bell bottom ensembles to attend the concert at the Forum, had spent the previous day at Sycamore Cove Beach in Malibu, where fans say Mr. Styles filmed the videos for "Watermelon Sugar" and the One Direction song "What Makes You Beautiful."
"She ran and screamed and fan-girled," Mr. Freeman said, describing his wife's behavior upon arriving at the beach. "I was like, ah!" he shrieked. "I love this for you!"
Ms. Freeman said she admired Mr. Styles for his kindness. "I've never seen a scandal from him ever -- which is amazing."
Over avocado toast at a table inside, Ms. Anderson -- who made her family do a detour during an Amalfi Coast vacation to visit a street where Mr. Styles filmed parts of the "Golden" music video (she found the location by searching Google Maps for landmarks in the background of the behind-the-scenes video) -- offered her perspective on the fandom. "It's a family in a lot of ways," she said. "A good example of how the online world connects people."
Ms. Johnston finished watching a video on her phone of Mr. Styles doing Pilates, via the fan account Harry Florals, and added: "You can just kind of look at someone, and if they're our age and wearing clothes that resemble the Harry style it's like, OK, these are people you can talk to who are nice."
"The term is 'Harry coded,"' explained Xoee Margolis, 26, who was wearing neon orange Adidas Gazelles (inspired by ones Mr. Styles wears from the Gucci/Adidas collaboration). She held two new Beachwood Market totes in her hand, which she'd seen while browsing the cafe's merch section online from her home in New York City. "Wearing a little cherry is an ode to the 'Cherry' song, carrying around a Beachwood bag the shoes are Harry-coded -- it's a vibe."
"I made the mistake of not bringing in merch earlier," said the cafe's owner, Mike Fahim. But when he discovered eBay and Etsy accounts selling knockoff merchandise for his restaurant, he saw a business opportunity.
When Mr. Fahim took over the cafe in the fall of 2019, the crowd was a mix of locals, tourists headed to the nearby Hollywood sign, business lunches from film studios, and celebrities flying under the radar. In early 2020, the clientele started shifting to Gen Z girls and young women -- some of whom bring cardboard cutouts of Styles for photos -- and, in some cases, their parents.
Mr. Fahim, who had never heard of Harry Styles, embraced the affiliation.
Now, the tip jar says "Harry Tips Here." A sign depicted in a mural declares "The Coffee's Out," referring to the line in the song featuring Beachwood. And he and his staff are happy to take photos and answer fans' questions about what Mr. Styles is said to have eaten (the Beachwood Scramble), and where he sat (the table at the center of the room, and the booth in the far right corner). Someone on the staff monitors "the whole situation on Instagram and TikTok," Mr. Fahim said. If Mr. Styles is in town -- as he was for two weeks in the fall, when the cafe ran out of menu items and merchandise -- they double up on staff and supplies.
On the Saturday of Mr. Styles's concert run at the Forum, a line started forming outside of the cafe an hour before opening. It included Emma Szumowski, 21, from Massachusetts, who stood with her parents, Laura and Steve McMahon. The concert she'd gone to the previous evening was her sixth time seeing Mr. Styles. She had tickets for one more show in Los Angeles and two in Palm Springs that week.
"I get it, I'm a big Springsteen fan -- I started following him around in '84," said Mr. McMahon, 58, who, at his daughter's request, had gotten up early to be second in line.
The line snaked past the dry cleaners and into the square. At 8:40 a.m., Nicholas Braun, the actor who plays Cousin Greg on "Succession," joined it -- appearing slightly bewildered by the crowd -- and then left before he was seated.
Across the street, Jim Krantz, 67, and Brian Burchfield, 59, Beachwood Canyon residents, stood outside the Hollywoodland Realty building, taking in the scene.
"I mean, this was like 'Mayberry R.F.D.' -- but not anymore," said Mr. Krantz, sipping a mug of tea and referencing the 1968 spinoff of "The Andy Griffith Show" -- a sentence likely to draw a blank with the teenage girls filming their breakfast burritos across the street.
"I think it's fascinating, a social phenomenon," he added. "But it's a bit of an inconvenience when it comes to being able to do your daily life up here."
Wait times were between two and three hours throughout the weekend. At one point on Saturday, the diners inside the cafe broke out into a loud rendition of "Falling." Before the wave of Styles fans, Mr. Fahim typically served 300 guests from Friday to Sunday; he now serves 1,000 on average. The locals still come, but they often grumble about the wait times and lack of parking -- and if they see a line, they steer clear.
Most fans agreed that this was no longer a place where Mr. Styles was likely to set foot. This realization sometimes prompted fan conspiracy theories -- did he mention the cafe because he knew it would send fans flocking there, and it was too painful a place to return because of its romantic history there? But even if that were the case, "it's cool to envision him sitting in there being all sad and lonely," said Bryn Langrock, 23.
And if Mr. Styles did dine at Beachwood Cafe again, Mr. Fahim says he knows what he'd tell him: "Thank you."
Photograph Marley Williams of Claremore, Okla., and Noelle Jay of Chicago at Beachwood Cafe. (ST1); This article appeared in print on page Beachwood Cafe in Los Angeles, where Harry Styles once ordered eggs, is now a destination for his fans, thanks to a lyric, "And the coffee's out at the Beachwood Cafe." The twins Jennifer Sata Ayala and Jessica Sata Ayala, below, came from Guanajuato, Mexico, to see him in concert and visit the cafe. Some fans bring mini-Harrys. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCESCA FORQUET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST4) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST4.

Subject: Families & family life; Restaurants; Coffee

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Beachwood Canyon; Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/04/style/harry-styles-fans-beachwood-cafe.html

Title: Harry Styles Ate Here. Fans Flock.:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347534

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-fans-flock/docview/2775347534/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Vivid Reflections on 50 Years of Hip-Hop Style: [Style Desk]

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vivid-reflections-on-50-years-hip-hop-style/docview/2775347513/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A proud crowd of hip-hop style pioneers gathered at the Museum at F.I.T. on Tuesday night to toast the opening of a show that celebrates the history and evolution of hip-hop fashion. The exhibition, "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: 50 Years of Hip Hop Style," documents the fashion genre's humble origins from its beginnings in the Bronx in the early 1970s to its crossover into the mainstream as a dominant and lucrative international force.
The guest list was filled with early streetwear designers, old-school rappers, graffiti artists and hip-hop historians. Visitors sipped champagne while a DJ played retro hits like "Juicy" by The Notorious B.I.G. (The late rapper's son, C.J. Wallace, was in attendance.) The mood was triumphant: No one disputes the Timberland boot's enduring influence on street fashion, but it's another thing entirely to see one trapped beneath a museum display case. Other pieces included an Adidas tracksuit, Lee jeans, Kangol caps and jackets tailored by Dapper Dan. When the Harlem haberdasher himself arrived at the event wearing a red blazer and hat, he could barely walk through the exhibition, getting accosted for selfies at every turn.
The show (which is accompanied by a Rizzoli Electa book) was curated by Elizabeth Way and Elena Romero. "Fashion is the original sixth element of hip-hop," Ms. Romero said. "Aspirations become a reality through what we wear. From nameplates to chains, it's a way of being seen, and wearing the right clothes is a way to announce yourself to the world."
We asked attendees to name pieces -- and coveted items dubbed grails -- that they believe have contributed to hip-hop fashion history and to share who they think is carrying the torch for hip-hop style today.
Interviews were edited.
Dapper Dan
What do you consider an important and historic hip-hop fashion grail? Back in the day, you'd come to Dapper Dan, and the height of being accomplished was having the snorkel jacket. The snorkel is eternal. It showed that you had arrived at the top.
Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today? ASAP Rocky. He doesn't even need to have another hit. He is the swaggiest.
April Walker
What's an iconic hip-hop fashion piece? The Carhartt jacket. It's timeless and will still be timeless years from now. It's work wear but it's also fashion, function and fit. You can dress it up and dress it down. It tells a story beautifully.
Thoughts on a significant hip-hop fashion crossover moment? For me it's a personal one: when Mike Tyson walked out into a fight wearing Walker Wear and my work as a designer suddenly graced a heavyweight boxing ring -- he and I are both Brooklyn cats.
Misa Hylton
What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion grail? The Louis Vuitton snorkel coat by Dapper Dan. It captures the aspirational epitome of hip-hop.
Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today? I love Teyana Taylor's style because it's tomboy-chic rooted in hip-hop. I like how she plays with gender and feminizes the masculine nature of hip-hop. I also like Flo Milli. She's a beautiful chocolate queen who embraces femininity in new ways that pay homage to women in hip-hop who came before her.
Beau McCall
What's an iconic hip-hop fashion piece? The Timberland boot. Long before it became popular, my brother owned a pair, and no one even knew what they were. It was just a work boot. A couple years later, hip-hop grabbed onto the Timberland, and it became the ultimate fashion statement in the hood.
Thoughts on a significant crossover moment? Foxy Brown appeared in a Calvin Klein ad on the SoHo billboard in the 1990s. I went down to SoHo just to see that billboard. She was causing traffic.
Peter "Souleo" Wright
Who do you consider a hip-hop style pioneer? Queen Latifah's Afrocentric style. It's important because she was celebrating the African diaspora and our lineage and she helped bring that into hip-hop. That was new to me when I was a kid and it made me want to learn more about my history.
Sola Olosunde
What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion piece? It's recent, but I'd say the dress that Young Thug wore on the cover of "Jeffery." He defied gender norms in a space where gender norms are pretty enforced. There's an idea of hyper-masculinity in hip-hop and wearing that dress and umbrella hat went against those norms.
Anyone you'd like to shout out? Doja Cat. She provokes conversation in what she wears. She makes herself into a spectacle. And that's needed because rappers aren't as out there anymore. They're not as original as they used to be with their style.
C.J. Wallace
Thoughts on a historic hip-hop fashion piece? The Versace shades that my dad used to wear. It's just an iconic piece. It came to symbolize hip-hop for me when I was growing up as a kid.
Do you have a shout out? Sober Yung Walter. He's always pushing it. He's the coolest guy pushing the boundaries right now.
Kid Freeze
What do you think is an iconic hip-hop fashion piece? The nameplate. When you went into clubs with one, people saw it. You were going as yourself. It was a way of putting significance on your own name. Showing who you are.
Thoughts on a significant crossover moment? When the Dynamic Rockers battled the Rock Steady Crew. It was the first big break dancing battle and it happened in the early 1980s at Lincoln Center. I was in the Dynamic Rockers.
General Steele
Thoughts on a hip-hop style grail? I'm biased, but for me, it would be the Helly Hansen I wore in the Smif-N-Wessun music video for "Wrekonize." We shot it in my neighborhood of Brownsville in Brooklyn and all I can think of is the little kids who were so excited to see me wearing it. The fashion was electrifying, fabulous and aspirational to them.
What about a significant crossover moment? For me, that would be the success of Slick Rick. He gave us the format of what to wear, from Gucci to Polo cologne. He was giving us game early.
Photograph Souleo, center, and Marisol Deluna at the opening of the show "Fresh, Fly, and Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip-Hop Style" on Tuesday at the Museum at F.I.T. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTA SCHLUETER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Automobile shows; Rap music; World music; Hip hop music; Museums; Gender

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/09/style/hip-hop-style-history-fashion-institute-technology.html

Title: Vivid Reflections on 50 Years of Hip-Hop Style:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347513

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vivid-reflections-on-50-years-hip-hop-style/docview/2775347513/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Husband, Father, Businessman, Social Voice. He Also Plays Quarterback.: [Sports Desk]

Author: Drape, Joe

Publication info: Drape, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/husband-father-businessman-social-voice-he-also/docview/2774744469/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mahomes, known for his sense of fun and improvisation on the field, has become a kind of elder statesman, settled in his family life, his business endeavors and his community.
Patrick Mahomes entered the N.F.L. with all the gravitas of a fifth grader playing touch football at recess. He escaped from the pocket like Houdini and contorted himself like Gumby, whipping the ball around as if he thought the game was supposed to be fun, not just the rote execution of a militaristic offensive scheme.
He was just 22 at the start of his first full season as the Kansas City Chiefs' starting quarterback. Today, after five Pro Bowl selections, a Super Bowl victory and two Most Valuable Player Awards, winning this season's honor Thursday, Mahomes somehow still seems 22: He remains exuberant and unrehearsed, the player to watch on Sunday when Kansas City meets Philadelphia in the Super Bowl in Glendale, Ariz.
But something happened to Mahomes on the playground: He grew up.
Now 27, he arrives at his third Super Bowl as a man in full -- a businessman, a beloved figure and meaningful contributor to his adopted hometown and a confident voice on race issues. And with the (apparent) retirement of Tom Brady, he is something like an elder statesman at quarterback, older and more settled than Josh Allen, Joe Burrow and Lamar Jackson (all 26), Justin Herbert and Jalen Hurts (both 24) and Trevor Lawrence (23).
"I have two kids now, I'm married," Mahomes said. "I'm kind of an old soul."
It is strange to think of Mahomes that way, given that he plays quarterback as if he had drawn his receivers' routes in the dirt with a stick. But the evidence of his maturity is everywhere, particularly in Kansas City, where he is on his way to becoming the kind of personage that Jim Kelly is in Buffalo and Roger Staubach is in Dallas.
He has invested heavily in the city's sports franchises, becoming a minority owner of Major League Baseball's Kansas City Royals and Major League Soccer's Sporting Kansas City. He also recently joined his wife, Brittany, as a co-owner of the city's professional women's soccer team, the Current.
In a city with a long record of racial discrimination, Mahomes has focused on equality. In 2019, Kansas City, Mo., voters decided by a wide margin in 2019 to change the name of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard back to its original name, Paseo Boulevard. Mahomes and his foundation, 15 and the Mahomies, then put up more than $ 1 million and teamed with the parks department to build a playground in an area where Black residents have long lived because discriminatory housing covenants kept them out of other neighborhoods.
Today at the playground in Martin Luther King Jr. Square Park, middle schoolers scramble on red and yellow jungle gyms and toddlers squeal as the lime green carousel spins. Grown-ups read King's inspirational quotations embedded on its surrounding rock walls.
So far, Mahomes's foundation has given more than $ 2.7 million through 125 grants to organizations aimed at helping children in underserved areas.
"The foundation has been pretty intentional about its focus on social justice," said Marques Fitch, one of its board members.
Mahomes -- whose father, Pat, a former pitcher in the big leagues, is Black and whose mother, Randi, is white -- has been candid about race issues in the N.F.L. as well. In 2020, he was among the star players who produced a video asking the league to admit that its response to player protests of police brutality was wrong and to condemn racism and affirm its support for Black lives.
The next day, Commissioner Roger Goodell released his own video admitting that the league was wrong and saying he stood with the players.
Before the 2020 elections, Mahomes and a teammate, Tyrann Mathieu, asked the Chiefs to partner with RISE, a nonpartisan organization that educates athletes about voting and registers them to vote. Mahomes -- who, in a perhaps belated sign of maturation, was voting for the first time -- contributed to the six-figure cost of buying new voting machines so Arrowhead Stadium could serve as a polling location.
"For a young person to become the conscience of the community of where he works and lives is already impressive," Alvin Brooks said of Mahomes. Brooks, 90, a former police officer and City Council member, has been at the center of civil rights battles in Kansas City for decades.
"He makes good money and is spending some of it to do good," Brooks said. "He is not only going to continue to grow in his craft, he is going to grow in his consciousness."
In training camp this season, Mahomes spoke up for himself and other Black quarterbacks after he read an article in which an unidentified coach asserted he was not an elite quarterback because "he plays street ball."
"Obviously, the Black quarterback has had to battle to be in this position that we are to have this many guys in the league playing," Mahomes said. On Sunday, he will face the Eagles' Hurts, the first time two Black quarterbacks will start in a Super Bowl.
"Every day, we're proving that we should have been playing the whole time," Mahomes continued. "We've got guys that can think just as well as they can use their athleticism. It's always weird when you see guys like me and Kyler" -- a reference to Arizona Cardinals quarterback Kyler Murray -- "kind of get that on them when other guys don't."
Along with personal growth, Mahomes has experienced rapid growth in his bank account and the size of his household. In 2020, he signed a 10-year contract extension, worth $ 503 million, with Kansas City. He is also a well-paid pitchman (he earned $ 22 million in endorsements last year, according to Forbes), popping into our living rooms often to sell State Farm insurance.
On Nov. 28, Patrick and Brittany Mahomes had their second child, a boy, Patrick Lavon Mahomes III. His nickname, Bronze, was suggested by Patrick Mahomes's younger brother, Jackson, as a way to link the boy with his sister, Sterling, who is almost 2.
"We wanted them to have that connection and them to be brother and sister forever," Mahomes said.
None of this escapes the attention of the media, and that presents a challenge for Mahomes. The birth of his children, his off-season trips (the purse he wore to the Coachella music festival was widely mocked) and his family's social media accounts are closely tracked by People, Us Weekly and other outlets in the celebrity industrial complex.
Perhaps in response, Mahomes has become sophisticated about shaping his image. When he and Brittany bought their home in Kansas City (the first either had owned), Mahomes showed off his collection of 180 pairs of sneakers in a YouTube video that portrayed him as easygoing and a little dazzled by his own good fortune. More recently, Mahomes introduced his own shoe designed with Adidas with a brief and highly produced Instagram post.
Mahomes is still working on how to balance his family life with his other obligations. He grew up accompanying his father to the ballpark over his 11 M.L.B. seasons. When Pat Mahomes played for the Texas Rangers, a young Patrick would put baseballs on hitting tees for Alex Rodriguez for hours as the shortstop worked on his swing.
Mahomes vowed to emulate that commitment. With everything happening in his life now, he said, he is more conscious of wasted time, especially when it comes to Sterling and Bronze.
"I still have the same mind-set and the same process that I go through any and every week," he said. "But trying to find those little moments where I just spent a little bit more time is always something that I prioritize."
If new priorities, sleep-deprived nights or occasional subpar performances have distracted the quarterback, his teammates have not noticed.
"I don't think that's ever going to slow him down," tight end Travis Kelce said. "Pat pushes through that kind of stuff. He stays accountable to the guys around him."
Kansas City Coach Andy Reid said Mahomes knows that the organization and the community are asking more of him than merely being the best quarterback in the N.F.L.
"When you are famous and when you are a new dad and all of these other things he's already gone through, that's a unique position because you're the face of the organization," Reid said. "It's important that you handle it."
Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Photograph Patrick Mahomes already has a résumé that compares with any of the game's greats, but he still laments having to answer to stereotypes about Black quarterbacks as more athletic than strategic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENC/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Now 27 with two kids, Patrick Mahomes is "an old soul." (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN C. COX/GETTY IMAGES) (B7); As the son of a professional athlete, Patrick Mahomes knows the importance of family time. He also is devoted to his teammates and is creating a lasting bond with the people of Kansas City. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID EULITT/GETTY IMAGES; CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) This article appeared in print on page B7, B8.

Subject: Local elections; Playgrounds; Racial discrimination; Professional soccer; Video recordings; Social networks; Professional baseball; Families & family life; Coaches & managers

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Kansas City Missouri

People: Mahomes, Patrick; King, Martin Luther Jr (1929-1968)

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/09/sports/football/patrick-mahomes-super-bowl-maturity.html

Title: Husband, Father, Businessman, Social Voice. He Also Plays Quarterback.:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 10, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--Unit ed States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774744469

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/husband-father-businessman-social-voice-he-also/docview/2774744469/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50: [Correction]

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2776885329/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A museum exhibition and book kick off the anniversary of a genre incubated in the Bronx and exported to the world.
"Everything is a flashback," Syreeta Gates said last week. "That's the way it always is with our culture. Black folks are going to see what's out there, take it and remix it for themselves and transform it into something else."
Ms. Gates, the archivist and founder of the Gates Preserve, a core source of historical material from the 50-year evolution of hip-hop, was referring to an art form "created, maintained and valued by nonwhite poor folks." She was also talking about hip-hop style.
That the genre and its look are indivisibly linked was never clearer than during last Sunday's Grammys, when a 15-minute musical medley brought together a panoply of hip-hop artists, styles, eras and regional variations, with performers as disparate as LL Cool J, Rakim, Queen Latifah and Lil Baby crowding the Crypto.com Arena stage.
It was a dizzying convergence, musically and visually. And it was one that served, in a sense, as a portal to a yearlong celebration of a genre whose true origins are traceable to a back-to-school party in the rec room of a Bronx apartment building in 1973. Decades afterward, the rap scholar Tricia Rose would note in "Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America" how skeptical the mainstream initially was to music most thought was a fad. That is, until the indie producer Sylvia Robinson released the hit song "Rapper's Delight" in 1979.
Over the next five years rap was "discovered" and then ever afterward embraced by a variety of industries, none more enthusiastically than fashion, which mined, adapted and appropriated hip-hop style until, eventually, conceding to it commercial primacy. It is no secret that hardly a designer working today has not at some point dipped into the slipstream of hip-hop for inspiration.
And the unstated goal of "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip Hop Style," an exhibition that opened this week at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology (accompanied by a book from Rizzoli Electa), is to track the transformation of an art form born, as the curators Elena Romero and Elizabeth Way wrote, "of the segregation and oppression of communities of color within American urban centers" to its current status as a multibillion-dollar industry and the cultural powerhouse the Grammys put on display.
It is also giving credit where it is long overdue. "The mainstream didn't acknowledge hip-hop until the likes of Isaac Mizrahi and Karl Lagerfeld for Chanel showed collections inspired by hip-hop on their runways," Ms. Romero wrote in an email.
While designers like Tommy Hilfiger were quick to make connections to hip-hop with product placement on performers like Snoop Dogg in a 1994 performance on "Saturday Night Live," and brands like Cross Colours, Karl Kani, Walker Wear, Maurice Malone, Mecca USA and FUBU did somehow penetrate the mainstream, the establishment, Ms. Romero said, "frowned down upon" hip-hop, and for two primary reasons -- "who did the designing and who the intended customers were."
That trend has largely flipped, of course. Multinationals aggressively court fans of the genre, filling ad campaigns and their front rows with rap stars (if seldom staffing design studios with people of color).
Academe has also gotten in on the act, with Harvard and Cornell building archives dedicated to the complex and layered history of the genre. And in 2014, as Ms. Way noted, the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History added the rapper and producer Slick Rick's (Richard Martin Lloyd Walters) birth certificate to its collection, along with a microphone belonging to the incandescent rapper Rakim (né William Michael Griffin Jr.).
In 2018, Kendrick Lamar became the first rapper to win the Pulitzer Prize. And last year ground was broken for a mixed-use development in the Bronx that encompasses the Universal Hip Hop Museum, all of it set to open in 2024.
Yet, even a half century into hip-hop history, there is a sense that in historiographic terms we are at the beginning. "There are so many unsung heroes," Ms. Romero said. Even among lauded progenitors of hip-hop style -- storied designers like Daniel R. Day, whose Dapper Dan collaborations with Gucci brought him global renown -- there is an inexhaustible trove of histories yet to tap and discoveries to make.
Last week Mr. Day said that when he was a boy, it was still commonplace for "us poor kids" to swim in the Harlem River, diving from a dock on the Manhattan side of the flow and then paddling to a nearby sandbank.
"We always threw in a stick from a Popsicle to pay attention to which way the current was moving," said Mr. Day, whose innovative designs fused natty tailoring with home-printed bootleg logo fabrics that copied those manufactured by luxury labels like Fendi, Gucci and Louis Vuitton. "And that was my same philosophy of fashion: Follow the flow."
Before being driven underground by anti-counterfeit squads, Mr. Day sold his designs to Harlem high rollers from a Harlem storefront. Many of his best customers happened to be gangsters. And some, like the drug kingpin James Jackson, while notoriously feared for their for brutality, were widely emulated for their style.
"All that gold and diamonds people associate with the rappers, all the O.G. stuff, it's a holdover from people like Jackson," Mr. Day said. "He always had the flyest furs, the flyest cars, the flyest jewelry. He was the first one to come in with Louis Vuitton."
Alas, there is relatively little bling in the F.I.T. show, and so perhaps some other costume institution will one day mount a flashy display of massive gold dookie chains and gem-studded brass knuckle rings from Jacob Arabo, a.k.a. Jacob the Jeweler, or else glittering multimillion-dollar Lorraine Schwartz danglers like those that Beyoncé wore for her recent performance in Dubai. Or even the wild dental grills created by the Vietnamese American jeweler Johnny Dang.
What the show's curators assembled instead, from 50 private lenders, is a relatively low key, although no less affecting, display of designs representative of styles created, adapted or innovated among small groups that tended to find one another almost exclusively through word of mouth. "There would be this one party that five people were talking about all week," said Ms. Gates, who grew up in St. Albans, Queens, another neighborhood where rap was incubated in its early days. "OK, maybe there was a flyer -- maybe."
There are Dapper Dan jackets with insets of MCM fabric, Cross Colours knit caps, Kangol bucket hats like those LL Cool J made famous. From Ralph Lauren's fall 1998 collection there are ski parkas that were once called suicide jackets because, as Ms. Way explained, "if you wore one, you were sure to get robbed."
There are Lee jeans with the creases sewn in, monogram belt buckles of the sort sold at Times Square novelty shops. There are Afrocentric kufi-style hats of kente cloth like those Salt-N-Pepa wore on tour (with customized varsity jackets, ankle boots and tights). There are shearling coats and shell-toe Adidas, like those worn by Run DMC, and a case filled with the highly coveted record label lanyards that guaranteed backstage access when rap shows were still held in arenas and armories.
There are clothes that look generic to the point of insignificance unless, as Monica Lynch, the former head of Tommy Boy Records, explained by phone, "you understood the subtleties."
The "color story" of the early 1980s, for instance, was burgundy, said Ms. Lynch, who consults these days with Sotheby's on auctions of the hip-hop memorabilia that is increasingly sought by collectors. "Then gray was really big. It was simple things. The Lee jeans were perfectly pressed. The sneakers had to be the right sneakers. People were perfectly turned out on no money at all. They shopped at outdoor circular racks on Fordham Road to get things for $ 19 bucks."
They shopped at a place that called itself the "cheapest sneaker store in America," an all-but-unimaginable concept in an era of astronomically expensive collector kicks.
"They shopped at the Albee Square Mall in Brooklyn or the Coliseum Mall in Queens or on 125th Street," Ms. Lynch said. "It wasn't the money. It was what they could do with it."
Clothes tell stories, and the narrative composed in "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous," as Ms. Gates remarked, is one built on the sort of accounts history too often overlooks. "There's this patchwork quilt culture being created by a group of Black and brown young people with few options and fewer resources," all making their dash for a version of the American dream.
For the photographer and hip-hop chronicler Jamel Shabazz, those early days were jubilant times. "We would gather up on a Saturday afternoon, the D.J.s would come out and hook equipment up to a lamp post," he said. "Yes, the city was turbulent. And, yes, we still had a problem with heroin. But there weren't guns yet, and people would go to the barbershop, go to Delancey Street for the flyest gear and then come together for a feel-good time dressed in their very best."
Photograph Dressed to turn heads with hip-hop style on the Lower East Side in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMEL SHABAZZ) (D1); Top row, from left: Kool K and Lee Rock in 2019; a personalized belt buckle; and the group Salt-N-Pepa, known for being committed hip-hop style maximalists. Second row, from left: Timberland boots; Air Jordan shoes; tracksuits, Lee jeans with the crease ironed (or sewn) in, and discount shearlings bought on Delancey Street; and door knocker earrings. Bottom row, from left: April Walker custom jacket, custom jeans and leather pendant and "Black Bart" T-shirt; LL Cool J in 1986; Gucci bag; and Kangol hat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMEL SHABAZZ; EILEEN COSTA/THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Archives & records; Rap music; Design; Genre; Hip hop music; Hip hop culture; Designers; Luxuries; Museum exhibits; Brands; American culture

Business indexing term: Subject: Brands

Location: United States--US

People: LL Cool J (James Todd Smith)

Title: Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 9, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2776885329

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2776885329/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50: [Correction]

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774386319/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A museum exhibition and book kick off the anniversary of a genre incubated in the Bronx and exported to the world.
"Everything is a flashback," Syreeta Gates said last week. "That's the way it always is with our culture. Black folks are going to see what's out there, take it and remix it for themselves and transform it into something else."
Ms. Gates, the archivist and founder of the Gates Preserve, a core source of historical material from the 50-year evolution of hip-hop, was referring to an art form "created, maintained and valued by nonwhite poor folks." She was also talking about hip-hop style.
That the genre and its look are indivisibly linked was never clearer than during last Sunday's Grammys, when a 15-minute musical medley brought together a panoply of hip-hop artists, styles, eras and regional variations, with performers as disparate as LL Cool J, Rakim, Queen Latifah and Lil Baby crowding the Crypto.com Arena stage.
It was a dizzying convergence, musically and visually. And it was one that served, in a sense, as a portal to a yearlong celebration of a genre whose true origins are traceable to a birthday party in the Bronx projects in 1973. Decades afterward, the rap scholar Tricia Rose would note in "Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America" how skeptical the mainstream initially was to music most thought was a fad. That is, until the indie producer Sylvia Robinson released the hit song "Rapper's Delight" in 1979.
Over the next five years rap was "discovered" and then ever afterward embraced by a variety of industries, none more enthusiastically than fashion, which mined, adapted and appropriated hip-hop style until, eventually, conceding to it commercial primacy. It is no secret that hardly a designer working today has not at some point dipped into the slipstream of hip-hop for inspiration.
And the unstated goal of "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip Hop Style," an exhibition that opened this week at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology (accompanied by a book from Rizzoli Electa), is to track the transformation of an art form born, as the curators Elena Romero and Elizabeth Way wrote, "of the segregation and oppression of communities of color within American urban centers" to its current status as a multibillion-dollar industry and the cultural powerhouse the Grammys put on display.
It is also giving credit where it is long overdue. "The mainstream didn't acknowledge hip-hop until the likes of Isaac Mizrahi and Karl Lagerfeld for Chanel showed collections inspired by hip-hop on their runways," Ms. Romero wrote in an email.
While designers like Tommy Hilfiger were quick to make connections to hip-hop with product placement on performers like Snoop Dogg in a 1994 performance on "Saturday Night Live," and brands like Cross Colours, Karl Kani, Walker Wear, Maurice Malone, Mecca USA and FUBU did somehow penetrate the mainstream, the establishment, Ms. Romero said, "frowned down upon" hip-hop, and for two primary reasons -- "who did the designing and who the intended customers were."
That trend has largely flipped, of course. Multinationals aggressively court fans of the genre, filling ad campaigns and their front rows with rap stars (if seldom staffing design studios with people of color).
Academe has also gotten in on the act, with Harvard and Cornell building archives dedicated to the complex and layered history of the genre. And in 2014, as Ms. Way noted, the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History added the rapper and producer Slick Rick's (Richard Martin Lloyd Walters) birth certificate to its collection, along with a microphone belonging to the incandescent rapper Rakim (né William Michael Griffin Jr.).
In 2018, Kendrick Lamar became the first rapper to win the Pulitzer Prize. And last year ground was broken for a mixed-use development in the Bronx that encompasses the Universal Hip Hop Museum, all of it set to open in 2024.
Yet, even a half century into hip-hop history, there is a sense that in historiographic terms we are at the beginning. "There are so many unsung heroes," Ms. Romero said. Even among lauded progenitors of hip-hop style -- storied designers like Daniel R. Day, whose Dapper Dan collaborations with Gucci brought him global renown -- there is an inexhaustible trove of histories yet to tap and discoveries to make.
Last week Mr. Day said that when he was a boy, it was still commonplace for "us poor kids" to swim in the Harlem River, diving from a dock on the Manhattan side of the flow and then paddling to a nearby sandbank.
"We always threw in a stick from a Popsicle to pay attention to which way the current was moving," said Mr. Day, whose innovative designs fused natty tailoring with home-printed bootleg logo fabrics that copied those manufactured by luxury labels like Fendi, Gucci and Louis Vuitton. "And that was my same philosophy of fashion: Follow the flow."
Before being driven underground by anti-counterfeit squads, Mr. Day sold his designs to Harlem high rollers from a Harlem storefront. Many of his best customers happened to be gangsters. And some, like the drug kingpin James Jackson, while notoriously feared for their for brutality, were widely emulated for their style.
"All that gold and diamonds people associate with the rappers, all the O.G. stuff, it's a holdover from people like Jackson," Mr. Day said. "He always had the flyest furs, the flyest cars, the flyest jewelry. He was the first one to come in with Louis Vuitton."
Alas, there is relatively little bling in the F.I.T. show, and so perhaps some other costume institution will one day mount a flashy display of massive gold dookie chains and gem-studded brass knuckle rings from Jacob Arabo, a.k.a. Jacob the Jeweler, or else glittering multimillion-dollar Lorraine Schwartz danglers like those that Beyoncé wore for her recent performance in Dubai. Or even the wild dental grills created by the Vietnamese American jeweler Johnny Dang.
What the show's curators assembled instead, from 50 private lenders, is a relatively low key, although no less affecting, display of designs representative of styles created, adapted or innovated among small groups that tended to find one another almost exclusively through word of mouth. "There would be this one party that five people were talking about all week," said Ms. Gates, who grew up in St. Albans, Queens, another neighborhood where rap was incubated in its early days. "OK, maybe there was a flyer -- maybe."
There are Dapper Dan jackets with insets of MCM fabric, Cross Colours knit caps, Kangol bucket hats like those LL Cool J made famous. From Ralph Lauren's fall 1998 collection there are ski parkas that were once called suicide jackets because, as Ms. Way explained, "if you wore one, you were sure to get robbed."
There are Lee jeans with the creases sewn in, monogram belt buckles of the sort sold at Times Square novelty shops. There are Afrocentric kufi-style hats of kente cloth like those Salt-N-Pepa wore on tour (with customized varsity jackets, ankle boots and tights). There are shearling coats and shell-toe Adidas, like those worn by Run DMC, and a case filled with the highly coveted record label lanyards that guaranteed backstage access when rap shows were still held in arenas and armories.
There are clothes that look generic to the point of insignificance unless, as Monica Lynch, the former head of Tommy Boy Records, explained by phone, "you understood the subtleties."
The "color story" of the early 1980s, for instance, was burgundy, said Ms. Lynch, who consults these days with Sotheby's on auctions of the hip-hop memorabilia that is increasingly sought by collectors. "Then gray was really big. It was simple things. The Lee jeans were perfectly pressed. The sneakers had to be the right sneakers. People were perfectly turned out on no money at all. They shopped at outdoor circular racks on Fordham Road to get things for $ 19 bucks."
They shopped at a place that called itself the "cheapest sneaker store in America," an all-but-unimaginable concept in an era of astronomically expensive collector kicks.
"They shopped at the Albee Square Mall in Brooklyn or the Coliseum Mall in Queens or on 125th Street," Ms. Lynch said. "It wasn't the money. It was what they could do with it."
Clothes tell stories, and the narrative composed in "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous," as Ms. Gates remarked, is one built on the sort of accounts history too often overlooks. "There's this patchwork quilt culture being created by a group of Black and brown young people with few options and fewer resources," all making their dash for a version of the American dream.
For the photographer and hip-hop chronicler Jamel Shabazz, those early days were jubilant times. "We would gather up on a Saturday afternoon, the D.J.s would come out and hook equipment up to a lamp post," he said. "Yes, the city was turbulent. And, yes, we still had a problem with heroin. But there weren't guns yet, and people would go to the barbershop, go to Delancey Street for the flyest gear and then come together for a feel-good time dressed in their very best."
Photograph Dressed to turn heads with hip-hop style on the Lower East Side in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMEL SHABAZZ) (D1); Top row, from left: Kool K and Lee Rock in 2019; a personalized belt buckle; and the group Salt-N-Pepa, known for being committed hip-hop style maximalists. Second row, from left: Timberland boots; Air Jordan shoes; tracksuits, Lee jeans with the crease ironed (or sewn) in, and discount shearlings bought on Delancey Street; and door knocker earrings. Bottom row, from left: April Walker custom jacket, custom jeans and leather pendant and "Black Bart" T-shirt; LL Cool J in 1986; Gucci bag; and Kangol hat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMEL SHABAZZ; EILEEN COSTA/THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; EILEEN COSTA/THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Archives & records; Rap music; Genre; Hip hop music; Hip hop culture; Music history

Location: United States--US; Bronx New York

Title: Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 9, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774386319

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774386319/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hip-Hop, Still Fly at 50

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774338004/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
“Everything is a flashback,” Syreeta Gates said last week. “That’s the way it always is with our culture. Black folks are going to see what’s out there, take it and remix it for themselves and transform it into something else.”
Gates, the archivist and founder of the Gates Preserve, a core source of historical material from the 50-year evolution of hip-hop, was referring to an art form “created, maintained and valued by nonwhite poor folks.” She was also talking about hip-hop style.
That the genre and its look are indivisibly linked was never clearer than during last Sunday’s Grammys, when a 15-minute musical medley brought together a panoply of hip-hop artists, styles, eras and regional variations, with performers as disparate as LL Cool J, Rakim, Queen Latifah and Lil Baby crowding the Crypto.com Arena stage.
It was a dizzying convergence, musically and visually. And it was one that served, in a sense, as a portal to a yearlong celebration of a genre whose true origins are traceable to a birthday party in the Bronx projects in 1973. Decades afterward, rap scholar Tricia Rose would note in “Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America” how skeptical the mainstream initially was to music most thought was a fad. That is, until producer Sylvia Robinson released the hit song “Rapper’s Delight” in 1979.
Over the next five years rap was “discovered’’ and then ever afterward embraced by a variety of industries, none more enthusiastically than fashion, which mined, adapted and appropriated hip-hop style until, eventually, conceding to it commercial primacy. It is no secret that hardly a designer working today has not at some point dipped into the slipstream of hip-hop for inspiration.
And the unstated goal of “Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip Hop Style,” an exhibition that opened this week at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology (accompanied by a book from Rizzoli Electa), is to track the transformation of an art form born, as curators Elena Romero and Elizabeth Way wrote, “of the segregation and oppression of communities of color within American urban centers” to its current status as a multibillion-dollar industry and the cultural powerhouse the Grammys put on display.
It is also giving credit where it is long overdue. “The mainstream didn’t acknowledge hip-hop until the likes of Isaac Mizrahi and Karl Lagerfeld for Chanel showed collections inspired by hip-hop on their runways,” Romero wrote in an email.
While designers like Tommy Hilfiger were quick to make connections to hip-hop with product placement on performers like Snoop Dogg in a 1994 performance on “Saturday Night Live,” and brands like Cross Colours, Karl Kani, Walker Wear, Maurice Malone, Mecca USA and FUBU did somehow penetrate the mainstream, the establishment, Romero said, “frowned down upon” hip-hop, and for two primary reasons — “who did the designing and who the intended customers were.”
That trend has largely flipped, of course. Multinationals aggressively court fans of the genre, filling ad campaigns and their front rows with rap stars (if seldom staffing design studios with people of color).
Academe has also gotten in on the act, with Harvard and Cornell building archives dedicated to the complex and layered history of the genre. And in 2014, as Way noted, the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History added rapper and producer Slick Rick’s (Richard Martin Lloyd Walters) birth certificate to its collection, along with a microphone belonging to the incandescent rapper Rakim (né William Michael Griffin Jr.).
In 2018, Kendrick Lamar became the first rapper to win the Pulitzer Prize. And last year ground was broken for a mixed-use development in the Bronx that encompasses the Universal Hip Hop Museum, all of it set to open in 2024.
Yet, even a half century into hip-hop history, there is a sense that in historiographic terms we are at the beginning. “There are so many unsung heroes,” Romero said. Even among lauded progenitors of hip-hop style — storied designers like Daniel R. Day, whose Dapper Dan collaborations with Gucci brought him global renown — there is an inexhaustible trove of histories yet to tap and discoveries to make.
Last week Day said that when he was a boy, it was still commonplace for “us poor kids” to swim in the Harlem River, diving from a dock on the Manhattan side of the flow and then paddling to a nearby sandbank.
“We always threw in a stick from a Popsicle to pay attention to which way the current was moving,” said Day, whose innovative designs fused natty tailoring with home-printed bootleg logo fabrics that copied those manufactured by luxury labels like Fendi, Gucci and Louis Vuitton. “And that was my same philosophy of fashion: Follow the flow.”
Before being driven underground by anti-counterfeit squads, Day sold his designs to Harlem high rollers from a Harlem storefront. Many of his best customers happened to be gangsters. And some, like drug kingpin James Jackson, while notoriously feared for their for brutality, were widely emulated for their style.
“All that gold and diamonds people associate with the rappers, all the OG stuff, it’s a holdover from people like Jackson,” Day said. “He always had the flyest furs, the flyest cars, the flyest jewelry. He was the first one to come in with Louis Vuitton.”
Alas, there is relatively little bling in the FIT show, and so perhaps some other costume institution will one day mount a flashy display of massive gold dookie chains and gem-studded brass knuckle rings from Jacob Arabo, aka Jacob the Jeweler, or else glittering multimillion-dollar Lorraine Schwartz danglers like those that Beyoncé wore for her recent performance in Dubai. Or even the wild dental grills created by Vietnamese American jeweler Johnny Dang.
What the show’s curators assembled instead, from 50 private lenders, is a relatively low key, although no less affecting, display of designs representative of styles created, adapted or innovated among small groups that tended to find one another almost exclusively through word-of-mouth. “There would be this one party that five people were talking about all week,” said Gates, who grew up in St. Albans, Queens, another neighborhood where rap was incubated in its early days. “OK, maybe there was a flyer — maybe.’’
There are Dapper Dan jackets with insets of MCM fabric, Cross Colours knit caps, Kangol bucket hats like those LL Cool J made famous. From Ralph Lauren’s fall 1998 collection there are ski parkas that were once called suicide jackets because, as Way explained, “if you wore one, you were sure to get robbed.”
There are Lee jeans with the creases sewn in, monogram belt buckles of the sort sold at Times Square novelty shops. There are Afrocentric kufi-style hats of kente cloth like those Salt-N-Pepa wore on tour (with customized varsity jackets, ankle boots and tights). There are shearling coats and shell-toe Adidas, like those worn by Run DMC, and a case filled with the highly coveted record label lanyards that guaranteed backstage access when rap shows were still held in arenas and armories.
There are clothes that look generic to the point of insignificance unless, as Monica Lynch, the former head of Tommy Boy Records, explained by phone, “you understood the subtleties.’’
The “color story” of the early 1980s, for instance, was burgundy, said Lynch, who consults these days with Sotheby’s on auctions of the hip-hop memorabilia that is increasingly sought by collectors. “Then gray was really big. It was simple things. The Lee jeans were perfectly pressed. The sneakers had to be the right sneakers. People were perfectly turned out on no money at all. They shopped at outdoor circular racks on Fordham Road to get things for 19 bucks.”
They shopped at a place that called itself the “cheapest sneaker store in America,” an all-but-unimaginable concept in an era of astronomically expensive collector kicks.
“They shopped at the Albee Square Mall in Brooklyn or the Coliseum Mall in Queens or on 125th Street,” Lynch said. “It wasn’t the money. It was what they could do with it.”
Clothes tell stories, and the narrative composed in “Fresh, Fly, Fabulous,” as Gates remarked, is one built on the sort of accounts history too often overlooks. “There’s this patchwork quilt culture being created by a group of Black and brown young people with few options and fewer resources,” all making their dash for a version of the American dream.
For the photographer and hip-hop chronicler Jamel Shabazz, those early days were jubilant times. “We would gather up on a Saturday afternoon, the DJs would come out and hook equipment up to a lamp post,” he said. “Yes, the city was turbulent. And, yes, we still had a problem with heroin. But there weren’t guns yet, and people would go to the barbershop, go to Delancey Street for the flyest gear and then come together for a feel-good time dressed in their very best.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rap music; Genre; Books; Clothing; Archives & records; Design; Hip hop music; Museums; Hip hop culture; Designers

People: Beckman, Janette; LL Cool J (James Todd Smith)

Company / organization: Name: Cross Colours; NAICS: 458110; Name: Salt-N-Pepa; NAICS: 711130

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Carolina Herrera Ltd; Knowles, Beyonce; Mizrahi, Isaac; Fashion Institute Of Technology; Smithsonian Institution; Trebay, Guy; Fendi Spa; Lagerfeld, Karl; Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Vietnam; CryptoCom (Foris Dax Inc); Adidas Ag; Sotheby's; Snoop Dogg; Times Square And 42nd Street (Manhattan, Ny); Universal Hip Hop Museum; Harlem River (Bronx Manhattan, Ny); Cornell University; Fordham University; Brown University; National Museum Of African American History And Culture; Shabazz, Jamel; Way, Elizabeth (Curator); Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years Of Hip Hop Style (Book); Suicide (Music Group); St Albans (Queens, Ny); Bronx (Nyc); Queens (Nyc); Run Dmc; Lamar, Kendrick; Rose (1997 ); Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Louis Vuitton; Gucci; Queen Latifah; Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Day, Daniel (Dapper Dan); Lil Baby (Rapper); Salt N Pepa; Ll Cool J; Walters, Ricky (1965 ); Fast Life Yungstaz; Chanel Sa; Culture (Arts); Colleges And Universities; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Design; Trademarks And Trade Names; Birthdays; Luxury Goods And Services; Counterfeit Merchandise; Auctions; Counterfeit Money And Financial Instruments; Fur; Pulitzer Prizes; Fans (Persons); Shopping And Retail; Coats And Jackets; Gold; Jewels And Jewelry; Textiles; Mixed Use Developments; Real Estate (Commercial); Advertising And Marketing; Jeans (Apparel); Area Planning And Renewal; Shoes And Boots; Corporate Social Responsibility; Art; Elections; Sneakers; Lynching; Archives And Records; Music; Theater; Vietnamese Americans; Museums; Black People; Fashion And Apparel

Title: Hip-Hop, Still Fly at 50

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-08 @ 18:05

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774338004

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774338004/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Mushrooms Allow Our Minds to Run Wild: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Rao, Tejal

Publication info: Rao, Tejal. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mushrooms-allow-our-minds-run-wild/docview/2774028158/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The fictional fungus in "The Last of Us" touched a collective nerve. When it comes to mushrooms, we just can't keep our cool.
It's grim, but in every post-apocalyptic story line, I wait for the moment when the characters float their theories about how the world fell apart, hoping to glean something useful.
In HBO's series "The Last of Us," survivors of a global pandemic live in harsh, government-controlled quarantine zones to evade a parasitic fungus that turns them into zombies. Joel, a smuggler in what remains of Boston, believes that the ophiocordyceps mutation was delivered through the food system -- contaminated batches of globally shipped flour or sugar spread the disease too quickly and efficiently for any kind of recall. Over the course of a long weekend, humanity was wrecked.
The setup sounds pretty conventional for the zombie-thriller genre, but since the series premiered in January, the response has been a bit sweaty -- panicked, even. Mycologists, fungal biologists and other mushroom-world experts have been called on, over and over, to assure us that while cordyceps species that zombify insects are real, a cordyceps mutation that thrives in humans is pure fiction.
What got us so rattled?
Paul Stamets, one of the country's best-known mycologists, enjoyed the first two episodes of the show, but posted afterward on Facebook to emphasize the fact that no, cordyceps really aren't capable of all that. "It is natural for humans to fear that which is powerful, but mysterious and misunderstood," he wrote, wondering if the show played on our deep-seated fear of mushrooms.
There are about 1.5 million species of fungi, a kingdom that is neither plant nor animal, and they're some of the strangest and most marvelous life-forms on the planet, both feared and revered. But our relationship with mushrooms, particularly in the West, can be fraught -- and not just because misidentifying one might be dangerous.
In nature, mushrooms happily appear under the grossest and most fractious circumstances, when little else will. They can signal death, thriving in damp, dark rot, blooming in decomposition and nimbly decaying organic matter. Never mind that this process is vital and regenerative (and, witnessed in a time-lapse, weirdly beautiful), it really freaks us out.
When the artist Jae Rhim Lee wondered if it was possible for us to make a collective cultural shift, to approach death and its rituals differently, and to make smaller environmental impacts when we die, she designed a burial suit seeded with mushrooms. Nothing could be more natural -- or more horrifyingly taboo -- than, instead of eating mushrooms, inviting the mushrooms to eat us.
Mushrooms have a way of making us consider the things we prefer to avoid. Though this hasn't stopped us from eating them -- mushrooms are an ancient food source.
The "stoned ape theory," which imagines fungus as central to our evolution, was animated in Louie Schwartzberg's terrifically pro-mushroom documentary, "Fantastic Fungi." One scene shows how early humans might have eaten mushrooms, including psychedelic ones, off animal dung as they tracked prey across the savanna, then collectively tripped their way toward language, weaponry, music and more.
Small, round buttons are the most cozy, familiar and recognizable of our edible mushrooms now, but there are hundreds of varieties we can eat (without tripping). In the pockets of wilderness around my home in Los Angeles, you might find brownish-orange candy caps; wild, yellowish frills of chanterelles; and clusters of long-gilled oyster mushrooms. After rain, in the shady nooks of my own backyard, I see shaggy parasols pop up from time to time, as if by magic.
In "The Last of Us" a warming climate weaponizes mushrooms against humans -- a global disaster of our own making. But in reality, if you scratch just below the surface of our fear, you'll find quite the opposite: an almost unreasonable expectation that mushrooms will rescue us, clean up our messes, do our dirty work and reverse all of the damage we're doing to the earth. It's true that there are species capable of breaking down oils in saltwater, absorbing radiation and cleaning toxins from the soil, though it's also true that they might have better things to do.
Mushrooms are the fruiting bodies of the mycelium, rootlike threads that connect underground in a vast mycorrhizal matrix so complex, intelligent and essential, Mr. Stamets has called it "the neurological network of nature."
That material, which also stores large amounts of carbon underground and can help plant life survive drought and other stress, is being used to develop alternatives to leathers, plastics, packaging and building materials. (Adidas made a concept shoe using a mycelium-based material last year, which led the company to discuss its "journey to create a more sustainable world.")
Lately, we expect mushrooms to save us, too. The zealous interest in adaptogenic mushrooms -- fungi species used medicinally for centuries in China and other parts of Asia -- has created an international market for lion's mane, reishi, chaga and cordyceps. We turn to mushrooms to ease our anxiety, to help us focus, to make us happier and more open-minded, to make us horny, to make our skin glow, to enhance our memory, to get us to sleep.
Mushrooms are magnificent. But maybe anxiety over a fictional fungus reflects a flickering awareness that we are, in fact, asking a bit too much of them.
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph Above, the fly agaric toadstool (Amanita muscari), which is a poisonous mushroom and the classic fairy-tale toadstool. Near right, a scene from "The Last of Us." Far right, feathery capped mushrooms. Below, bioluminescent mushrooms, which glow in the dark. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEIL BROMHALL/GETTY IMAGES; WARNER MEDIA; DEAGOSTINI PICTURE LIBRARY/GETTY IMAGES; IMAZINS/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D6.

Subject: Fungi; Mushrooms; Cooking

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/06/dining/mushrooms-last-of-us.html

Title: Mushrooms Allow Our Minds to Run Wild:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 8, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: Gener al Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774028158

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mushrooms-allow-our-minds-run-wild/docview/2774028158/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harry Styles Ate Here. His Fans Will Now Eat Here Forever.

Author: Creeden, Molly

Publication info: Creeden, Molly. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-his-fans-will-now-eat/docview/2772537192/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
At 9:30 a.m. on a Thursday, the Harrys began to arrive at Beachwood Cafe. Young women with neon hair extensions, colorful crocheted cardigans and shirts illustrated with cherries, sunflowers and the word “Pleasing” piled out of rental cars and Ubers. They were trailed by their mothers and filming on their phones. By 10:30, the mom-and pop eatery, which has been around since the 1970s in the heart of Los Angeles’ Beachwood Canyon, had a 30-minute wait, and a swarm of teenage girls taking photos in front of its blue door.
Who are the Harrys? They are Harry Styles superfans, and hordes of them have been making the pilgrimage to Beachwood Cafe, a cheerful spot with an all-day menu off a small village square, since December 2019. That’s when the superstar briefly name-checked the restaurant in the song “Falling”: “And the coffee’s out at the Beachwood Cafe,” he sang. That one line — which Styles-olgoists believe to be about his ex Camille Rowe, a former Beachwood Canyon resident — sent a bat signal.
“I just felt like coming here would complete the whole Harry Styles experience,” said Caysey Gossweiler, 27, who traveled from Maryland to attend one of the three concerts that Styles would perform at the Kia Forum that weekend in late January.
“It’s panic-inducing; I could literally evaporate thinking about it,” said Noelle Jay, 26, of being in the same space where Styles once ate eggs. “He’s like a god,” added her cousin Mia Tucci, 17, whose hair was a shade of Kelly green. “He’s like my comfort person, my light, my inspiration, all of the above,” Jay replied.
Nearby, Nathan Freeman, 26, and his wife, Shannon Freeman, 25, were taking photos of Taylor Anderson and Alyson Johnston — 20-year-old college students from Oregon they had just met. “It was like — where should we go for breakfast? Harry told us where to go!” Nathan Freeman said gleefully.
The couple, who wore matching crop top and bell bottom ensembles to attend the concert at the Forum, had spent the previous day at Sycamore Cove Beach in Malibu, where fans say Styles filmed the videos for “Watermelon Sugar” and the One Direction song “What Makes You Beautiful.”
“She ran and screamed and fan-girled,” Nathan Freeman said, describing his wife’s behavior upon arriving at the beach. “I was like, ah!” he shrieked. “I love this for you!”
Shannon Freeman said she admired Styles for his kindness. “I’ve never seen a scandal from him ever — which is amazing.”
Over avocado toast at a table inside, Anderson — who made her family do a detour during an Amalfi Coast vacation to visit a street where Styles filmed parts of the “Golden” music video (she found the location by searching Google Maps for landmarks in the background of the behind-the-scenes video) — offered her perspective on the fandom. “It’s a family in a lot of ways,” she said. “A good example of how the online world connects people.”
Johnston finished watching a video on her phone of Styles doing Pilates, via the fan account Harry Florals, and added: “You can just kind of look at someone, and if they’re our age and wearing clothes that resemble the Harry style it’s like, OK, these are people you can talk to who are nice.”
“The term is ‘Harry coded,’” explained Xoee Margolis, 26, who was wearing neon orange Adidas Gazelles (inspired by ones Styles wears from the Gucci/Adidas collaboration). She held two new Beachwood Market totes in her hand, which she’d seen while browsing the cafe’s merchandise section online from her home in New York City. “Wearing a little cherry is an ode to the ‘Cherry’ song, carrying around a Beachwood bag the shoes are Harry-coded — it’s a vibe.”
“I made the mistake of not bringing in merch earlier,” said the cafe’s owner, Mike Fahim. But when he discovered eBay and Etsy accounts selling knockoff merchandise for his restaurant, he saw a business opportunity.
When Fahim took over the cafe in fall 2019, the crowd was a mix of locals, tourists headed to the nearby Hollywood sign, business lunches from film studios, and celebrities flying under the radar. In early 2020, the clientele started shifting to Gen Z girls and young women — some of whom bring cardboard cutouts of Styles for photos — and, in some cases, their parents.
Fahim, who had never heard of Styles, embraced the affiliation.
Now, the tip jar says “Harry Tips Here.” A sign depicted in a mural declares “The Coffee’s Out,” referring to the line in the song featuring Beachwood. And he and his staff are happy to take photos and answer fans’ questions about what Styles is said to have eaten (the Beachwood Scramble), and where he sat (the table at the center of the room, and the booth in the far right corner). Someone on the staff monitors “the whole situation on Instagram and TikTok,” Fahim said. If Styles is in town — as he was for two weeks in the fall, when the cafe ran out of menu items and merchandise — they double up on staff and supplies.
On the Saturday of Styles’ concert run at the Forum, a line started forming outside the cafe an hour before opening. It included Emma Szumowski, 21, from Massachusetts, who stood with her parents, Laura and Steve McMahon. The concert she’d gone to the previous evening was her sixth time seeing Styles. She had tickets for one more show in Los Angeles and two in Palm Springs that week.
“I get it, I’m a big Springsteen fan — I started following him around in ’84,” said Steve McMahon, 58, who, at his daughter’s request, had gotten up early to be second in line.
The line snaked past the dry cleaners and into the square. At 8:40 a.m., Nicholas Braun, an actor who plays Cousin Greg on “Succession,” joined it — appearing slightly bewildered by the crowd — and then left before he was seated.
Across the street, Jim Krantz, 67, and Brian Burchfield, 59, Beachwood Canyon residents, stood outside the Hollywoodland Realty building, taking in the scene.
“I mean, this was like ‘Mayberry R.F.D.’ — but not anymore,” said Krantz, sipping a mug of tea and referencing the 1968 spinoff of “The Andy Griffith Show” — a sentence likely to draw a blank with the teenage girls filming their breakfast burritos across the street.
“I think it’s fascinating, a social phenomenon,” he added. “But it’s a bit of an inconvenience when it comes to being able to do your daily life up here.”
Wait times were between two and three hours throughout the weekend. At one point Saturday, the diners inside the cafe broke out into a loud rendition of “Falling.” Before the wave of Styles fans, Fahim typically served 300 guests from Friday to Sunday; he now serves 1,000 on average. The locals still come, but they often grumble about the wait times and lack of parking — and if they see a line, they steer clear.
Most fans agreed that this was no longer a place where Styles was likely to set foot. This realization sometimes prompted fan conspiracy theories — did he mention the cafe because he knew it would send fans flocking there, and it was too painful a place to return because of its romantic history there? But even if that were the case, “it’s cool to envision him sitting in there being all sad and lonely,” said Bryn Langrock, 23.
And if Styles did dine at Beachwood Cafe again, Fahim says he knows what he’d tell him: “Thank you.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Families & family life; Restaurants

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Beachwood Canyon; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Google Inc; Maryland; Griffith, Andy; Instagram Inc; Oregon; Massachusetts; Palm Springs (Calif); Ebay Inc; Etsy Inc; New York City; Google Maps; Tiktok (Bytedance); L A Forum (Inglewood, Calif); Kia Motors Corp; Cherry (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Adidas Ag; Los Angeles (Calif); Braun, Nicholas (1988 ); Styles, Harry; One Direction (Music Group); Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Cooking And Cookbooks; Beaches; Maps; Cryptography, Codes And Ciphers; Automobiles; Fruit; Generation Z; Exercise; Advertising And Marketing; Social Media; Computers And The Internet; Sugar; Youth; Music; Hair; Travel And Vacations; Teenagers And Adolescence; Restaurants; Parenting; Flowers And Plants; Fans (Persons); Movies; Handicrafts; Photography

Title: Harry Styles Ate Here. His Fans Will Now Eat Here Forever.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 4, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-04 @ 21:11

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772537192

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-his-fans-will-now-eat/docview/2772537192/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyrigh t New York Times Company Feb 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Secret Deal Imploded Over Antisemitic Lyrics: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Rosman, Katherine; Sisario, Ben; Constant Méheut

Publication info: Rosman, Katherine; Sisario, Ben; Constant Méheut. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/secret-deal-imploded-over-antisemitic-lyrics/docview/2772216758/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In 2021, the global music company BMG was looking for a hit in France's growing hip-hop market when its executives came up with a strategy: They would sign Freeze Corleone, a rising rapper on the Parisian scene with an aura of mystique, a hit album and more than a million monthly listeners on Spotify.
There was one problem. Freeze Corleone had been widely condemned in Europe for antisemitic lyrics. "I arrive determined like Adolf in the 1930s," he rapped in French in one 2018 song, and, in another, "Everything for the family, so that my children live like Jewish rentiers," a word often associated with landlords. Other tracks have included conspiracy theories about 9/11 and a shout-out to "the Aryans."
Just a year before BMG's deal with him, Freeze Corleone had been dropped by his previous label, the French arm of the giant Universal Music, which said that his music "amplified unacceptable racist statements."
"In order to mitigate the risk of possible controversy," BMG executives wrote in a memo, they had a workaround. The contract with Freeze Corleone stipulated that the label had the right to approve his lyrics and that it would keep BMG's involvement with his career hidden, according to documents and internal emails reviewed by The New York Times.
"No BMG logo anywhere on the release," Dominique Casimir, one of the company's most senior executives, emailed to a company lawyer and other executives.
She also demanded there would be no announcement heralding the deal. "No signing picture," Ms. Casimir wrote. "Sorry to be this strict."
A few weeks later, in October 2021, BMG signed a one-album deal with Freeze Corleone worth more than one million euros, or about $ 1.1 million.
In the end, BMG didn't put out the album. In a recent interview, Ms. Casimir said that she had decided to cancel the deal the day before the release of its first single.
But the story of BMG and Freeze Corleone raises questions about why BMG executives had signed him in the first place while going to great lengths to conceal the relationship. And it offers an object lesson in the temptations and risks corporations face when they seek to capitalize on the notoriety of pop-culture figures. That tension played out on a bigger stage last year when, amid a rising tide of antisemitism, Adidas ended its lucrative partnership with Kanye West after he made antisemitic comments.
In the interview, Ms. Casimir spoke about the challenges of monitoring a large pipeline of content at a multinational company; said that the decision to omit BMG's name from the album had been made mutually with the artist; and described BMG's ultimate decision to scrap its deal with Freeze Corleone as a sign that its content moderation policies had worked.
"People make mistakes," she said. "We caught the mistake. And whatever the outcome of that mistake is, we have to deal with that."
A Fraught History
This was not the first time that BMG, and Ms. Casimir, had to scramble to minimize damage over antisemitic lyrics.
In 2018, the company was at the center of a media firestorm over an album it had released the year before, "Jung Brutal Gutaussehend 3" ("Young Brutal Good-Looking 3"), by a pair of German rappers, Kollegah and Farid Bang. Despite lyrics like "My body is more defined than Auschwitz prisoners" and "make another Holocaust, show up with a Molotov," the LP had become a monster hit.
When that record (which BMG executives now refer to as "JBG") won best hip-hop/urban album at the Echo awards, Germany's equivalent of the Grammys, other artists revolted. Some, like the classical conductor Daniel Barenboim and Klaus Voormann, the musician and artist who worked with the Beatles, returned their prizes in protest. The media and politicians in Germany -- where there are strict laws against hate speech and Nazi propaganda -- zeroed in on the uproar. The Echo awards were discontinued permanently.
The rebuke was felt particularly strongly at BMG, which is part of the German media conglomerate Bertelsmann. In 2002, Bertelsmann had apologized for its past ties to the Nazi regime.
In response to the uproar, BMG said it would give 100,000 euros to a campaign against antisemitism. It sponsored a series of songwriting workshops centered on opposing hate speech through music.
Ms. Casimir, who had overseen the deal for "JBG" as the managing director of BMG's German market, became a public face of the company's campaign. "Given Germany's history, it is everyone's responsibility to take a stand against antisemitism and hate," she said in a news release.
The company enlisted the help of Ben Lesser, a Holocaust survivor who speaks to groups around the world through his Zachor Holocaust Remembrance Foundation. Soon after the awards, Mr. Lesser spent about three hours at a theater in Berlin, sharing his wrenching personal story with BMG employees and local schoolchildren, he and his daughter Gail Lesser-Gerber said in an interview.
BMG asked Mr. Lesser, now 94, to take part in a songwriting workshop in Los Angeles in early 2019. At the five-day event, he consulted with musicians as they wrote and recorded tracks with uplifting messages, including "Letter to the World," sung by Emily Vaughn.
The label let Mr. Lesser know that to support his efforts to eradicate antisemitism, it would give the foundation the revenue generated by the songs.
"Altogether, it's been less than $ 100," Ms. Lesser-Gerber said. But she said that money was not the incentive. "The motivation was to get the message out."
Lyrics About Hitler and Jews
Freeze Corleone rarely speaks to the news media. His real name is Issa Lorenzo Diakhaté, and he was born in a suburb of Paris in 1992. His father is Senegalese and his mother Italian. The rapper did not respond to numerous messages sent by email and social media requesting comment for this article. A business associate who helped him arrange his deal with BMG declined to comment.
Yet he speaks through his music. Rapping in a low voice, over minor-key piano figures, he performs a variation of drill, a hip-hop style often filled with dark tones and violent imagery.
Many of his lyrics feature standard hip-hop tropes, like allusions to sports and pop culture. On one track he rhymes the name of Larry Bird, the Boston Celtics legend, with that of Marty Byrde, the money launderer played by Jason Bateman on Netflix's "Ozark." But a thread of antisemitism runs throughout his work, manifested in Nazi references, dismissals of the Holocaust, and slurs and stereotypes about Jews.
He has boasted of having "the propaganda techniques of Goebbels" and "big ambitions" like "the young Adolf." In one song, "Le Chen," from 2016, he rapped: "I've got to get the khaliss moving in my community like a Jew." In Wolof, a language spoken in Senegal, where he spent time growing up, khaliss means money.
Olivier Lamm, a music critic for the French newspaper Libération, said that "the thematic substance of Freeze Corleone's rap is obsessively antisemitic." He cited an example from one of the rapper's early tracks in which he used a profanity in dismissing the Shoah -- a term for the Holocaust -- and pointed to lines on his latest album, "Riyad Sadio," that seem to refer to Israel and Jews, with key words bleeped out.
In 2020, Universal Music France released "La Menace Fantôme" ("The Phantom Menace"), which went double platinum in France, selling the equivalent of 200,000 copies there. Lyrics highlighted "Aryans," though did not explicitly address Jews.
But the album's popularity drew attention to Freeze Corleone's earlier lyrics about Hitler and Jewish landlords, and in the resulting controversy, he was dropped by Universal.
"Finally free," the rapper tweeted.
Freeze Corleone's name on a marquee continues to draw protests. A concert planned for late last year in Montreal was canceled after it drew condemnation from some leaders in the local Jewish community. Local officials in Rennes, France, have asked organizers to remove him from a festival next month.
The Fine Print
BMG executives knew that signing Freeze Corleone could result in blowback, according to internal documents, but they were attracted to his market potential. "This signing will strengthen BMG France's position on the strategic market of urban music and hopefully bring our first platinum local record, a key milestone to sign bigger urban acts later," read an internal investment request memo.
The memo, sent in September 2021 by two executives in the company's French office, weighed the risks of hate speech against the financial upside of working with him.
Pro: "Freeze Corleone is France's fastest growing artist in the last 2 years," the executives, Sylvain Gazaignes and Ronan Fiacre, wrote in the memo. "Riyad Sadio," his album with Ashe 22, another French rapper, was ready to go and "would really help us meet our revenue target," another document read, and it projected revenue of 1.2 million euros from the project and profit of 155,000 euros.
Con: "Freeze Corleone faced controversy when releasing his first album in 2020," the BMG memo noted, with understatement. An investigation, the memo added, had been opened by French authorities "on the grounds of incitement to racial hatred," but had concluded "there was no ground for prosecution."
In fact, that investigation was closed with no charges brought because the statute of limitations had passed, a spokesman for the Paris prosecutor's office told The Times.
According to BMG documents, no money would be paid until executives had listened to and approved the lyrics. There would be none of the usual publicity at the time of signing the deal and "the release will be white-labelled" -- meaning that no BMG logo would appear on the music or marketing materials.
The contract was executed a few weeks later, with BMG stipulating that the new album had been listened to and approved. Under the terms of the contract, that should have guaranteed Freeze Corleone at least his initial payment of 500,000 euros. BMG declined to comment about whether it had paid him the money.
When the two BMG employees in France approached her about the deal, Ms. Casimir, who by then had been given oversight of most of the European market, said she told them that it can be difficult to draw the proper line between artistic freedom and language that crosses lines of propriety.
"You have to check the back story," she said she told them. "You have to understand you work for a German company. You have to understand the history, because 'JBG' is a history. I mean, I lived in that moment."
The French employees assured her that the lyrics would be "clean," she said, and that they would vet them before paying Freeze Corleone. Neither Mr. Gazaignes nor Mr. Fiacre responded to text messages seeking comment.
BMG executives cleared the lyrics of Freeze Corleone's album, "Riyad Sadio," and prepared to release its first single, "Scellé Part. 4," in late October.
At the last minute, the label abruptly pulled back. Ms. Casimir said that days before the song's scheduled release, she decided to have her team in Germany review Freeze Corleone's past lyrics.
"I must say, that was a very fast decision, the moment we translated some of those lyrics," Ms. Casimir said. "We called the French team, said, 'You have to end this relationship."'
She said she had alerted Hartwig Masuch, the BMG chief executive, about the termination, and that "he agreed with the next steps." BMG did not make Mr. Masuch available for comment.
After BMG canceled the deal, Freeze Corleone released the album independently. It has had modest success, drawing more than 40 million streams on Spotify.
Ms. Casimir said that two of her employees in France no longer work for BMG as a result of the episode. "It has consequences," she said. BMG executives declined to name which employees left the company; Mr. Gazaignes remains a top executive in the French division.
In 2022, Ms. Casimir was promoted to chief content officer, and was given a seat on BMG's board.
Photograph (C4) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4.

Subject: Antisemitism; Jewish people; Rap music; Lyrics; Propaganda; Holocaust; Hate speech; Hip hop culture

Location: France; Germany

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/03/arts/music/freeze-corleone-bmg-antisemitism.html

Title: A Secret Deal Imploded Over Antisemitic Lyrics:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 4, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772216758

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/secret-deal-imploded-over-antisemitic-lyrics/docview/2772216758/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How BMG Secretly Signed a Rapper Dropped for Antisemitic Lyrics

Author: Rosman, Katherine; Sisario, Ben; Constant Méheut

Publication info: Rosman, Katherine; Sisario, Ben; Constant Méheut. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-bmg-secretly-signed-rapper-dropped/docview/2772086592/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In 2021, the global music company BMG was looking for a hit in France’s growing hip-hop market when its executives came up with a strategy: They would sign Freeze Corleone, a rising rapper on the Parisian scene with an aura of mystique, a hit album and more than 1 million monthly listeners on Spotify.
There was one problem. Freeze Corleone had been widely condemned in Europe for antisemitic lyrics. “I arrive determined like Adolf in the 1930s,” he rapped in French in one 2018 song and, in another, “Everything for the family, so that my children live like Jewish rentiers,” a word often associated with landlords. Other tracks have included conspiracy theories about 9/11 and a shoutout to “the Aryans.”
Just a year before BMG’s deal with him, Freeze Corleone had been dropped by his previous label, the French arm of the giant Universal Music, which said that his music “amplified unacceptable racist statements.”
“In order to mitigate the risk of possible controversy,” BMG executives wrote in a memo, they had a workaround. The contract with Freeze Corleone stipulated that the label had the right to approve his lyrics and that it would keep BMG’s involvement with his career hidden, according to documents and internal emails reviewed by The New York Times.
“No BMG logo anywhere on the release,” Dominique Casimir, one of the company’s most senior executives, emailed to a company lawyer and other executives.
She also demanded there would be no announcement heralding the deal. “No signing picture,” Casimir wrote. “Sorry to be this strict.”
A few weeks later, in October 2021, BMG signed a one-album deal with Freeze Corleone worth more than 1 million euros, or about $1.1 million.
In the end, BMG didn’t put out the album. In a recent interview, Casimir said that she had decided to cancel the deal the day before the release of its first single.
But the story of BMG and Freeze Corleone raises questions about why BMG executives had signed him in the first place while going to great lengths to conceal the relationship. And it offers an object lesson in the temptations and risks corporations face when they seek to capitalize on the notoriety of pop culture figures. That tension played out on a bigger stage last year when, amid a rising tide of antisemitism, Adidas ended its lucrative partnership with Kanye West after he made antisemitic comments.
In the interview, Casimir spoke about the challenges of monitoring a large pipeline of content at a multinational company; said that the decision to omit BMG’s name from the album had been made mutually with the artist; and described BMG’s ultimate decision to scrap its deal with Freeze Corleone as a sign that its content moderation policies had worked.
“People make mistakes,” she said. “We caught the mistake. And whatever the outcome of that mistake is, we have to deal with that.”
A Fraught History
This was not the first time that BMG, and Casimir, had to scramble to minimize damage over antisemitic lyrics.
In 2018, the company was at the center of a media firestorm over an album it had released the year before, “Jung Brutal Gutaussehend 3” (“Young Brutal Good-Looking 3”), by a pair of German rappers, Kollegah and Farid Bang. Despite lyrics like “My body is more defined than Auschwitz prisoners” and “Make another Holocaust, show up with a Molotov,” the LP had become a monster hit.
When that record (which BMG executives now refer to as “JBG”) won best hip-hop/urban album at the Echo awards, Germany’s equivalent of the Grammys, other artists revolted. Some, like classical conductor Daniel Barenboim and Klaus Voormann, the musician and artist who worked with the Beatles, returned their prizes in protest. The media and politicians in Germany — where there are strict laws against hate speech and Nazi propaganda — zeroed in on the uproar. The Echo awards were discontinued permanently.
The rebuke was felt particularly strongly at BMG, which is part of the German media conglomerate Bertelsmann. In 2002, Bertelsmann had apologized for its past ties to the Nazi regime.
In response to the uproar, BMG said it would give 100,000 euros to a campaign against antisemitism. It sponsored a series of songwriting workshops centered on opposing hate speech through music.
Casimir, who had overseen the deal for “JBG” as the managing director of BMG’s German market, became a public face of the company’s campaign. “Given Germany’s history, it is everyone’s responsibility to take a stand against antisemitism and hate,” she said in a news release.
The company enlisted the help of Ben Lesser, a Holocaust survivor who speaks to groups around the world through his Zachor Holocaust Remembrance Foundation. Soon after the awards, Lesser spent about three hours at a theater in Berlin, sharing his wrenching personal story with BMG employees and local schoolchildren, he and his daughter Gail Lesser-Gerber said in an interview.
BMG asked Lesser, now 94, to take part in a songwriting workshop in Los Angeles in early 2019. At the five-day event, he consulted with musicians as they wrote and recorded tracks with uplifting messages, including “Letter to the World,” sung by Emily Vaughn.
The label let Lesser know that to support his efforts to eradicate antisemitism, it would give the foundation the revenue generated by the songs.
“Altogether, it’s been less than $100,” Lesser-Gerber said. But she said that money was not the incentive. “The motivation was to get the message out.”
Lyrics About Hitler and Jews
Freeze Corleone rarely speaks to the news media. His real name is Issa Lorenzo Diakhaté, and he was born in a suburb of Paris in 1992. His father is Senegalese and his mother Italian. The rapper did not respond to numerous messages sent by email and social media requesting comment for this article. A business associate who helped him arrange his deal with BMG declined to comment.
Yet he speaks through his music. Rapping in a low voice, over minor-key piano figures, he performs a variation of drill, a hip-hop style often filled with dark tones and violent imagery.
Many of his lyrics feature standard hip-hop tropes, like allusions to sports and pop culture. On one track, he rhymes the name of Larry Bird, the Boston Celtics legend, with that of Marty Byrde, the money launderer played by Jason Bateman on Netflix’s “Ozark.” But a thread of antisemitism runs throughout his work, manifested in Nazi references, dismissals of the Holocaust, and slurs and stereotypes about Jews.
He has boasted of having “the propaganda techniques of Goebbels” and “big ambitions” like “the young Adolf.” In one song, “Le Chen,” from 2016, he rapped, “I’ve got to get the khaliss moving in my community like a Jew.” In Wolof, a language spoken in Senegal, where he spent time growing up, khaliss means money.
Olivier Lamm, a music critic for the French newspaper Libération, said that “the thematic substance of Freeze Corleone’s rap is obsessively antisemitic.” He cited an example from one of the rapper’s early tracks in which he used a profanity in dismissing the Shoah — a term for the Holocaust — and pointed to lines on his latest album, “Riyad Sadio,” that seem to refer to Israel and Jews, with key words bleeped out.
In 2020, Universal Music France released “La Menace Fantôme” (“The Phantom Menace”), which went double platinum in France, selling the equivalent of 200,000 copies there. Lyrics highlighted “Aryans,” though they did not explicitly address Jews.
But the album’s popularity drew attention to Freeze Corleone’s earlier lyrics about Hitler and Jewish landlords, and in the resulting controversy, he was dropped by Universal.
“Finally free,” the rapper tweeted.
Freeze Corleone’s name on a marquee continues to draw protests. A concert planned for late last year in Montreal was canceled after it drew condemnation from some leaders in the local Jewish community. Local officials in Rennes, France, have asked organizers to remove him from a festival next month.
The Fine Print
BMG executives knew that signing Freeze Corleone could result in blowback, according to internal documents, but they were attracted to his market potential. “This signing will strengthen BMG France’s position on the strategic market of urban music and hopefully bring our first platinum local record, a key milestone to sign bigger urban acts later,” read an internal investment request memo.
The memo, sent in September 2021 by two executives in the company’s French office, weighed the risks of hate speech against the financial upside of working with him.
Pro: “Freeze Corleone is France’s fastest growing artist in the last 2 years,” the executives, Sylvain Gazaignes and Ronan Fiacre, wrote in the memo. “Riyad Sadio,” his album with Ashe 22, another French rapper, was ready to go and “would really help us meet our revenue target,” another document read, and it projected revenue of 1.2 million euros from the project and profit of 155,000 euros.
Con: “Freeze Corleone faced controversy when releasing his first album in 2020,” the BMG memo noted, with understatement. An investigation, the memo added, had been opened by French authorities “on the grounds of incitement to racial hatred” but had concluded “there was no ground for prosecution.”
In fact, that investigation was closed with no charges brought because the statute of limitations had passed, a spokesperson for the Paris prosecutor’s office told the Times.
According to BMG documents, no money would be paid until executives had listened to and approved the lyrics. There would be none of the usual publicity at the time of signing the deal, and “the release will be white-labelled” — meaning that no BMG logo would appear on the music or marketing materials.
The contract was executed a few weeks later, with BMG stipulating that the new album had been listened to and approved. Under the terms of the contract, that should have guaranteed Freeze Corleone at least his initial payment of 500,000 euros. BMG declined to comment about whether it had paid him the money.
When the two BMG employees in France approached her about the deal, Casimir, who by then had been given oversight of most of the European market, said she told them that it can be difficult to draw the proper line between artistic freedom and language that crosses lines of propriety.
“You have to check the back story,” she said she told them. “You have to understand you work for a German company. You have to understand the history, because ‘JBG’ is a history. I mean, I lived in that moment.”
The French employees assured her that the lyrics would be “clean,” she said, and that they would vet them before paying Freeze Corleone. Neither Gazaignes nor Fiacre responded to text messages seeking comment.
BMG executives cleared the lyrics of Freeze Corleone’s album, “Riyad Sadio,” and prepared to release its first single, “Scellé Part. 4,” in late October.
At the last minute, the label abruptly pulled back. Casimir said that days before the song’s scheduled release, she decided to have her team in Germany review Freeze Corleone’s past lyrics.
“I must say, that was a very fast decision the moment we translated some of those lyrics,” Casimir said. “We called the French team, said, ‘You have to end this relationship.’”
She said she had alerted Hartwig Masuch, the BMG CEO, about the termination and that “he agreed with the next steps.” BMG did not make Masuch available for comment.
After BMG canceled the deal, Freeze Corleone released the album independently. It has had modest success, drawing more than 40 million streams on Spotify.
Casimir said that two of her employees in France no longer work for BMG as a result of the episode. “It has consequences,” she said. BMG executives declined to name which employees left the company; Gazaignes remains a top executive in the French division.
In 2022, Casimir was promoted to chief content officer and was given a seat on BMG’s board. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Rap music; Lyrics; Holocaust; Antisemitism; Jewish people; Propaganda; Hate speech; Hip hop culture; Popular culture

Location: New York; United States--US; Germany; France

Identifier / keyword: Entertainment; Arts; Senegal; Barenboim, Daniel; Sisario, Ben; Montreal (Quebec); Los Angeles (Calif); Bateman, Jason; Boston Celtics; Netflix Inc; Adidas Ag; New York Times; Auschwitz Concentration Camp; Israel; Rennes (France); Liberation (Newspaper); Kollegah (Rapper); Farid Bang (Rapper); Berlin (Germany); Europe; West, Kanye; Spotify; Bertelsmann Ag; Hitler, Adolf; Universal Music Group; Germany; Beatles, The; Paris (France); France; Bird, Larry; Bmg Entertainment; Coronavirus Risks And Safety Concerns; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Speeches And Statements; Classical Music; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; September 11 (2001); Politics And Government; Corporate Social Responsibility; World War Ii (1939 45); Hate Speech; Audio Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Labor And Jobs; Executive Compensation; News And News Media; Appointments And Executive Changes; Jews And Judaism; Holocaust And The Nazi Era; Music; Anti Semitism; Discrimination; International Relations; Rap And Hip Hop

Title: How BMG Secretly Signed a Rapper Dropped for Antisemitic Lyrics

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-03 @ 19:07

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772086592

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-bmg-secretly-signed-rapper-dropped/docview/2772086592/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sneakers and Songs Are Among His Specialties: [Style Desk]

Author: Hawgood, Alex

Publication info: Hawgood, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sneakers-songs-are-among-his-specialties/docview/2771510367/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Footwear News Achievement Awards, sometimes called the Oscars of shoes, shines a spotlight on the industry's top designers. But when the singer Dua Lipa won for a Puma collection last November, her frequent collaborator Billy Walsh bolted at the sight of flashing cameras.
"Billy Walsh's five-seconds limit on the red carpet," Ms. Lipa said, as photographers shouted her name at Cipriani Wall Street.
"More like two seconds," Mr. Walsh, 40, added safely from the sidelines.
Avoiding attention is a peculiar trait for a man who collaborates with some of the biggest names in pop, including Ms. Lipa, Post Malone and the Weeknd, straddling the upper echelons of fashion and music.
He has collaborated with Rihanna on a Fenty collection with Puma, and consulted Kanye West on video directors. As a fashion stylist, he dressed the Weeknd in Givenchy for the Met gala and James Blake in Yohji Yamamoto for awards shows.
But his biggest achievements are in songwriting. His co-writing credits include "Sunflower" by Post Malone and Swae Lee, and six tracks on Mr. West's "Donda" album -- and those are just counting his Grammy nominations.
"Billy is part of a small group of people in this industry that I consider to be like family," Mr. Malone said by email. Their shared writing catalog also includes the hits "I Fall Apart," "Better Now," "Wow" and "Circles." "Not only is he one of the best songwriters, but he is a brilliant creative and fashion designer."
On a recent Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Walsh went shopping at Dover Street Market, the retail temple in Manhattan where he often goes for inspiration. "I would come here to do massive pulls for the Weeknd," he said. "I used to start on the top floor and work my way down."
He still does. As he flipped through racks of Raf Simons and Junya Watanabe on the seventh floor, Mr. Walsh recounted this unorthodox rise in the recording and street wear industries. "Fashion and music are definitely interrelated, but I guess I don't know too many people who have succeeded in both," he said. "I stay in the back and don't need credit."
Dressed in an all-black "uniform" (T-shirt, Prada nylon shorts, Alyx socks and Nike Air Tuned Max sneakers), with his signature shaved head and platinum veneers, he has the tough-guy appearance of a post-apocalyptic British rude boy.
Mr. Walsh credits his dexterity to his rough-and-tumble upbringing in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston. His father, William Walsh, a folk musician who performed at local Irish pubs, encouraged him to write poetry and dance. He was also an obsessive sneaker head. "I drove my mom crazy looking all over the city for the Adidas Equipment Basketball shoes with the interchangeable, different-colored socks," he said.
Other addictions followed. He started drinking at 11, often getting into after-school brawls until he sobered up a decade later.
At 18, he headed to Los Angeles to study dance at Loyola Marymount University, and signed with an agent. But dance gigs were few and far between, so he spent most of his 20s as a nightclub promoter, working alongside his brother at Hollywood hot spots like Emerson Theater and Hyde, where he would party with a young Post Malone and future designers like Matthew M. Williams of Givenchy.
In 2011, the choreographer Fatima Robinson, who he met at Eden, a Hollywood nightclub, encouraged him to stop dancing and focus on poetry and design instead. "This woman literally saved my life," he said.
He quit auditioning and busied himself with writing poetry and daydreaming about street wear. He looked inside his sneaker closet and began experimenting with Frankenstein combinations. One of the first designs cobbled together was a white Nike Air Force One with a black rubber creeper sole. "I always wondered what a creeper would look like with certain old sneakers from my childhood," he said.
He wore his custom sneakers to the clubs, which would get noticed by emerging V.I.P.s like Virgil Abloh and Travis Scott. In 2014, with seed money from fellow party promoters, he and a friend started a street wear label called Mr. Completely, which reimagined classic sneakers including Adidas Sambas and Stan Smiths.
To promote the brand, he held a party at Fourtwofour on Fairfax and invited everyone he knew. Among them was the stylist Jahleel Weaver, who ordered several pairs for his client Rihanna. That turned out to be a propitious sale. A few months later, Rihanna invited Mr. Walsh to design her debut collection with Puma (which went on to win the Footwear News "Shoe of the Year" two years later).
Sneakers opened other doors. One of them led to Illangelo, a veteran Canadian producer, who became a confidant and his unexpected entree into music writing. Once again, it started at a nightclub. The two were clubbing on the Sunset Strip in 2014 when Illangelo mentioned that he was disappointed by the state of songwriting. Seizing the moment, Mr. Walsh shared a short poem from his iPhone Notes app.
Illangelo was so impressed that he brought Mr. Walsh into studio sessions with Alicia Keys and he ended up getting his first mainstream writing credit on the song, "In Common." Illangelo also introduced Mr. Walsh to the Weeknd, who at first was only interested in working with him as a stylist. (The two shared an appreciation for military bomber jackets.) But as Mr. Walsh's reputation as a songwriter began to rise, the Weeknd began bringing him into the studio.
Those sessions resulted in three tracks from the 2016 album‌‌ "Starboy," including "True Colors" and "Die ‌for You," which peaked at No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 this month, seven years after it was first released, thanks to going viral on TikTok.
Mr. Walsh has since gone on to write more than 100 songs for artists as varied as the Kid Laroi ("Without You"), pop powerhouses like Mr. Malone and Ms. Lipa, and rock royalty like Ozzy Osbourne ("Ordinary Man"). His publishing catalog has racked up a combined 20 billion streams. Last November, "Sunflower" went 17 times platinum, becoming the highest-certified single of all time.
His soaring music career hasn't stopped him from other creative pursuits. In 2016, he started Donavan's Yard, a nightlife collective in Los Angeles with the D.J.s Drew Byrd and Sean G that hosts parties in Tokyo and a streaming concert series on Amazon Music Live. Branded merch is sold at Dover Street Market,
In October, he started a conceptual street wear label called Iswas with Keith Richardson, his creative partner at Mr. Completely. The label currently sells one item: a pair of painter's pants made from Japanese selvage denim that costs $ 450.
Wearing many hats, Mr. Walsh said, affords him creative freedom. "If Abel knows I am winning an award with Dua and doing my own clothing line, he respects that I'm doing OK for myself," he said, referring to the Weeknd by his given name. "No one feels like you're too dependent."
Back at Dover Street, Mr. Walsh went from floor to floor, examining the clothing racks like an archaeologist at a fresh dig. On the shoe floor, he picked up a pair of cloven-toed "tabi" boots by Martin Margiela. "I appreciate what this guy does," he said of the designer, who, like himself, shuns the limelight in favor of letting his work speak for itself.
After about two hours, he reached the Rose Bakery on the ground floor, took a seat and ordered an Earl Grey tea. As ambient music played overhead, he reflected on his unusual journey. "My success comes from artists recognizing that I see the creative process as sacred, somewhat secret," he said. "I am never the main focus, just as it should be."
Photograph Above, Billy Walsh at his home in Los Angeles in October. Above right, Dua Lipa and Mr. Walsh at the 36th annual Footwear News Achievement Awards in New York in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACK BOOL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; EVAN AGOSTINI/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Nightclubs; Athletic shoes; Writing; Fashion designers; Musical performances; Design

Location: United States--US; Los Angeles California

People: Lipa, Dua; Weeknd (Abel Tesfaye); Post, Austin Richard (Post Malone)

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340; Name: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; NAICS: 312130, 315210, 316990, 325620, 339910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/27/style/billy-walsh-sneakers-songwriting-rihanna-post-malone.html

Title: Sneakers and Songs Are Among His Specialties:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 2, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771510367

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sneakers-songs-are-among-his-specialties/docview/2771510367/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Designs Sneakers With Dua Lipa and Writes Songs With The Weeknd

Author: Hawgood, Alex

Publication info: Hawgood, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-designs-sneakers-with-dua-lipa-writes-songs/docview/2770555050/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — The Footwear News Achievement Awards, sometimes called the Oscars of shoes, shines a spotlight on the industry’s top designers. But when singer Dua Lipa won for a Puma collection in November, her frequent collaborator Billy Walsh bolted at the sight of flashing cameras.
“Billy Walsh’s 5-seconds limit on the red carpet,” Lipa said, as photographers shouted her name at Cipriani Wall Street.
“More like 2 seconds,” Walsh, 40, added safely from the sidelines.
Avoiding attention is a peculiar trait for a man who collaborates with some of the biggest names in pop, including Lipa, Post Malone and The Weeknd, straddling the upper echelons of fashion and music.
He has collaborated with Rihanna on a Fenty collection with Puma, and consulted Kanye West on video directors. As a fashion stylist, he dressed The Weeknd in Givenchy for the Met gala and James Blake in Yohji Yamamoto for awards shows.
But his biggest achievements are in songwriting. His co-writing credits include “Sunflower” by Malone and Swae Lee, and six tracks on West’s “Donda” album — and those are just counting his Grammy nominations.
“Billy is part of a small group of people in this industry that I consider to be like family,” Malone said by email. Their shared writing catalog also includes the hits “I Fall Apart,” “Better Now,” “Wow” and “Circles.” “Not only is he one of the best songwriters, but he is a brilliant creative and fashion designer.”
On a recent Tuesday afternoon, Walsh went shopping at Dover Street Market, a retail temple in Manhattan where he often goes for inspiration. “I would come here to do massive pulls for The Weeknd,” he said. “I used to start on the top floor and work my way down.”
He still does. As he flipped through racks of Raf Simons and Junya Watanabe on the seventh floor, Walsh recounted this unorthodox rise in the recording and streetwear industries. “Fashion and music are definitely interrelated, but I guess I don’t know too many people who have succeeded in both,” he said. “I stay in the back and don’t need credit.”
Dressed in an all-black “uniform” (T-shirt, Prada nylon shorts, Alyx socks and Nike Air Tuned Max sneakers), with his signature shaved head and chrome-metal grills, he has the tough-guy appearance of a post-apocalyptic British rude boy.
Walsh credits his dexterity to his rough-and-tumble upbringing in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston. His father, William, a folk musician who performed at local Irish pubs, encouraged him to write poetry and dance. Walsh was also an obsessive sneaker head. “I drove my mom crazy looking all over the city for the Adidas Equipment Basketball shoes with the interchangeable, different-colored socks,” he said.
Other addictions followed. He started drinking at 11, often getting into after-school brawls until he sobered up a decade later.
At 18, he headed to Los Angeles to study dance at Loyola Marymount University, and he signed with an agent. But dance gigs were few and far between, so he spent most of his 20s as a nightclub promoter, working alongside his brother at Hollywood hot spots such as Emerson Theater and Hyde, where he would party with a young Malone and future designers such as Matthew M. Williams of Givenchy.
In 2011, choreographer Fatima Robinson, whom he met at Eden, a Hollywood nightclub, encouraged him to stop dancing and focus on poetry and design instead. “This woman literally saved my life,” he said.
He quit auditioning and busied himself with writing poetry and daydreaming about streetwear. He looked inside his sneaker closet and began experimenting with Frankenstein combinations. One of the first designs cobbled together was a white Nike Air Force One with a black-rubber creeper sole. “I always wondered what a creeper would look like with certain old sneakers from my childhood,” he said.
He wore his custom sneakers to the clubs, which would get noticed by emerging VIPs such as Virgil Abloh and Travis Scott. In 2014, with seed money from fellow party promoters, he and a friend started a streetwear label called Mr. Completely, which re-imagined classic sneakers including Adidas Sambas and Stan Smiths.
To promote the brand, he held a party at Fourtwofour on Fairfax and invited everyone he knew. Among them was stylist Jahleel Weaver, who ordered several pairs for his client Rihanna. That turned out to be a propitious sale. A few months later, Rihanna invited Walsh to design her debut collection with Puma, which two years later won the Footwear News “Shoe of the Year.”
Sneakers opened other doors. One of them led to Illangelo, a veteran Canadian producer, who became a confidant and his unexpected entree into music writing. Once again, it started at a nightclub. The two were clubbing on the Sunset Strip in 2014 when Illangelo mentioned that he needed a new songwriter. Seizing the moment, Walsh shared a short poem from his iPhone Notes app.
Illangelo was so impressed that he brought Walsh into studio sessions with Alicia Keys, and he ended up getting his first mainstream writing credit on the song “In Common.” Illangelo also introduced Walsh to The Weeknd, who at first was only interested in working with him as a stylist. (The two shared an appreciation for military bomber jackets.) But as Walsh’s reputation as a songwriter began to rise, The Weeknd began bringing him into the studio.
Those sessions resulted in three tracks from the 2016 album “Starboy,” including “True Colors” and “Die for You,” which peaked at No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 this month, seven years after it was first released, thanks to going viral on TikTok.
Walsh has since gone on to write more than 100 songs for artists as varied as The Kid Laroi (“Without You”), pop powerhouses such as Malone and Lipa, and rock royalty such as Ozzy Osbourne (“Ordinary Man”). His publishing catalog has racked up a combined 20 billion streams. In November, “Sunflower” went 17 times platinum, becoming the highest-certified single of all time.
His soaring music career hasn’t stopped him from other creative pursuits. In 2016, he started Donavan’s Yard, a nightlife collective in Los Angeles with DJs Drew Byrd and Sean G that hosts parties in Tokyo and a streaming concert series on Amazon Music Live. Branded merch is sold at Dover Street Market.
In October, he started a conceptual streetwear label called Iswas with Keith Richardson, his creative partner at Mr. Completely. The label sells one item: a pair of painter’s pants made from Japanese selvage denim that costs $450.
Wearing many hats, Walsh said, affords him creative freedom. “If Abel knows I am winning an award with Dua and doing my own clothing line, he respects that I’m doing OK for myself,” he said, referring to The Weeknd by his given name. “No one feels like you’re too dependent.”
Back at Dover Street Market, Walsh went from floor to floor, examining the clothing racks like an archaeologist at a fresh dig. On the shoe floor, he picked up a pair of cloven-toed “tabi” boots by Martin Margiela. “I appreciate what this guy does,” he said of the designer, who, like himself, shuns the limelight in favor of letting his work speak for itself.
After about two hours, he reached the Rose Bakery, on the ground floor, took a seat and ordered an Earl Grey tea. As ambient music played overhead, he reflected on his unusual journey. “My success comes from artists recognizing that I see the creative process as sacred, somewhat secret,” he said. “I am never the main focus, just as it should be.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Nightclubs; Songwriters; Writing; Athletic shoes; Fashion designers; Musical performances; Design

Location: New York; United States--US; Los Angeles California

People: Lipa, Dua; Weeknd (Abel Tesfaye); Post, Austin Richard (Post Malone)

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340; Name: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; NAICS: 312130, 315210, 316990, 325620, 339910

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Carolina Herrera Ltd; Canada; Japan; Simons, Raf; Yamamoto, Yohji; Rose Bakery (Manhattan, Ny, Bakery); Cipriani Wall Street; Loyola Marymount University; Tokyo (Japan); Billboard (Magazine); Weaver, Jahleel; Dover Street Market New York (Manhattan, Ny, Retailer); Hollywood (Calif); Los Angeles (Calif); Nike Inc; Givenchy; Adidas Ag; Alyx (Fashion Label); AmazonCom Inc; Tiktok (Bytedance); Swae Lee (Rapper); Abloh, Virgil; Osbourne, Ozzy; Watanabe, Junya; Post, Austin (Post Malone) (1995 ); Blake, James (1988 ); Temple University; Howard, Charlton (The Kid Laroi); Keys, Alicia; Prada Spa; Lipa, Dua; Rihanna; Starboy (Album); In Common (Song); Puma Ag; Williams, Matthew (1985 ); Donda (Album); Walsh, Billy (Songwriter); Culture (Arts); Children And Childhood; Rhythm And Blues (Music); Web Original Programming; Academy Awards (Oscars); Parties (Social); Real Estate (Commercial); Met Gala; Advertising And Marketing; Mobile Applications; Privacy; Poetry And Poets; Grammy Awards; Design; Theater; Social Media; Dancing; Music; Bars And Nightclubs; Television; Shoes And Boots; Rap And Hip Hop; Sneakers; Fashion And Apparel

Title: He Designs Sneakers With Dua Lipa and Writes Songs With The Weeknd

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-29 @ 23:06

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770555050

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-designs-sneakers-with-dua-lipa-writes-songs/docview/2770555050/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Of City Streets, Sidewalks and a Changing Sport: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Cole Louison

Publication info: Cole Louison. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/city-streets-sidewalks-changing-sport/docview/2770379250/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There have never been as many official places to skate in New York City as there are today. But there's just something about an empty plaza and a distracted security guard.
On a recent Sunday afternoon in Midtown, Steve Rodriguez stood in the street, his hand raised in the winter sunlight, watching for traffic and security guards. His skateboard was tilted over on the sidewalk to make a small barrier -- a visual cue for walkers to be cautious. He scanned the street, the sidewalk and a plaza up ahead, where a young man was waiting with a skateboard in an empty fountain.
Mr. Rodriguez dropped his arm. "Go!"
Shiki Rodriguez, 12, jerked into motion. He sprinted forward, jumped onto his board and raced across the fountain, then hit the upturned lip, launching himself into the air. He flew over the ground with his eyes on a bench, his anticipated landing spot. But he landed off balance, and the board shot out as he fell backward.
Steve Rodriguez, the lookout and Shiki's 51-year-old dad, jogged over, intercepting his son's board. "That was a hard slam," he said. "You OK?"
"Yeah," said Shiki, taking back his board.
A well-dressed woman and her dog stepped around Mr. Rodriguez's sideways board, giving both skaters a wary look.
Mr. Rodriguez knew that they didn't have much time before security inevitably arrived to eject them, and he urged his son to get back in the fountain and try again.
"This is a kick-out spot," he said, retaking his place as lookout. "I've never skated here more than 10 minutes."
Mr. Rodriguez has navigated countless situations like this since the 1980s, when street skateboarding -- an aggressive mutation of its Southern California counterpart -- emerged in New York.
Skaters of the day's session spanned two generations, all rolling happily through the plaza: Mr. Rodriguez, Shiki, and two of Shiki's old skate pals, Ari Misurelli, 11, and Jiro Platt, 16. Their dads were Joe Misurelli, 44, and Jeremy Platt, 48.
Ari's dad was raised in Wisconsin, where there were no skate parks. "There was only street skating," Mr. Misurelli said. "I grew up dealing with cops almost every day."
The dads have never let their sons forget how good they have it. New York now maintains no less than 40 Parks Department-sanctioned skate parks, miles and miles of poured concrete and obstacles designed specifically for skateboarding.
The sons know this history, some of which is the stuff of skate legend, like the Brooklyn Banks, which Mayor Eric Adams announced this week could be refurbished as part of a proposed $ 160 million development. ("I've heard of it," Ari, who was born in 2012, said of the Brooklyn Banks.)
Sometime around the early 1980s, downtown skaters discovered Red Brick Park, as the Brooklyn Banks was officially known.
The spot was a basin of undulating brick under the Brooklyn Bridge, with Jersey barriers that were perfect for wall-riding. The scene was industrial and deserted. Inside the bridge anchorages were a chop shop, a crack market and a homeless encampment. Mr. Rodriguez grew up skating there and is now part of the team helping rebuild the Banks.
That skateboarding has changed a lot since then, Mr. Rodriguez said, "is a total understatement."
In his three decades skating the New York streets -- as a respected athlete, consultant, business owner, advertising executive, skate park designer and activist -- Mr. Rodriguez has probably seen as many social, cultural and financial shifts as anyone.
He was there when a tiny downtown skate shop named Supreme opened in 1994; the brand was recently sold for $ 2.1 billion.
Skaters are now Olympic athletes, sponsored by billion-dollar corporations like Nike and Red Bull. New York's most famous pro, Tyshawn Jones -- recently seen on the cover of Thrasher magazine doing a kick-flip over subway tracks, something previously possible only in video games -- is represented by DNA Model Management and is a spokesman for Tiffany & Company.
Mr. Rodriguez also recalls when the Brooklyn Banks were suddenly closed in 2004, and again in 2010, which was around the time he won a grant from Nike and used the money to design and build a park nearby with help from the Tony Hawk Foundation. That park, now known to skaters as LES, is New York's most famous, and a popular meeting site for the dads on Sunday mornings, though on this day they were sticking to street spots.
LES is just one of the city's dozens of official skate parks, a reminder that skateboarding is here to stay -- but only, it seems, within certain boundaries.
"It's important to have a safe, well-designed space where there's the freedom to practice," Mr. Rodriguez said.
And yet, no one is drawn to skateboarding for its safe, well-designed spaces.
"Skate spots are a hundred times better," Shiki said. "You go to one spot and it's not like anything at a park." For him and his friends, improvising is key. "You can make it better. Like, if there's a broken chair, you can use that."
In fact, this is exactly what Shiki and his friends did the day before.
"That's an individual experience," Mr. Rodriguez said. "You utilize everything in that environment. You create something. And you will probably never have that experience again, so it's unique."
Something in the corner of the plaza caught Mr. Rodriguez's eye, and he turned to see Jiro soar over a construction cone, a perfect backside flip.
Jiro moved with the grace of a figure skater, and, like all great athletes, he seemed to occupy a higher space than those around him. Each flip and spin looked natural but had clearly been dissected, tweaked, tinkered, perfected. Every trick was a little faster, higher, harder and smoother; even the hum of his wheels was different.
Jiro left school mid-pandemic and probably won't return. He grew up on Canal Street, skating at LES, where he met Mr. Rodriguez, who saw Jiro's talent and introduced him to a representative from Volcom, a skate apparel company, which hooked him up with free gear and clothes (a low-level endorsement known among skaters as "flow"). Soon Nike came calling, then Red Bull, which gave Jiro a small salary and provided a consultant to advise him on social media and quarterly earning goals. He was 13.
Still, professional aspirations aside, like Shiki, Jiro prefers the street.
"Of course, I've got to skate park sometimes," he said. "That's essential to kind of hone your skills."
His dad, Jeremy, who grew up skating in Texas, where football was everything, is thrilled about Jiro's opportunities. But Mr. Platt also has conflicted feelings about his son skating kick-out spots, which often means brushes with security.
"Avoid confrontation and be respectful," he advised. "These guys are just doing their job."
The group moved to the other side of the plaza, directly across from the 23rd Police Precinct. Facing a row of mini-cruisers, Ari, who was in sixth grade and lives in Brooklyn, stood at the end of one long block of marble. In front of him was another block; between the two, a gap.
Ari wore look of stern focus and clothes flowed from Volcom and Adidas.
His dad hung back with Mr. Rodriguez. They talked about street skating and the hazards of being kicked out of public spaces. "I grew up dealing with cops almost every day," Mr. Misurelli said, adding that he raised his son to be respectful and to avoid confrontation.
"They're not legally allowed to touch us," Ari said.
"Kids nowadays know that," said his dad. "Back then, they could touch you."
Standing atop the long marble block, Ari jolted into motion, rolling to the end and popping a kick-flip over the gap. He landed on the next block but fell, sliding upright in a seated position, the way good skaters fall. He tried again. Then again. And again, sliding off the block and spilling onto the ground. He looked displeased but patient.
New skaters joined the group. Some had their phones out to shoot video.
Ari stepped up onto the marble.
"You got that, Ar!"
He threw down, popped, flipped, landed clean and rolled away -- off the block and past the fountain.
Skaters tapped the tails of their boards on the pavement, a universal sign of appreciation.
Jiro and Shiki gave their friend a moment to bask in the achievement, then went after him, convening in something of a hopping huddle, hitting one another on the head.
"That was the last try," Mr. Rodriguez observed.
Photograph Jiro Platt, 16, skating with friends in Midtown on a recent Sunday afternoon. He left school during the pandemic and probably won't return. (MB4); Above, Steve Rodriguez, center right, leading a group up Broadway in Manhattan. Above right, Ari Misurelli on the ground after a failed trick attempt during a skating session with friends. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) This article appeared in print on page MB4, MB5.

Subject: Skating; Parks & recreation areas; Skateboarding; Pandemics; Homeless encampments

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/26/nyregion/skateboarding-new-york-city.html

Title: Of City Streets, Sidewalks and a Changing Sport:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 29, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770379250

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/city-streets-sidewalks-changing-sport/docview/2770379250/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

High-End Athletic Wear Earns Its Stripes: [Style Desk]

Author: Testa, Jessica

Publication info: Testa, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-end-athletic-wear-earns-stripes/docview/2766605822/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Could a trademark lawsuit over stripes change how we think about athletic wear?
There is no limit to where a fashion brand will hold a fashion show, it seems: a church, a decommissioned warship, an abandoned subway station, a stock exchange, the Great Wall of China, the Giza pyramids. Extremity begets exposure, and very little is sacred.
Yet there was something different about the way a handful of spectators whispered, "It's like a fashion show," to one another in a Manhattan federal courtroom earlier this week.
This was unlike the other times runways have materialized in grand courthouse buildings. This was real: a real jury beneath real overhead lighting was going to examine pieces of luxury clothing, then use that examination to help make a decision that could alter a designer's future. Had Thom Browne, a 57-year-old American best known for his cheeky, preppy style of tailoring, infringed on the Adidas copyright of three stripes?
On the morning of Jan. 9, Mr. Browne took the witness stand, holding up some of his designs, describing them and their prices, as if "Shark Tank" had come to Savile Row. He wore his uniform of grays: a blazer over a cardigan over a white shirt and tie -- a swath of leg exposed, even on a 35-degree day, between his above-the-knee shorts and over-the-calf socks.
Two similarly outfitted employees helped wheel a rack of clothing into the jury's line of sight, on which 14 hangers displayed things like a zip-up hoodie, a pleated skirt, a ribbed scarf.
Mr. Browne was handed a pair of his gray waffle-knit sweatpants to assess. It had four horizontal white stripes wrapped around the left thigh.
"Around $ 1,000," he estimated. A juror jerked up her head.
Mr. Browne continued. "This jacket," he said, "would be $ 2,400."
The judge made a joke: "Of course, now you'll have to sell it as used." People laughed.
A few days later, in court, two pairs of women's drawstring sweatpants would be draped over the edge of the jury box for their consideration: a $ 50 pair by Adidas, size large, and a $ 790 pair by Thom Browne, size 2. They represented an argument made by Mr. Browne's lawyers: These brands are not competitors, and one does not take away business from the other.
But it was another argument, Thom Browne's legal team said on Thursday, that they believed ultimately resonated more with the jury: "Adidas does not own stripes," the lawyer Robert T. Maldonado said repeatedly during his closing argument.
The Adidas lawsuit, filed in 2021, concerned two Thom Browne signatures: a stack of four bars, usually found on one sleeve or one pant leg, and a red-white-and-blue grosgrain tab -- a locker loop inspired by the striped ribbons attached to sports medals. Adidas claimed that Mr. Browne's use of these stripes on his more casual and athletic designs was too similar to its three-stripe trademark, which it has used since the 1950s. (Think of the three diagonal stripes on the sides of Adidas Samba or Superstar shoes, or the three vertical stripes that run down the sides of its sweatpants and jerseys.)
The two companies had crossed paths before, in 2006. At the time, five years into building his brand, Mr. Browne was using three horizontal bars instead of four. When Adidas asked him to stop, he agreed, adding a fourth stripe to the set.
Adidas didn't approach Thom Browne again until 2018, around the time the Browne label began dressing FC Barcelona and the Cleveland Cavaliers in suits for the teams' pregame appearances. This was also around the time that Thom Browne, like many luxury brands, began expanding its active-wear category with more sweatpants, hoodies and other recreational clothes.
The jury ruled in favor of Mr. Browne's company, determining that it wasn't liable for trademark infringement or dilution.
Thom Browne employees in the gallery wiped tears from their eyes. In some ways, they saw themselves as David battling Goliath. (The company, which is part of the public Ermenegildo Zegna Group, brought in about $ 285 million in 2021 revenue -- essentially Adidas's annual advertising budget, as revealed at trial. Adidas's 2021 revenue was about $ 23 billion.)
"Fighting this was important," Mr. Browne said in an interview after the verdict was read, calling the decision a "protection for creativity" against big companies. "When you create something, someone can't just come and take it away from you."
In a statement, Adidas said it was "disappointed with the verdict and will continue to vigilantly enforce our intellectual property, including filing any appropriate appeals."
While claims like these often arise in fashion -- Adidas in particular has pursued hundreds of matters related to its three-stripe trademark -- they are often settled or dismissed before reaching a jury trial.
But here, the decision to keep fighting was as financial as it was emotional; the active-wear products in question constituted about 10 percent of Thom Browne's sales in the United States, according to information disclosed over the course of the trial. Over the last decade, athletic wear has been widely considered one of the fastest growing categories in fashion. McKinsey has estimated that the global sportswear market is expected to grow to nearly $ 428 billion in 2025.
Thom Browne is not a sports-oriented brand, but the designer takes inspiration from sports. His arm bars were inspired by midcentury varsity jackets, and past fashion shows have been themed around swimming, ice skating and tennis. (During the trial, the company said it doesn't invest in traditional advertising, and these elaborate fever-dream fashion shows, like the one last April with 500 teddy bears dressed in mini Thom Browne outfits and a rollicking Kelly Clarkson lip-syncing number, are effectively the brand's advertising.)
On the witness stand, Mr. Browne advised people not to actually wear a pair of his $ 630 running shoes while running. But Adidas singling out these pieces to sue over raised an interesting question about getting dressed in 2023. If people are wearing active wear in their everyday lives, to go to work or to dinner or to serve on a jury (nearly half of the jurors wore hoodies on the trial's final day), when does it stop being active wear?
At one point during the trial, the judge read aloud the Merriam-Webster entry for sportswear, which has both a fairly common-sense definition (clothing suitable for recreation) and a fashion-industry-recognized definition (clothing designed for casual or informal wear).
The fluidity of these definitions -- and of getting dressed, in general -- is the kind of theme one might expect to see explored in one of Mr. Browne's theatrical gender-challenging runway shows. He has been known to choreograph dozens of models, recreating stories like Cinderella and Noah's Ark, building his own surreal offices and schoolhouses.
But for his next show, scheduled for New York Fashion Week in February, he won't be touching courtroom drama, he said.
"I never want to go through this again. This is the last thing I will ever use as inspiration."
Photograph Top left, Thom Browne on his way to court in Manhattan on Jan. 3. Bottom left, Thom Browne designs that Adidas claimed were trademark infringements in the complaint filed in federal court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW KELLY/REUTERS); Thom Browne designs being wheeled into court for the trial, which resulted in a victory for the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YUKI IWAMURA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page D5.

Subject: Clothing; Design; Advertising; Fashion shows; Trademarks; Sport clothes; Fashion designers; Trials

Business indexing term: Subject: Advertising Trademarks

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/13/style/thom-browne-adidas-sweatpants.html

Title: High-End Athletic Wear Earns Its Stripes:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 19, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766605822

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-end-athletic-wear-earns-stripes/docview/2766605822/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

David Byrne, Maria Cornejo Celebrate the Latest Art ‘Drop’

Author: Berk, Brett

Publication info: Berk, Brett. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/david-byrne-maria-cornejo-celebrate-latest-art/docview/2766554177/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Last week, creative industry insiders filled the concrete and wood lobby of the Ace Hotel in Downtown Brooklyn to see the work of Lakea Shepard in the latest “drop” by GBA, a new art, commerce and lifestyle platform for underrepresented communities of artists.
The pieces, on display until January 30, are based on “slave masks”— devices of control and punishment used on enslaved people in the New World. Shepard assembles the masks with beads, gems, thread and ephemera, using traditional African basketmaking, embroidery and embellishment techniques to portray the challenges facing Black people in contemporary society. Shepard, 32, a sculptor, mixed media designer and milliner, grew up in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and earned her degree from the College for Creative Studies in Detroit.
“I wanted it to have that sparkle. But at the same time, the closer you look, the grungier it gets,” Shepard said of the 10 pieces on display. “I spent a lot of time trying to figure out how I can captivate an audience while also acknowledging social issues.”
GBA, also known as Guilty By Association, was founded in 2021 by Karen Wong, who worked for 15 years as an executive at the New Museum in Manhattan, and Derek Wiggins, who has developed mobile marketing platforms and created streetwear collaborations with Nike, Supreme and Adidas.
“I think for too long, both the academic world and the gallery system has provided a very narrow path to what people consider success,” Wong said. “Our hope is to look at how we can branch out and create more opportunities and possibilities.”
Wong and Wiggins hope to widen access by hosting events in more inviting spaces and to expand artistic representation by elevating the work of queer artists and artists of color from regional cities. The two will also provide artists with 75% of the retail fees for their work as opposed to the gallery standard of 50%.
“The goal is selling artwork by the artist, but ultimately it’s about getting the right people connected with the right people, showing the world what’s out there,” Wiggins said.
The crowd, which included artists, musicians and gallerists, was highly engaged with the work, which catalyzed conversations about attendees’ personal interests, collections and hopes for 2023.
Interviews have been edited.
— Margaret Zhang, 29
Editor-in-chief, Vogue China
Q: What are you into right now?
A: I’m excited about how much young people are excited about heritage craft. I think especially in China, where the craft is 2,000 years old or more, for young people to be excited about that and learning from the masters of these disciplines that have been passed down for generations in a very authentic and not surface-level way.
Q: What do you collect?
A: Tiny, strange ceramics from different parts of the world. It’s very visceral, a reaction to particular small ceramics, small vessels that are not very functional, but they remind me of something, or they’re just interesting and make you think.
—
Maria Cornejo, 60
Fashion designer
Q: What are you into right now?
A: I’m working on my 25-year anniversary collection, so I’m geeking out in my own archives. I’m discovering that I like myself from 25 years ago. I didn’t want to be in the fashion business. I was just rediscovering a way of creating things in my own way. And so it’s a very internal inspiration.
—
Stephen Markos, 39
Furniture gallerist
Q: What are you into right now?
A: I am obsessed with textiles. I’m working with a few different artists. One does these amazing chain stitch and needlework pieces in the most outrageous color palettes. Another makes these amazing, almost macramé hanging works, but again, in really amazing fabrics and yarns.
Q: What are you excited about in 2023?
A: I see a trend toward handmade objects, whether they’re big furniture pieces or small tabletop objects, but something that you can see the artist’s hand. There’s a story to tell in it that you can glean from the object, looking at fingerprints and even errors.
—
David Byrne, 70
Musician
Q: What are you into right now?
A: I’m reading a book called “When We Cease to Understand the World,” which is kind of a science history, but some of it is made up. And he [author Benjamín Labatut] doesn’t tell you when it’s made up. It mixes fact and fiction, which for some reviewers was a big problem. But the writing is really good, and you just kind of go with it, and then after reading, you go, “Wait a minute?”
—
Lutfi Janania, 33
Botanical sculptor
Q: What are you into right now?
A: I’m focusing my business on creating more objective sculpture work. I have done a lot of large-scale floral installations, but I want to take my practice into something that’s permanent, and not ephemeral, and that can carry on the fantasy that the works bring into the viewer’s home.
Q: What do you collect?
A: I collect things from nature. Botanicals, woods, all kinds of dried materials, preserved materials. I’ve been practicing how to get my plants and organic materials to transmute into realized versions of themselves. To make them permanent.
—
Kalifa (Khalif Diouf), 33
Musician/sound designer
Q: What do you collect?
A: Outlandish sneakers. And men’s heels. The best company for men’s heels is called Syro. They’re a New York-based company that makes the most eccentric shoes — you can get a black boot, or a pink suede, up to size 15.
Q: What are you excited about in 2023?
A: I’m excited about finishing an album for the first time in seven years. It’s about my identity as a Black gay person, and embracing a feminine identity as an African is something that I’ve been working on.
—
Asmeret Berhe-Lumax, 45
Nonprofit founder
Q: What do you collect?
A: Magazines and paper. As a first-generation immigrant, books were luxurious, a source of education and opportunity. My most recent acquisition is the next issue of our zine at One Love Community Fridge. It’s the youth issue, so all the contributions are from kids in our community. We deal with hunger and food insecurity, so it’s drawings and interviews and recipes and games, all made by the kids.
—
April Hunt, 41
DJ
Q: What are you into right now?
A: Moments like this hit for me when I get to participate in a gathering of my community. That’s a big deal. Joy is a big deal for me these days because we all need it. We all need a twirl, you know?
What do you collect?
A: Shoes. I’m wearing these Giuseppe Zanottis right now. It’s a statement shoe, but it’s also comfortable because he puts a platform in. I feel like a lot of designers don’t like to do platforms for women because they want that straight stiletto. But we need a little cushion. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fashion; Artists; Art; Furniture; Fashion designers; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Hotels & motels

Location: China; New York; United States--US

People: Byrne, David

Company / organization: Name: Ace Hotel; NAICS: 721110

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; North Carolina; Nike Inc; Adidas Ag; China; Enslaved (Music Group); Manhattan (Nyc); Pink (1979 ); Africa; System (Magazine); Winston Salem (Nc); Byrne, David; Ace Hotel; Downtown Brooklyn (Brooklyn, Ny); Diouf, Khalif (Le1f) (1989 ); Cornejo, Maria; Labatut, Benjamin; Wong, Karen (Arts Executive); Wiggins, Derek (Arts Executive); Gba (Guilty By Association) (Art Collective); Culture (Arts); Sculpture; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Slavery (Historical); Generation Z; Books And Literature; Textiles; Youth; Masks; Shoes And Boots; Art; Magazines

Title: David Byrne, Maria Cornejo Celebrate the Latest Art ‘Drop’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 18, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-18 @ 18:10

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interes t Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766554177

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/david-byrne-maria-cornejo-celebrate-latest-art/docview/2766554177/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Push for Sustainability: [Series]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/push-sustainability/docview/2761602955/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This article is part of a series examining Responsible Fashion , and innovative efforts to address issues facing the fashion industry.
Who gets to decide what is green or greenwashing? Is it a good thing that more celebrities and reality stars are embracing pre-loved clothing? How much should governments step in when it comes to sustainability? What protections do garment workers have?
These are just some of the questions that dominated the debate in 2022 about how the fashion industry can reduce its impact on the planet and safeguard its hundreds of thousands of workers in poor countries.
Going into 2023, there are soaring energy prices in Europe, global supply chain disruptions and spikes in the cost of living in many parts of the world. These factors are all expected to pose challenges for an industry under pressure from regulators and consumers to find meaningful solutions -- fast.
Here are some of the most memorable moments when it came to responsible fashion in 2022.
Shein Continued Its Fast-Fashion Dominance
A lot of people don't know how to pronounce Shein (it's "she-in"), the Chinese fast-fashion behemoth, but chances are they've probably heard of it, shopped for its clothes or perhaps even boycotted it.
Shein grabbed plenty of headlines in 2022: There were labor violation investigations and allegations of elevated levels of lead in some products. At the Copenhagen Fashion Summit in June, Shein pledged $ 15 million over three years to the Or Foundation, a charity working at Kantamanto, the world's largest secondhand clothing market, in Accra, Ghana. The pledge prompted suggestions of greenwashing as the company continued to make a fortune from sales of supercheap clothes.
It's hard to tell whether these negative reports have affected the company. According to research compiled by Money.co.uk and published in December, Shein was the world's most popular fashion brand this year. After analyzing a year's worth of search data on Google, Shein topped the list of most-searched-for brands in 113 countries in the world, beating Zara to the top spot.
The Founder of Patagonia Gave Away His Company to Fight Climate Change
Patagonia has long positioned itself as a brand at the forefront of the war against climate change, giving away 1 percent of its sales to environmental causes since 1985. But this year, the outdoor clothing retailer's founder, Yvon Chouinard, took a bold step: He gave his company away.
He, his wife and children handed Patagonia to a nonprofit group, designed to ensure that all of the company's profits -- some $ 100 million a year -- are used to fund conservation efforts around the globe. While it is a move that, according to Bloomberg, will allow the Chouinard family to avoid a substantial tax hit, it also may set a precedent for fashion's numerous other mega-rich dynasties.
Stars Did a Different Kind of Turn on the Red Carpet
In 2022, the message spread that for the fashion industry to reduce its environmental footprint, more brands will need to incorporate repair, resale and rental services into their business models. Spurred by the rise in popularity of rental clothing, which has already been embraced by influencers, a handful of megawatt stars also began renting high fashion for red-carpet appearances. The most notable outing this year? A turn earlier this month by the Princess of Wales, who wore a Kermit green off-the-shoulder frock by Emilia Wickstead to the Earthshot Prize Awards ceremony in Boston, that she rented for £74, about $ 90, from the British website Hurr.
Big Questions About How Fashion Measures Progress
The Sustainable Apparel Coalition has been one of fashion's most powerful sustainability-focused trade groups. Its tools, known as the Higg Index, are used by companies including Walmart, Nike and H&M Group, and were seen as a de facto industry standard to measure environmental and social impact. Until it wasn't.
Regulators in Norway said this spring that Higg data was not sufficient for environmental marketing claims. A Quartz investigation found H&M's environmental scores were "misleading" and "outright deceptive." And a New York Times article said the index strongly favored synthetic materials made from fossil fuels over natural ones like cotton or leather.
Fueled by other controversies such as the fraudulent auditing of organic cotton in India, the debate over how fashion can create a standardized way to measure and substantiate sustainability claims by companies is only getting more heated, with no clear solution in sight.
New Laws Aimed at Fixing the Fashion Industry
This year many governments seemed to wake up to the fact that companies are not reforming themselves at a pace and scale that will meaningfully combat climate change. In January, organizers of the Fashion Act introduced a bill that, if passed, would make New York the first state in the country to pass legislation that would set broad sustainability regulations.
In May, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand introduced the federal FABRIC Act, aiming to introduce better labor protections for U.S. garment workers as well as manufacturing incentives. In November, the European Commission proposed new rules to reduce packaging waste that would affect things like perfume bottles and e-commerce packaging.
Beefing up government oversight may be a messy and slow process, but its start has climate advocates encouraged.
A Changing Relationship Between Fast Fashion and Reality TV
The symbiotic relationship between reality television shows and fast fashion brands like Fashion Nova, Shein and Boohoo is well established. But in May, "Love Island," the hit British reality dating show that has turned scores of contestants into influencers, embraced a new sponsor, eBay UK.
For several years, "Love Island" contestants wore the fast-fashion brand I Saw It First, which sells clothes for as little as $ 3. But this season, contestants wore pre-loved clothes and accessories to promote responsible shopping.
In September, the internet went into a sharp-tongued uproar when Kourtney Kardashian Barker was unveiled by Boohoo as its latest collaborator and sustainability ambassador. But, overall, there seems to be more scrutiny about how reality TV and fast fashion are both peddling a false egalitarianism, or a way for everyday people to embody aspirational lifestyles.
New Materials and Manufacturing Processes
The fashion industry is still heavily reliant on fossil-fuel-based fabrics and materials. A December report by the environmental lobbying group Changing Markets Foundation found that brands continue to mask a dependence on synthetics under the guise of increasing their commitment to sustainable materials.
Still, while invention should not be overly prioritized over implementation, which is what really guarantees change, a number of innovations drew attention this year that have the potential to change some fashion manufacturing processes. A new textile recycling plant in Sweden, run by Renewcell, which creates a material called Circulose from cotton waste, said it has reached its full production capacity after signing deals with brands like H&M and Zara.
Stella McCartney, who invested in Mylo, a mycelium material produced by Bolt Threads, as part of a 2020 consortium including Kering, Adidas and Lululemon, introduced a new venture with Protein Evolution that will process leftover mixed nylon and polyesters into new material for use in new clothing. And innovative textiles like seaweed fabric, mushroom leather and pea silk have also been gaining momentum, as well as Spinnova, a natural fiber that is compostable and recyclable and made without water or any harmful chemicals.
Garment Workers Stood Up for Their Rights
Fashion brands rarely own the factories that make their clothes. The vast majority of garment and footwear orders are outsourced to suppliers in emerging markets, where overhead is cheap and the cost of human labor is even cheaper. In 2022, hundreds of thousands of garment workers, who power the global clothing trade, took to the streets to protest wages and working conditions as inflation and canceled orders took a toll. In Haiti, Thailand, Myanmar, Bangladesh and Pakistan, many used social media to alert the world to their cause.
The news in December that factory workers in Pakistan would now be protected under the International Accord, a legally enforceable health and safety agreement, was a significant step. But the furor at the start of the World Cup over the mistreatment of thousands of workers making soccer uniforms for the likes of Adidas and Nike was another stark reminder that there remains a long way to go.
Photograph From far left: Catherine, Princess of Wales, in a rented gown, and Prince William in Boston last month; Shein's first permanent showroom opened in Tokyo in November; Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, center, introduced the FABRIC Act in May. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE COPPOLA/GETTY IMAGES; YUICHI YAMAZAKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES OFFICE OF US SENATOR KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND) (ST6-ST7); Kourtney Kardashian Barker was criticized for her role as sustainability ambassador for Boohoo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELA WEISS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (ST7) This article appeared in print on page ST6, ST7.

Subject: Fashion; Sustainable materials; Cotton; Professional soccer; Alliances; Sustainability; Clothing; False information; Manufacturing; Reality programming; Climate change; Textiles; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Sustainable materials Manufacturing Factories

Location: New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; Wales; Pakistan

People: Kardashian, Kourtney; Gillibrand, Kirsten E

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/28/fashion/eight-important-moments-in-responsible-fashion-this-year.html

Title: The Push for Sustainability:   [Series ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 8, 2023

column: Responsible Fashion

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761602955

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/push-sustainability/docview/2761602955/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions