____________________________________________________________

Ideas for Jump Starting a Stuck Life: [Science Desk]

Author: Caron, Christina

Publication info: Caron, Christina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ideas-jump-starting-stuck-life/docview/2919610317/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mental health experts suggest exercises to knock down the internal roadblocks that are causing burnout and holding you back.
From the outside, it looked as though Adam Alter was gliding along.
At 28, he had earned a doctorate in psychology from Princeton and soon afterward landed a job as a tenure-track professor at the N.Y.U. Stern School of Business.
But he felt stuck. Preparing to teach while simultaneously doing research became overwhelming, especially after having just emerged from five intense years of graduate school. And although he was often surrounded by people in New York City, he missed having a close network of friends.
He likened it to being trapped on a conveyor belt. "I was making a career for myself," he said, "but I wasn't sure if those were the ways I wanted to succeed."
Dr. Alter, who has now been a professor for 15 years, has devoted much of his career to researching the notion of feeling stuck. In 2020, he surveyed hundreds of people on the topic, and every respondent said they felt stalled in at least one area: failed creative pursuits, stagnant careers, unsatisfying relationships, an inability to save money -- the list went on.
Why we get stuck
Falling into a rut or feeling stagnant from time to time is a universal experience, said Dr. Alter, whose latest book, "Anatomy of a Breakthrough," offers 100 ways to get unstuck.
Why? When tackling any long-term goal, you will inevitably hit a plateau, he said. And because some goals don't have clear end points, it can be difficult to feel like you're making progress.
Other sticking points can originate from big life changes like illness, having a baby, moving or being laid off. Dr. Alter found that people tend to be especially self-reflective when approaching a new decade, for example at ages 29 or 39, and that these turning points can feel overwhelming when life isn't going as planned.
How to get unstuck
Do a 'friction audit': The friction audit is one way organizations weed out areas of inefficiency. Individuals can apply the same principles to their own lives by identifying the things that create obstacles and add complications or stress, Dr. Alter said.
To get started, try asking: Am I repeating certain patterns that are unhelpful? Are there certain things I do regularly that I don't enjoy? The next step is to either trim away or smooth out each friction point. Say you dread your commute but feel powerless to change it. Dr. Alter suggested asking yourself: "What's the part that makes it most unappealing?" What specific changes can you make to address the problem? Will it help to listen to a great podcast or audiobook? If you drive, can you start a car pool with other co-workers? Is there a way to work from home more often?
Reframe negative thoughts: Maybe you engage in "catastrophizing," or thinking the worst will happen. Or maybe you are overly harsh with yourself and have a case of "the shoulds," as in: "I should have gotten more done at work," even when you accomplished a good amount. Persistent thoughts like these can create stress and interfere with your goals, said Judy Ho, a clinical neuropsychologist and associate professor at Pepperdine University.
Try to reframe your thinking, Dr. Ho suggested. For example, instead of "I'm going to fail at this project," you can think, "I'm going to do the best I can, and if I'm struggling I will ask for help." Finally, she said, aim to evaluate your thoughts objectively: "I'm having this thought. What's the evidence for it? And what's the evidence against it?"
Try 'futurecasting': "Imagine a future life where you are unstuck," said Sarah Sarkis, a clinical psychologist and executive coach in Boston. What does it look like? How do you feel?
Then think about the specific steps that would help you work toward that vision. Write those steps down -- ideally by hand. This helps us commit to them, Dr. Sarkis said. And don't wait until you feel "ready," she added. Do at least one step each day if you can -- but be kind to yourself if you cannot. If you skip a day or two, just start again tomorrow. "Paint the future that you're seeking," Dr. Sarkis said. "Map a plan to get there."
Share your goal: Telling other people about your plans can also be helpful. Adam Cheyer, the co-creator of Siri and the vice president of A.I. Experience at Airbnb, has said that this was crucial to his success. "Just the force of putting the words into the world now makes you believe -- makes you commit," he told an audience at the University of California, Berkeley. The added benefit is that people may want to help you out. "Somehow, the universe will help you achieve this goal," he said. "It's been a huge, huge tool for me."
Do something meaningful: Spending time on activities that align with your values "moves you forward if you feel stuck in completely unrelated domains of your life," Dr. Alter said. When he was feeling unmotivated early in his teaching career, he came across a poster at his gym -- a group was looking for volunteers to help raise money for the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society by running in the New York City Marathon. It felt almost like fate, he said; one of his friends had died from leukemia years earlier. While training, he ended up making several friends. "I felt like a more productive person and it gave me confidence to tackle other areas of my life," he said. "We need meaning more than ever when we're feeling stuck."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Friction; Careers; Leukemia; Marathons

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/25/well/mind/mental-health-exercises-life-goals.html

Title: Ideas for Jump Starting a Stuck Life:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 30, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2919610317

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ideas-jump-starting-stuck-life/docview/2919610317/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump Joins Motion to Disqualify District Attorney in Georgia Election Case: [National Desk]

Author: Fausset, Richard; Hakim, Danny

Publication info: Fausset, Richard; Hakim, Danny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-joins-motion-disqualify-district-attorney/docview/2918427225/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donald J. Trump's lawyers argued that Fani T. Willis violated state bar rules when she claimed in a recent speech that racism was behind the effort to remove her.
Lawyers for former President Donald J. Trump on Thursday joined an effort to disqualify Fani T. Willis from leading the election interference case against Mr. Trump in Georgia, on the grounds that she created a conflict of interest by hiring her romantic partner to help prosecute the case.
Mr. Trump's lawyers also raised a new argument for ousting Ms. Willis, the Fulton County district attorney: that she violated state bar rules when she claimed in a recent speech that racism was behind the effort to remove her.
The relationship claim surfaced on Jan. 8 in a filing from Michael Roman, one of Mr. Trump's co-defendants in the Georgia case. Six days later, Ms. Willis, who is Black, gave a speech at a church in Atlanta in which she suggested that her critics were "playing the race card" by criticizing her hiring of the special prosecutor, Nathan J. Wade, who is also Black.
Ms. Willis has neither confirmed nor denied a relationship with Mr. Wade, though she has been ordered to provide a written response to Mr. Roman's motion by next week.
The filing on Thursday from Mr. Trump's lawyers called Ms. Willis's comments "a glaring, flagrant and calculated effort to foment racial bias into this case by publicly denouncing the defendants for somehow daring to question her decision to hire a Black man."
Ms. Willis's statement, the lawyers wrote, violated a section of the state bar's rules of conduct for Georgia prosecutors that instructs them to "refrain from making extrajudicial comments that have a substantial likelihood of heightening public condemnation of the accused."
The statement could prejudice "prospective jurors in Fulton County," the lawyers wrote in their filing.
(Mr. Trump has in the past accused Ms. Willis of being a "racist" prosecutor, and has said the same of other Black prosecutors trying cases against him.)
The lawyers asked the judge overseeing the Georgia case, Scott McAfee of Fulton County Superior Court, to dismiss the indictment and disqualify Ms. Willis. Any special prosecutors hired for the case should also be disqualified, they said, as well as Ms. Willis's entire office.
Anthony Michael Kreis, a law professor at Georgia State University, said that the Trump lawyers' new argument was unlikely to succeed, given the "vague" language that Ms. Willis used in her speech, which did not mention the defendants. "It's a motion for the court of public opinion, not Judge McAfee," he said.
Thursday's filing is the latest effort to capitalize on the accusations in Mr. Roman's motion seeking to disqualify Ms. Willis. In that Jan. 8 motion, Mr. Roman argued that Mr. Wade was unqualified for the job and claimed that he used some of his salary from the district attorney's office to take Ms. Willis on vacations.
The motion also argues that both Mr. Wade and Ms. Willis "have acquired a personal interest and stake in Mr. Roman's conviction, thus depriving Mr. Roman of his right to a fundamentally fair trial."
Last week, a divorce lawyer for Mr. Wade's estranged wife produced credit card transactions showing that Mr. Wade bought airline tickets for himself and Ms. Willis in the last two years for trips to Miami and San Francisco.
The conflict-of-interest accusations have cast a shadow over the Georgia case, though they do not change its underlying facts. Last August, a grand jury brought racketeering indictments against Mr. Trump and 18 others over their roles in a plot to overturn the state's 2020 election results.
Four of the defendants have already pleaded guilty. Georgia is now one of a half-dozen swing states that either have charged or are investigating fake electors who were deployed in an attempt to keep Mr. Trump in power.
Several potential problems have emerged for Ms. Willis in the wake of the accusations. The most immediate is that Judge McAfee will have to rule on Mr. Roman's motion to disqualify her. The judge has scheduled a hearing for Feb. 15. Mr. Roman's motion also seeks to dismiss the seven charges against him, including a racketeering charge.
While disqualification might seem like an extreme measure, there is already precedent within the Trump case itself. In July 2022, Judge McAfee's predecessor, Robert C.I. McBurney, disqualified Ms. Willis and her entire office from developing a criminal case against Burt Jones, now Georgia's lieutenant governor, because Ms. Willis had headlined a fund-raiser for a political opponent of Mr. Jones.
Other threats to Ms. Willis loom. Republican lawmakers have created a commission to oversee, and potentially discipline, district attorneys in Georgia. That commission is expected to be up and running later this year, and is almost certain to investigate Ms. Willis's conduct.
Separately, Fulton County is looking into whether Ms. Willis ran afoul of an ordinance prohibiting county officials from receiving anything of value from people doing business with the county. In a letter to Ms. Willis last week, a county commissioner demanded documents in an effort to determine whether county funds paid to Mr. Wade "were converted to your personal gain in the form of subsidized travel or other gifts."
Legal experts disagree on whether a relationship between the two prosecutors would be sufficient grounds for Judge McAfee to throw them off the case.
But a number of them believe that the motion is already a win for Mr. Trump and the other defendants, noting that future jurors in the election case are very likely hearing about the allegations. That could potentially influence their thinking about the prosecution.
"This is certainly a huge political boon for the defense, and it's certainly going to be used as a cudgel against the entire prosecutorial enterprise and investigative process," Mr. Kreis, the Georgia State law professor, said.
Ms. Willis has not addressed the allegation of a romantic relationship with Mr. Wade, who is in the middle of a contentious divorce. During her speech on Jan. 14, in which she repeatedly referred to herself as "flawed," she noted that critics "only attack one" of the three special prosecutors whom she hired for the Georgia case -- Mr. Wade.
"God, isn't it them who's playing the race card when they only question one?" she said.
Days after the speech, Ms. Willis sought to quash a subpoena seeking her testimony in Mr. Wade's divorce case. Her filing claimed that Mr. Wade's estranged wife, Joycelyn Wade, had "conspired" with "interested parties" in the Trump case to "annoy, embarrass and oppress" her.
Mr. Wade has been ordered to appear next Wednesday at a hearing on the divorce. Ms. Wade's lawyer, Andrea Dyer Hastings, has said that she plans to question him on the stand.
Court filings from Ms. Wade this week show that her lawyer is hoping to introduce a flurry of documents into the divorce case, presumably in an effort to further prove a relationship between Mr. Wade and Ms. Willis. The documents include credit card statements and bank records, as well as documents from Airbnb and Vacation Express, a seller of vacation packages in the Caribbean and Mexico.
Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, the Georgia Republican who is a close ally of Mr. Trump, filed a complaint against Mr. Wade with the state ethics commission on Thursday, calling him Ms. Willis's "secret boyfriend," and calling the case against Mr. Trump a "self-serving gambit."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: Indictments; Court hearings & proceedings; Conflicts of interest; Racism; Race; Special counsels; District attorneys; Scandals; Racketeering

Business indexing term: Subject: Conflicts of interest

Location: United States--US; Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/25/us/trump-fani-willis-georgia-disqualify.html

Title: Trump Joins Motion to Disqualify District Attorney in Georgia Election Case:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 26, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918427225

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-joins-motion-disqualify-district-attorney/docview/2918427225/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Devil's Breath' Blamed As Visitors to Colombia Are Drugged on Dates: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Correal, Annie; Glatsky, Genevieve

Publication info: Correal, Annie; Glatsky, Genevieve. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/devils-breath-blamed-as-visitors-colombia-are/docview/2917726324/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Steven Valdez thought he recognized the woman in the Medellín park. Chatting, the two realized they had matched on the dating platform Tinder. They exchanged numbers and made plans.
On their date last spring, he said the woman suggested that he try a typical Colombian dish -- a creamy soup called ajiaco. She carried it from a restaurant counter to their table.
He had two spoonfuls, Mr. Valdez, 31, said. "And that's the last thing I remember."
Like scores of visitors to the Colombian city last year, Mr. Valdez, a travel blogger, said he was told at the hospital that he had ingested a powerful, potentially fatal cocktail of sedatives, including a drug called scopolamine.
Scopolamine makes its victims black out, and experts say it can also make them unusually open to suggestion -- including agreeing to hand over a wallet or reveal passwords.
American officials are so concerned that they issued a security alert this month about the sedatives and a wave of violent crime targeting visitors to Colombia, especially in the increasingly popular tourist destination of Medellín, a city of 2.6 million in a valley of the Andes Mountains.
The U.S. Embassy, in a previous security alert, describes scopolamine as an "odorless, tasteless, memory-blocking substance used to incapacitate and rob unwary victims" and warns of using dating applications in Colombia or visiting nightclubs and bars.
Colombian officials say many of the incidents involve the city's sex industry.
"Unfortunately, due to word of mouth, people are identifying that in Medellín there are pretty girls and you can party really hard at a very low cost," said Carlos Calle, who monitors the tourism industry for the city government. "Criminals are taking advantage of that."
Since the pandemic, Medellín has also drawn thousands of digital nomads seeking cultural immersion and a cheap Airbnb, and investigators and lawyers say that they, too, are being targeted on mainstream dating platforms like Tinder.
Tinder did not respond to a request for comment.
While deaths are relatively rare, authorities in Medellín said the number of robberies involving scopolamine and other sedatives has risen sharply in recent years, though the exact number is unknown, since many victims do not go to the police.
"There are people who feel too embarrassed because if they file a report, people will know what they were doing," said Manuel Villa Mejía, the city's security secretary.
Jorge Wilson Vélez, a forensic criminologist who works with victims and their families, said there were likely hundreds of victims last year.
Perpetrators see the robberies as a tax on tourists whom they view as wealthy and in Colombia to prey on women, Mr. Vélez said. The intent is not to kill anybody, he added. "They call it, 'giving the guys something to sleep."'
Last year, Medellín saw 1.4 million foreign visitors, nearly 40 percent of whom were American, according to city data.
Crimes against American visitors have stirred fears in the expat community. An English-language Facebook group, Colombia Scopolamine Victims & Alerts, has about 3,800 members.
Americans are being hit, Mr. Vélez said, because they're going online "looking for company, a relationship," and especially when they go on dates alone.
Scopolamine, also known as "devil's breath," has been reported elsewhere in Latin America and beyond, with cases popping up from London to Bangkok.
But the drug's rise in Colombia, and the embassy's warning to Americans, comes as a particular blow to a country trying hard to change its image.
Medellín, in particular, has struggled to shed associations with drugs, violence and Pablo Escobar. The city has undergone a major transformation since the 1990s, boasting sleek museums, cafes on tree-lined streets, and the country's only metro system. While some criminal gangs remain, the city's homicide rates have plunged.
Crimes targeting tourists may tarnish that rosy picture -- but so, too, do the tourists themselves, according to officials and lawyers who represent men targeted by thieves, who say some are treating Medellín like a lurid playground.
"There's this weird mystique. You come to Medellín, and the normal rules don't apply," said Alan Gongora, an American lawyer in Medellín. "Like, anything is possible."
Some crime victims said they were just looking for a date.
During the pandemic, Mr. Valdez left Los Angeles, where he worked in television production, to travel and work on his blogs, including one called We Like Colombia. He was in Medellín last May, working and taking bachata lessons, he said, when he opened Tinder to find a dance partner.
After his date with a woman who called herself Luisa, he said he woke up in his Airbnb, alone and unable to stand up. His right leg felt broken.
The police later told him his captors had beat him, likely because he had resisted being robbed, Mr. Valdez said. Hospital blood tests revealed the presence of scopolamine and another drug, clonazepam, a depressant.
He lost his phones, laptop, wallet and about $ 7,000, he said.
But he felt lucky to be alive.
Mr. Valdez reported the attack, and his date and several others were arrested after trying to use his bank cards to purchase appliances at a store, according to the police.
He tries to keep what happened in perspective. "I've been to Colombia, like, eight times now since the pandemic," said Mr. Valdez, who now lives in Puerto Rico. "I've seen organized crime is rampant because prices are going so high over there. You know, the regular citizens can't afford it."
Criminal groups that lure victims through dating platforms are typically small, unaffiliated crews from poor neighborhoods, investigators in Medellín said.
One 42-year-old man from New York recalled being drugged by a Tinder date who served him a rum and coke that he said knocked him out for 24 hours.
She stole his electronic devices, silver jewelry, a bank card and cash. "I thought I had lost everything," said the man, who asked to go by his initials, R.J., to protect future job prospects. But his passport and IDs were right where he had hidden them. A police report viewed by The Times corroborated details of the crime.
Leaving a passport, investigators said, is a signature of these crimes -- meant to encourage victims to leave without reporting the robbery or pressing charges.
Some thieves can be sophisticated.
In December, a young German scientist touring Latin America and posting videos under the name Dr. Travel said he was robbed in Medellín by a woman he was "chatting with" after joining her and her friend for a meal.
He drank a pink soda, he said in a video, and later awoke to find his wallet and phone gone. His phone's tracking function was deactivated, his Apple ID password changed and his bank account drained. Holdings in several cryptocurrency exchanges were sold, the funds moved to other crypto wallets.
He lost more than $ 16,000, he said. Attempts to reach the man were unsuccessful.
Scopolamine has long been used to treat motion sickness and nausea, but became popular in larger doses around three decades ago as a recreational drug and to commit crimes, said Guillermo Castaño, a senior investigator for Colombia's science ministry.
Around 10 years ago, criminals in Colombia started using it to target tourists, Dr. Castaño said, often mixing it with benzodiazepines, depressants that typically treat insomnia and anxiety, to further incapacitate victims.
In a widely publicized case, Paul Nguyen, a 27-year-old from California, was fatally drugged by a Tinder date in Medellín in late 2022, his body found near a dumpster. An autopsy determined he had been drugged with clonazepam, which, combined with alcohol, had caused his death.
His date and several accomplices were arrested and are now on trial, tracked down with the help of a photo of the woman that Mr. Nguyen posted on Snapchat before he disappeared.
Medellín authorities have said stopping the attacks is a top priority. Four people were recently arrested in connection with the murder of another American tourist who may have met a date online.
Still, arrests are rare.
Mr. Nguyen's mother, Kimberly Dao, said the family had to hire Mr. Vélez, the investigator, to push the police to pursue the case.
For Ms. Dao, the U.S. Embassy alert about online dating in Colombia is a sign the issue is being taken seriously -- though she wished it had come sooner.
If it had, she said, "I would beg him, I would not let him go."
Federico Rios contributed reporting from Medellín, Colombia, and Simon Posada contributed reporting from Bogotá, Colombia.
Photograph Steven Valdez at his home in Puerto Rico this week. On a date in Medellín, Colombia, he was drugged, beaten and robbed, he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIKA P. RODRÍGUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Paul Nguyen of California took a photo of his companion on a Tinder date in 2022 in Medellín, a popular tourist destination. He was drugged, and his dead body was found near a dumpster. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FEDERICO RIOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Carlos Calle, a tourist official, said Medellín is known as a place where "you can party really hard." (PHOTOGRAPH BY FEDERICO RIOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Victims of crime; Tourist attractions; Pandemics; Diplomatic & consular services; Anesthesia; Criminal investigations; Robbery; Murders & murder attempts; Personal relationships

Location: United States--US; Latin America; Puerto Rico; California; Colombia

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/23/world/americas/colombia-dating-apps-sedatives-deaths.html

Title: 'Devil's Breath' Blamed As Visitors to Colombia Are Drugged on Dates:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2917726324

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/devils-breath-blamed-as-visitors-colombia-are/docview/2917726324/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Hazard for Visitors to Colombia: ‘Devil’s Breath’

Author: Correal, Annie; Glatsky, Genevieve

Publication info: Correal, Annie; Glatsky, Genevieve. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hazard-visitors-colombia-devil-s-breath/docview/2917652768/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BOGOTÁ, Colombia — Steven Valdez thought he recognized the woman in the Medellín park. Chatting, the two realized they had matched on the dating platform Tinder. They exchanged numbers and made plans.
On their date last spring, he said the woman suggested that he try a typical Colombian dish — a creamy soup called ajiaco. She carried it from a restaurant counter to their table.
He had two spoonfuls, Valdez, 31, said. “And that’s the last thing I remember.”
Like scores of visitors to the Colombian city last year, Valdez, a travel blogger, said he was told at the hospital that he had ingested a powerful, potentially fatal cocktail of sedatives, including a drug called scopolamine.
Scopolamine makes its victims black out, and experts say it can also make them unusually open to suggestion — including agreeing to hand over a wallet or reveal passwords.
American officials are so concerned that they issued a security alert this month about the sedatives and a wave of violent crime targeting visitors to Colombia, especially in the increasingly popular tourist destination of Medellín, a city of 2.6 million in a valley of the Andes Mountains.
The U.S. Embassy, in a previous security alert, describes scopolamine as an “odorless, tasteless, memory-blocking substance used to incapacitate and rob unwary victims” and warns of using dating applications in Colombia or visiting nightclubs and bars.
Colombian officials say many of the incidents involve the city’s sex industry.
“Unfortunately, due to word-of-mouth, people are identifying that in Medellín, there are pretty girls, and you can party really hard at a very low cost,” said Carlos Calle, who monitors the tourism industry for the city government. “Criminals are taking advantage of that.”
Since the pandemic, Medellín has also drawn thousands of digital nomads seeking cultural immersion and a cheap Airbnb, and investigators and lawyers say that they, too, are being targeted on mainstream dating platforms like Tinder.
Tinder did not respond to a request for comment.
While deaths are relatively rare, authorities in Medellín said the number of robberies involving scopolamine and other sedatives has risen sharply in recent years, though the exact number is unknown, since many victims do not go to the police.
“There are people who feel too embarrassed because if they file a report, people will know what they were doing,” said Manuel Villa Mejía, the city’s security secretary.
Jorge Wilson Vélez, a forensic criminologist who works with victims and their families, said there were likely hundreds of victims last year.
Perpetrators see the robberies as a tax on tourists whom they view as wealthy and in Colombia to prey on women, Vélez said. The intent is not to kill anybody, he added, saying, “They call it ‘giving the guys something to sleep.’”
Last year, Medellín saw 1.4 million foreign visitors, nearly 40% of whom were American, according to city data.
Crimes against American visitors have stirred fears in the expat community. An English-language Facebook group, Colombia Scopolamine Victims & Alerts, has about 3,800 members.
Americans are being hit, Vélez said, because they’re going online “looking for company, a relationship,” and especially when they go on dates alone.
Scopolamine, also known as “devil’s breath,” has been reported elsewhere in Latin America and beyond, with cases popping up from London to Bangkok.
But the drug’s rise in Colombia and the embassy’s warning to Americans come as a particular blow to a country trying hard to change its image.
Medellín, in particular, has struggled to shed associations with drugs, violence and Pablo Escobar. The city has undergone a major transformation since the 1990s, boasting sleek museums, cafes on tree-lined streets, and the country’s only metro system. While some criminal gangs remain, the city’s homicide rates have plunged.
Crimes targeting tourists may tarnish that rosy picture — but so, too, do the tourists themselves, according to officials and lawyers who represent men targeted by thieves, who say some are treating Medellín like a lurid playground.
“There’s this weird mystique. You come to Medellín, and the normal rules don’t apply,” said Alan Gongora, an American lawyer in Medellín. “Like, anything is possible.”
Some crime victims said they were just looking for a date.
During the pandemic, Valdez left Los Angeles, where he worked in television production, to travel and work on his blogs, including one called We Like Colombia. He was in Medellín last May, working and taking bachata lessons, he said, when he opened Tinder to find a dance partner.
After his date with a woman who called herself Luisa, he said he woke up in his Airbnb, alone and unable to stand up. His right leg felt broken.
Police later told him his captors had beaten him, likely because he had resisted being robbed, Valdez said. Hospital blood tests revealed the presence of scopolamine and another drug, clonazepam, a depressant.
He lost his phones, laptop, wallet and about $7,000, he said.
But he felt lucky to be alive.
Valdez reported the attack, and his date and several others were arrested after trying to use his bank cards to purchase appliances at a store, according to the police.
He tries to keep what happened in perspective. “I’ve been to Colombia, like, eight times now since the pandemic,” said Valdez, who now lives in Puerto Rico. “I’ve seen organized crime is rampant because prices are going so high over there. You know, the regular citizens can’t afford it.”
Criminal groups that lure victims through dating platforms are typically small, unaffiliated crews from poor neighborhoods, investigators in Medellín said.
One 42-year-old man from New York recalled being drugged by a Tinder date who served him a rum and coke that he said knocked him out for 24 hours.
She stole his electronic devices, silver jewelry, a bank card and cash. “I thought I had lost everything,” said the man, who asked to go by his initials, R.J., to protect future job prospects. But his passport and IDs were right where he had hidden them. A police report viewed by The New York Times corroborated details of the crime.
Leaving a passport, investigators said, is a signature of these crimes — meant to encourage victims to leave without reporting the robbery or pressing charges.
Some thieves can be sophisticated.
In December, a young German scientist touring Latin America and posting videos under the name Dr. Travel said he was robbed in Medellín by a woman he was “chatting with” after joining her and her friend for a meal.
He drank a pink soda, he said in a video, and later awoke to find his wallet and phone gone. His phone’s tracking function was deactivated, his Apple ID password changed and his bank account drained. Holdings in several cryptocurrency exchanges were sold, the funds moved to other crypto wallets.
He lost more than $16,000, he said. Attempts to reach the man were unsuccessful.
Scopolamine has long been used to treat motion sickness and nausea, but it became popular in larger doses around three decades ago as a recreational drug and to commit crimes, said Guillermo Castaño, a senior investigator for Colombia’s science ministry.
Around 10 years ago, criminals in Colombia started using it to target tourists, Castaño said, often mixing it with benzodiazepines, depressants that typically treat insomnia and anxiety, to further incapacitate victims.
In a widely publicized case, Paul Nguyen, a 27-year-old from California, was fatally drugged by a Tinder date in Medellín in late 2022, his body found near a dumpster. An autopsy determined he had been drugged with clonazepam, which, combined with alcohol, had caused his death.
His date and several alleged accomplices were arrested and are now on trial, tracked down with the help of a photo of the woman that Nguyen posted on Snapchat before he disappeared.
Medellín authorities have said stopping the attacks is a top priority. Four people were recently arrested in connection with the death of another American tourist who may have met a date online.
Still, arrests are rare.
Nguyen’s mother, Kimberly Dao, said the family had to hire Vélez, the investigator, to push the police to pursue the case.
For Dao, the U.S. Embassy alert about online dating in Colombia is a sign the issue is being taken seriously — though she wished it had come sooner.
If it had, she said, “I would beg him, I would not let him go.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Victims of crime; Pandemics; Diplomatic & consular services; Anesthesia; Criminal investigations; Robbery; Murders & murder attempts; Personal relationships

Location: New York; United States--US; Latin America; Colombia

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

Identifier / keyword: Computer Security; Restaurants; Airbnb; English Language; California; International Relations; Robberies And Thefts; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Banking And Financial Institutions; Assaults; Passports; United States; London (England); Organized Crime; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Electronic Health Records; Puerto Rico; Fugitives; Telecommuting; Apple Inc; Police; Germany; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Snap Inc; Bangkok (Thailand); Jewels And Jewelry; Tinder (Mobile App); Sedatives; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); World; Motion Sickness; Facebook Inc; Crime And Criminals; Deaths (Fatalities); Escobar, Pablo; Income Inequality; Online Dating; Diplomatic Service, Embassies And Consulates; Virtual Currency; United States International Relations; Latin America; Missing Persons; Travel And Vacations; Bars And Nightclubs; Drug Abuse And Traff ic; New York Times; Tests (Medical); Anxiety And Stress; Colombia

Title: A Hazard for Visitors to Colombia: ‘Devil’s Breath’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 23, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-23T23:39:53Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2917652768

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hazard-visitors-colombia-devil-s-breath/docview/2917652768/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Futuristic Tokyo Building's Legacy Lives On: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Hornyak, Tim

Publication info: Hornyak, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/futuristic-tokyo-buildings-legacy-lives-on/docview/2916782973/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Fifty years ago, the Nakagin Capsule Tower was hailed as a marvel of organic architecture. Now its legacy lives on through 23 orphaned capsules.
In 1972, residents of Tokyo looked up to see something extraordinary looming over downtown. It looked like something out of a science-fiction film -- a futuristic tower composed of 140 detachable capsules, each suitable for a single resident and with a porthole looking out, like a pile of eyes fixed on the city.
With its modular design and minimal aesthetics, the 13-story Nakagin Capsule Tower was a marvel of 20th-century design intended to express a postwar Japanese theory of architecture as a living organism. Metabolism, as explained by the architect Kisho Kurokawa, who designed the tower, envisioned cities and buildings with modular parts that could be attached and detached as needed, just as some organisms grow new appendages.
"If you replace the capsules every 25 years, it could last 200 years," Kurokawa said in an interview in 2007, the year he died. "It's recyclable. I designed it as sustainable architecture."
Each capsule measured eight by 13 feet and was affixed to one of two central towers of reinforced concrete. But over the years, many of them were abandoned and left to decay, and residents finally decided to let the building die rather than save it. Lamenting its fate, The New York Times called the Nakagin tower "an architectural tragedy."
After years of delays, the Nakagin Capsule Tower was dismantled in late 2022, its 140 prefabricated capsules plucked from their sockets one by one and discarded. Most were unsalvageable. But 23 pods managed to survive -- pieces with no puzzle.
Now, after some refurbishment, these orphan capsules are embarking on a surprising second life, pollinating new architectural ideas across Japan and the world, where they're being repurposed into art spaces, museum pieces and even holiday accommodations.
"Even though we couldn't save the building, Kisho Kurokawa's original idea of capsules as interchangeable, mobile elements gave us the impetus to preserve them," said Tatsuyuki Maeda, a former Nakagin resident and now the head of the Nakagin Capsule Tower Building Preservation and Regeneration Project.
Mr. Maeda, 56, fell in love with the tower when he first saw it as a boy, imagining it to be a base for the superhero of Japan's "Ultraman" science-fiction franchise. "I felt drawn to its unique exterior," he said. "I wanted to look out through one of those round windows someday."
Since the demolition, Mr. Maeda has fielded requests from wealthy people to buy the pods, but they're not for sale. Putting these Metabolist castaways in the care of museums and commercial facilities was the best solution.
"The concept was that when a capsule became old, it would be replaced with a new one," he said. "This meant that the capsule itself could be moved. By exhibiting capsules around the world, I want as many people as possible to understand this concept."
All 23 have been reborn -- their asbestos removed, their insides and outsides repaired and repainted, and in some cases new furnishings installed. Now they're finding a new purpose as messengers from a bygone design era. An Osaka steel company placed one on a trailer undercarriage and has been displaying it at trade shows in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka to promote its design brand. Another capsule was acquired by the Museum of Modern Art, Wakayama, which Kurokawa's studio designed in 1990. Kurokawa's own capsule found its way to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
"It is hard to find Metabolist drawings available, so when we heard that the Nakagin Tower residents were unsuccessful in their bid to restore the towers and it was going to be demolished, we decided to go and see the demolition and the saved towers to begin a conversation," said Jennifer Dunlop Fletcher, the Helen Hilton Raiser Curator of Architecture and Design at SFMOMA.
Erected on the edge of the upscale Ginza district, Kurokawa's capsule tower reimagined minimal modern living. Each capsule was just large enough for a bed, closet, workstation, bathroom and a porthole window. Deluxe versions came with a built-in Sony stereo, tape deck, color TV and digital clock.
At first, the pods were aimed at busy salarymen looking for a pied-à-terre downtown rather than a long commute. "This 'capsule' will provide a good living space and a secluded environment in which to select and evaluate business data," proclaimed an early sales brochure, advertising features like housekeepers, typewriters and calculators.
And more than just a convenient place to stay, Nakagin was a living art installation -- an expression of the postwar Japanese philosophy mixing modern architecture with organic biological growth.
The Metabolist movement, said Ms. Fletcher, "emphasized proof of concept, light environmental footprint and an early interest in biotechnology."
But like many living bodies, Kurokawa's tower encountered unexpected maladies.
Upon its completion in 1972, all the units were sold and the building basked in critical acclaim. But second-generation owners who had inherited capsules weren't as interested in using them, much less in paying for replacements when the steel shells began to deteriorate. The capsules had to be removed for renewal, which was prohibitively expensive. Asbestos was another major problem. As the decades passed, many units became corroded, and netting was placed over the structure to prevent pieces from crashing to the street below. Units were left vacant or used for storage.
In 2018, a real estate company purchased the land, along with some of the capsules, with plans for redevelopment. But the pandemic infected those plans. Since the tower was now certain to be knocked down, preservationists agreed to pay part of the demolition cost to the real estate company in exchange for the transfer of the 23 capsules free of charge.
Despite its premature demise, the tower had become an icon of Tokyo, attracting design enthusiasts from around the world. Even though most owners decided to sell, Nakagin had developed a small community of residents. In place of the salarymen of old, it drew writers, architects, photographers and other creatives. They held drinking parties, hosted famous visitors (among them Francis Ford Coppola and Keanu Reeves) and dreamed of saving the structure from the proverbial wrecking ball.
Takayuki Sekine bought two capsules in 2005 while he was a manager at a regional chamber of commerce. He spent weekends there for the next 15 years, always welcoming curious visitors.
"Everyone was very happy and enjoyed the unique space, with many saying it was their favorite building in the world," said Mr. Sekine, 61.
Shojiro Okuyama, 46, a journalist, bought a unit in 2016 in a bid to help save the building.
"We had the preservation project going at the time, but even so it was heartbreaking to see my own capsule being scrapped," he said. "I was first drawn to it because of the architecture, but it was the community that I came to really love. I hope the preserved capsules can spread that sense of community across borders."
Refurbished capsules are now drawing fans in Ginza, Tokyo's upscale shopping and nightlife district. The entertainment company Shochiku, known for its Kabuki theater, has put two on permanent display. At a recent gathering in its purpose-built gallery, Wakana Nitta, a musician who goes by the name Cosplay DJ Koe-chan, set up her turntables between the pods and began spinning tunes from anime shows and sci-fi films.
A former resident, Ms. Nitta, now 44, meticulously documented the tower's dismantling. At the recent event, her photos of cranes carrying capsules out of the structure were on display in a capsule that had been stripped down to its frame; the other, refurbished, displayed images of her life in her own pod, gazing out its porthole at Tokyo.
"It felt like aliens had taken me aboard a spaceship," she laughed. "With the cranes lifting them, the capsules finally flew through the sky like UFOs."
The Nakagin tower also lives on digitally. The architecture and design firm Gluon took more than 20,000 photos with drones and single-lens reflex cameras to record the entire building with civil-engineering laser scanners. The result is a precise 3-D rendering of the structure, rust stains and all, which has been uploaded to the internet for posterity.
For those who want to experience the real thing, Mr. Maeda and his colleagues plan to open a seaside "capsule village" in Kanagawa Prefecture, south of Tokyo, this year. Five refurbished Nakagin units will be set up along the coast, their portholes pointed toward the Pacific. The idea was inspired by a 1972 Kurokawa scheme outlined in a book that is on display at the only other place where you can sleep in one of his original pods: Capsule House K, the architect's own former cottage in the hills of Nagano Prefecture west of Tokyo. Now a $ 1,400-a-night Airbnb rental, it comprises four capsules, made at the same time as those for the Nakagin tower, attached to a concrete core. Two are identical to the Nakagin units, one is a kitchen, and one is a chashitsu, or traditional Japanese tearoom.
"He grew up in Aichi with a backyard tearoom where he and his siblings did their studies and played hide and seek," said Kurokawa's son, Mikio Kurokawa, 58, while showing a visitor the capsule on a recent afternoon. "It's said that a room this size allows Japanese to feel most relaxed."
Back in Tokyo, the Ginza Six shopping mall has unveiled another Nakagin homage: a mock-up of the Nakagin tower erected on a rooftop skating rink, with a capsule refurbished as a retro music room set up at a street-level entrance.
"How do the people of today, who live in the future, feel about the 'future ideas of the 1970s' that the Nakagin building held, and how will they connect these ideas to our own future?" asked Yoshiro Nishi, a spokesman for YAR, a design studio that did the interior. "We'll be happy if this exhibition can serve as a bridge from the past to the present and further into the future."
Thus far, 16 of the 23 rescued capsules have found new homes. As for Nakagin's legacy, it lives on in a variety of buildings: Kurokawa created the first capsule hotel, the Capsule Inn Osaka, which opened in 1979. Its units, stacked in twos, were only the width of a single mattress, but the concept was adopted in cities throughout Japan and even exported. It was an early example of how modular architecture, now seen in everything from residences to airports, can inspire.
"Under the Metabolism concept, the tower would remain and the capsules would be discarded like old cells," said Mikio Kurokawa. "The fact that due to the strong feelings of many people, some capsules have survived and been restored as new cells for new locations is perhaps even more interesting than Metabolism itself. Their architect would have been delighted."
Photograph The tower as it was being dismantled in 2022. Far left, the 140 single-occupancy cells were each detached and lowered by cranes. Center, Tatsuyuki Maeda heads the Nakagin Capsule Tower Building Preservation and Regeneration Project. At left is a schematic for an apartment, with views of the interiors below that. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIRO KOMAE/ASSOCIATED PRESS; NORITAKA MINAMI, VIA SFMOMA; CARL COURT/GETTY IMAGES; JIM O'CONNELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The architect Kisho Kurokawa, who designed the capsule tower and was an advocate for the Metabolism design movement, in 1970. Right, the tower under construction in 1971. It was completed the next year, and its designer expected it to stand for 200 years, with updates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE ASAHI SHIMBUN, VIA GETTY IMAGES; THE ASAHI SHIMBUN, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Below left, Wakana Nitta, a.k.a. Cosplay DJ Koe-chan, in her old capsule. "It felt like aliens had taken me aboard a spaceship," she said. Kurokawa's capsule cottage in Nagano, below, is a $ 1,400-a-night Airbnb rental. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES; TIM HORNYAK) This article appeared in print on page RE10.

Subject: Demolition; Design; Architecture; Modern art; Art galleries & museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Art galleries & museums

Location: Japan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/15/realestate/tokyo-japan-nakagin-tower.html

Title: A Futuristic Tokyo Building's Legacy Lives On:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 21, 2024

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916782973

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/futuristic-tokyo-buildings-legacy-lives-on/docview/2916782973/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How He Met His Wife? Well, It Was a Real Trip.: [Society Desk]

Author: Rosman, Katherine

Publication info: Rosman, Katherine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-he-met-his-wife-well-was-real-trip/docview/2916782935/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Josh Radnor, the star of "How I Met Your Mother," and Jordana Jacobs, a psychologist in Brooklyn, met while exploring the far reaches of consciousness and later said "I do" in a winter storm.
Josh Radnor and Jordana Jacobs were married outdoors this month, amid a snowstorm, with their 164 snow-drenched guests shivering in the 20-degree evening air, as Dr. Jacobs read a 10-minute monologue about her beloved, and Mr. Radnor responded with a 10-minute soliloquy.
No strangers to extraordinary circumstances, the couple fell for each other while tripping on mushrooms.
It was February 2022, and Dr. Jacobs, a clinical psychologist, and Mr. Radnor, an actor and musician, were at a sound meditation retreat held in upstate New York, along with about 30 other people. There, they ingested a psychedelic mixture before lying on the floor at opposite sides of a large room. Masks covered their eyes as they listened to singing bowls and chimes.
That is when Mr. Radnor and Dr. Jacobs slid into the DMs of each other's consciousness.
"That's her," Mr. Radnor, now 49, said a voice told him. "That's your woman."
Across the room and the psilocybin-infused metaverse, Dr. Jacobs, 36, was having a conversation with her heart.
"What do you have to tell me?" she asked it.
"You know that man over there across the room, Josh?" it replied. "You're drawn to him."
They had met the previous day, at the onset of the three-day retreat, which was centered around the meditation "ceremony."
Mr. Radnor, the star of the sitcom "How I Met Your Mother," who more recently appeared in "Fleishman Is in Trouble" on Hulu, had been processing a painful breakup for a few months. He bounced from his house in Los Angeles to his parents' place in Columbus, Ohio, to an Airbnb in Nashville, where he was recording an album with friends. Then he arrived in New York for a weekend of amplified self-evaluation.
Dr. Jacobs lives in Brooklyn, a subway ride from her close-knit family. She is a clinical psychologist with a private practice there. She graduated from Tufts University and received a doctorate of clinical psychology from Long Island University, Brooklyn.
She made the trip upstate that weekend as well because "these experiences have been very powerful for me in understanding who I am," she said. She, too, was healing from a broken relationship and had decided that this weekend would signify a new, less cerebral orientation in which she would be guided by her heart.
The night before the meditation, she and Mr. Radnor chatted for half an hour. "We just fell into a really easy, fun kind of getting-to-know-you session," he said.
They spoke of love and death, and the connection between them, which Dr. Jacobs told him she had studied. But she told him that she feared her approach was overly "academic and intellectual."
"I need more experience with both," she said. Mr. Radnor was intrigued. "I thought it was evidence of real depth," he said. "I thought she was formidable."
They discussed his songwriting, which also integrates themes of love and death, including in the album he was recording in Nashville, which he ultimately titled "Eulogy." Dr. Jacobs felt a spark, too.
Every couple has a version of flirting. This was theirs.
After their psychedelic experience, as part of Dr. Jacobs's new commitment to being guided by her emotions, she felt obligated to tell Mr. Radnor that she liked him.
She tapped him on the shoulder. "I had this experience in ceremony of listening to my heart," she told him, sheepishly, "and my heart is drawn to you."
Slightly panicked by the feelings stirring inside him, Mr. Radnor replied, "You came up for me in ceremony as well, but I'm not ready to talk about it."
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
Within minutes of leaving the retreat, he was ready. "Hi, it's Josh Radnor," he texted her.
This began a monthlong, modern-day epistolary courtship. They discussed their families -- both of their parents have had long, successful marriages. She has brothers (three), he has sisters (two).
They talked about her career and his creative efforts to escape the shadow cast by a long-running hit sitcom. Dr. Jacobs, a television buff, said she had never seen "How I Met Your Mother," which thrilled Mr. Radnor. "Fame robs you of an ability to make a first impression," he said.
They talked, texted and sent voice memos. "We were constantly in touch, sharing things we had written and things we had made," he said. "Thoughts, feelings, insights."
Weeks later, Mr. Radnor was cast in "Fleishman Is in Trouble," which was filming in New York. He sublet a friend's apartment in Brooklyn and invited Dr. Jacobs to meet him for dinner.
"We had a really beautiful and intense and powerful first date where we went very deep," she said.
Later that night, Mr. Radnor developed what he called a "vulnerability hangover" and told her "my walls had gone up," he said.
Rather than feeling rejected, Dr. Jacobs was moved by his honesty. "To me, it showed me that he could process with me in the moment and tell me what was going on for him," she said. "I just loved that."
They grew inseparable. He officially moved from Los Angeles to Brooklyn. She became enamored with his labradoodle, Nelson the Dog. Within months, they were discussing marriage.
"Actors and shrinks," said Gillian Sturtevant, Dr. Jacobs's close friend from high school, explaining the couple's compatible proclivity to talk (and talk) about their feelings.
They became engaged one morning in May in Joshua Tree, Calif. First, they meditated. Then Mr. Radnor casually suggested that they write each other love letters. His ended with a proposal.
Their friends view them as a perfect match. "They are in a perpetual 'college-dorm-go-deep' mode that most adults abandon after graduation," said Elliott Holt, a fiction writer who attended Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio, with Mr. Radnor.
The couple decided on a January wedding in New York, right before Mr. Radnor would start rehearsals for "The Ally," a new play opening in February at the Public Theater.
They settled on a location: Cedar Lakes Estate, a former summer camp that was converted into an event space in Port Jervis, N.Y. The only available date that worked for the couple was the third anniversary of the attack on the U.S. Capitol. "We decided we would rebrand Jan. 6," Mr. Radnor said.
Since their relationship started at a sound meditation ceremony, they planned for the wedding weekend to reflect the concept of "set and setting," which, in the psychedelic context, refers to the interaction between one's emotional and mental state and the physical environment.
The night before the wedding, there was a dinner with decorative mushrooms integrated into the centerpieces and at least one speech that referenced Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung. (There were seven therapists in attendance from just Dr. Jacobs's family.) Guests wrote their intentions on cards and tossed them into a fire.
Mr. Radnor strummed his guitar -- the only other sound was the crackle of burning wood -- as he sang lyrics he wrote for his bride: "One day this'll all be gone, what remains will be the songs I sang to you."
On the morning of the wedding, there was yoga and then a (drugless) sound meditation. And then -- in the couple's most significant attempt to stimulate the senses -- the ceremony was called to take place outside in the bracing cold at dusk.
Not even a snowstorm, which had been predicted by meteorologists for days, could thwart the couple's intentions. So their guests bundled up and headed into the evening storm.
The couple said they had miscalculated in thinking that the heavy snow would start later than it did. "The snow was two things," Mr. Radnor said. "Cold and anxiety-producing, but also cosmic and divine."
Neither slippery driving conditions nor ice chunks accumulating on hairdos and beards could keep their guests away. "We're like the post office," said Alyson Hannigan, one of the groom's "How I Met Your Mother" co-stars.
Pamela Fryman, the sitcom's director, had one request. "When they renew their vows," she said, "maybe they can do it in the spring."
In a blitz of large, shimmering snowflakes, the bride, groom, their siblings and their parents managed to stride down the aisle without falling.
The bride promised to give her groom space. "My first vow is freedom, which also means we are free to stay, or -- if this relationship ever evolves in such a way that it is no longer serving our highest good -- we are free to go," she told him. "We know it is choice, not obligation, that makes us want to remain exactly where we are."
The groom cried as he pledged himself. "I look into the infinity of your green eyes, I know that my not having gotten married until now was not due to some brokenness in me," he said. "The truth is, I didn't get married until now because," he added, "I was waiting for you."
The ceremony included Jewish wedding traditions and was led by Jacob Azia, a friend of the couple who is a Universal Life Church minister.
As the guests thawed around a large indoor fireplace, the newlyweds peeled off so that the bride's snow-drenched hair could be restyled as the groom, in his first official act as a husband, knelt at her feet and warmed them with a blow-dryer.
Back in the candlelit lodge, the reception unfolded. Nine friends and relatives gave speeches as the snow continued to fall, and as those who were not among the 115 guests planning to stay in cabins at the venue overnight checked and rechecked the weather and traffic apps on their phones.
Dr. Jacobs and Mr. Radnor tried to focus on the speeches and let the wedding planner and venue staff handle the logistics. "But energetically, in the room, we could feel the stress," Dr. Jacobs said.
Around 10:30 p.m., a member of the venue staff made an announcement: The roads were not passable and everyone would need to spend the night. This included guests, the 10 members of the wedding band, the event planners, the venue staff members and a reporter and a photographer from The New York Times, a total of 59 extra people.
Some were assigned top bunks in rooms that the couple's friends had rented for the weekend, while others slept at the venue owner's on-site residence.
"Once it was announced, 'No one is leaving here tonight,' people went into a little bit of surrender mode," Mr. Radnor said. The band began to play the Beatles song "Oh! Darling" and the newlyweds danced with abandon.
"It was about as analogous to a psychedelic ceremony as you can get," Dr. Jacobs said.
On This Day
When Jan. 6, 2024
Where Cedar Lakes Estate, Port Jervis, N.Y.
The Eve of the Night Before Two nights before the wedding, Mr. Radnor and Dr. Jacobs dined alone in a heated glass igloo with views on the wedding venue's property. Dr. Jacobs surprised Mr. Radnor with a collection of their voice memos from when they were dating. "It was so special to hear these earlier versions of ourselves getting to know each other," he said. "And then to look across the table and realize where we were -- moments away from being married."
Wedding Swag Guests received welcome bags containing incense sticks, an incense dish, CBD tincture and an "intention kit" with paper and a pen. "We find that setting an intention can be a helpful way to drop in and calibrate your internal compass to true north," the instructions read.
Man's Best Man Nelson the Dog, the couple's labradoodle, served as an honorary groomsman (wearing a burgundy bow tie) and was walked down the aisle by Seth Jacobs, one of Dr. Jacobs's brothers.
Photograph Josh Radnor, the star of the show "How I Met Your Mother," and Jordana Jacobs, a psychologist based in Brooklyn, braved the elements at their Jan. 6 wedding in Port Jervis, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAUREN LANCASTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Weddings; Rites & ceremonies; Marriage; Personal profiles; Meditation; Television programs; Consciousness; Heart; Psychologists

Location: New York; United States--US; Nashville Tennessee; Ohio; Los Angeles California

People: Radnor, Josh

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/19/style/josh-radnor-wedding.html

Title: How He Met His Wife? Well, It Was a Real Trip.:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 21, 2024

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916782935

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-he-met-his-wife-well-was-real-trip/docview/2916782935/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

International Journey Strengthens a Family's Bond: [Style Desk]

Author: Yoon, Susan

Publication info: Yoon, Susan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/international-journey-strengthens-familys-bond/docview/2913829440/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Korea was my parents' country. They wouldn't need me there as they did in Canada ... right?
I was sitting in between my parents on a 15-hour direct flight from Toronto to Seoul.
I was going to Seoul to work on a book project. My Airbnb had enough room for us all. So when my parents brought it up as a half-joke that they would come, too, I didn't think it was unreasonable. Until the trip neared, that is. Seven weeks? Together?
"I'm nervous about going with my parents," I said repeatedly to my friends. "Manage their expectations," they advised me.
"Don't forget I'm going to work," I told my parents.
"Oh don't worry," my father said. "We're going to do our own thing."
"You think we want to spend our whole time with you?" my mother added, laughing.
That was the one thing that put me at ease: our shared understanding that in Korea, my parents could be as independent as they wanted, without any language or cultural barriers.
Korea was their country. They wouldn't need me there as they did in Canada.
I was 10 when we immigrated. Immigrant children know that the real culture shock in a new country is the way your parents come to depend on you to navigate the world that once belonged to them. My siblings and I had no choice but to embrace the change: We learned a new language, started to eat a lot of cheese and got new English names.
As the plane began to accelerate down the runway, my father smiled widely. "Wow, this is it!" he said. "We're going to Korea." They had been just a few years earlier, but I hadn't been back in more than 25 years.
We slept, hunched over our economy seat trays. When we landed, it was pouring rain.
In the haze of jet lag the next morning, my mother announced that the first thing they wanted to do was visit my paternal grandma's grave. We had talked about visiting a few relatives, but going to Grandma's grave had never come up, and it irked me. It was starting: family obligations usurping my time.
"Let's go and say hello," my father said.
"You guys go," I said. "I don't need to go."
The first week was rough. We were upside down with the time change, and I was annoyed by their constant parenting. But soon we settled into a routine, spending the day separately and reuniting for dinner.
During one of those dinners, my parents let it slip that they didn't know how to navigate Seoul's massive transportation system. I didn't understand. If they could speak and read Korean, why couldn't they figure it out?
I downloaded Naver Map on my father's phone. "These are all your options for getting there," I said. "See?"
"OK, I got it," my father said.
It wasn't until a few days later that I discovered he hadn't gotten it, that he and my mother had been navigating the city on archival memory -- taking the bus toward directions and not actual locations.
I showed my father again. "This dot is you, and this is where you're going. If you turn, the dot turns with you."
The next morning I saw him in the small street outside our Airbnb with his phone nestled in his hand, practicing.
I updated my friends through Instagram stories. "How is it being among your people?" one friend messaged me. "LOL, are these my people?" I replied, the "LOL" hiding my irritation. Korea was my parents' country, and Koreans their people. But the question lingered. Who were my people?
Two weeks into the trip, my mother declared that they were going to Grandma's grave the next day. "Without you," she said. I hadn't realized they hadn't gone yet. Looking forward to a day alone at the house, I told them that it was a great idea.
But the next day they decided not to go. Grandma's grave is in Paju, near the North Korean border, and the bus route was too complicated. "Maybe it's OK not to go this time," my mother told my father at breakfast. "She'll understand." My father nodded. I drank my Nespresso, saying nothing.
While my father showered, my mother took me aside. "He's not going to tell you, but your dad would really like it if you came to Grandma's grave."
"Why?" I asked. "Remember we said we were going to do our own things?"
"He wants to show her how well you grew up. He wants to show you off."
I laughed, but I was deeply moved. I decided to ditch my day of work and accompany them.
"We need flowers," my father said as we approached the graveyard. We assumed there would be a flower vendor near the entrance.
There wasn't.
I gathered some brightly colored wildflowers from the perimeter of the parking lot and tied them together with a long piece of grass. It reminded me of my sister and the clover necklaces we used to make as children.
My parents got busy weeding around the granite headstone, which had a combination of Hangul and Hanja, on the front and the back. "Your name is on the back," my father said. "See here?" I looked, and there was my Korean name carved beside those of my siblings and cousins. It felt odd to see our names on the headstone -- all of us, the living and dead, connected.
"Take a picture," my father said as he and my mother flanked the grave. Looking at my parents' faces through the lens of my iPhone, I felt a sudden wave of tenderness.
In the seven weeks we were in Korea, my parents and I managed to see all of our relatives, even my uncle in Chuncheon, the last city we lived in before we came to Canada. My uncle drove us down memory lane to our old apartment. It looked abandoned. My father and I walked quickly through the apartment complex, trying to reconcile our memory of the past with the present.
Back in Seoul, my mother noted that the apartment in Chuncheon was the last place Grandma lived. I had forgotten, but as soon as she said it, I remembered: Grandma's room was right next to the entrance. Every time I walked in after school, she would knock from the inside with her cane and ask, "Who is it?"
"It's Sun-kyeong," I would say. I'd open the door and see her sitting on the floor, her cane directing me to some kind of task. "Go pick the dandelion leaves from outside," she said once, pointing to the window. I remembered the day I came home from school and no one knocked and asked who I was. And through the half opened door, I saw that her room was empty.
Before we knew it, the trip was over. Back home in Toronto, my friends asked how Korea was. "Amazing," I answered each time. If they asked why, I didn't quite know how to explain it.
"Was the food good?" they asked. But it wasn't that.
"Did you get work done?" they wondered. It wasn't that either.
I didn't know how to tell them that the trip was amazing because of my mother and father. That I realized how I was a part of them, and they were a part of me. That we don't belong to languages or countries. That one day when my father and I took a cab home from a baseball game, I heard the driver say to him, "Oh, you're a foreigner?" And my father responded, "Yes, from Canada." And I couldn't unhear it.
I didn't know how to tell my friends that when we are in Canada, we are from Korea, and when we are in Korea, we are from Canada. We are always from somewhere else.
One day near the end of our trip, my parents and I went to Insadong and my father split off to do his own thing. I texted him the location where he should meet me and my mother. Then, I called him, just to make sure.
"Do you know how to get here?" I asked.
"Yes," he said. "Don't worry."
When he met us exactly where he was supposed to, I was so proud that I had to look away.
My Grandma died only four months before we moved to Canada. We had been accepted for permanent residency but she was too frail to make the trip. My parents didn't know what to do and didn't tell her that we were moving.
But she knew.
"Tell your parents, don't forget to take me," she told me and my siblings over and over. "Don't forget to take me."
I hope she knows that I won't forget. That we did take her. That maybe all we have is each other.
Susan Yoon is a children's book writer and author of "Waiting for Tomorrow." She lives in Toronto.
Modern Love can be reached at modernlove@nytimes.com.
To find previous Modern Love essays, Tiny Love Stories and podcast episodes, visit our archive.
Want more from Modern Love? Watch the TV series; sign up for the newsletter; or listen to the podcast on iTunes, Spotify or Google Play. We also have swag at the NYT Store and two books, "Modern Love: True Stories of Love, Loss, and Redemption" and "Tiny Love Stories: True Tales of Love in 100 Words or Less."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST5.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Families & family life; Siblings; Books

Location: Canada

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/12/style/modern-love-korea-sharing-airbnb-with-parents.html

Title: International Journey Strengthens a Family's Bond:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 14, 2024

column: Modern Love

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2913829440

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/international-journey-strengthens-familys-bond/docview/2913829440/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Fight at Columbia's School of Social Work: [Letter]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fight-at-columbias-school-social-work/docview/2905451849/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To the Editor:
Re "What Is Happening at the Columbia School of Social Work?," by Pamela Paul (column, Dec. 18):
I am outraged by Ms. Paul's column. I don't know what is happening at the Columbia School of Social Work, but if engagement around issues of social justice and racism were entering the curriculum only in recent years, it would be a very unusual social work school.
The equally renowned Smith College School for Social Work, from which I received an M.S.W. 32 years ago, identified itself as an "anti-racist institution" shortly after my cohort graduated, and a critical understanding of race and racism is central to everything that is taught (and hopefully learned) there. It's hard to imagine that Columbia is lagging far behind.
My experience has been that -- contrary to the stereotypes that abound in Ms. Paul's essay -- social workers at our best are compassionate, brave and radical, alert to the oppressive conditions that harm our clients and our communities and active in working to change those conditions.
The National Association of Social Workers' Code of Ethics identifies social justice as a core value of our profession and one of our fundamental ethical principles: "Social workers challenge social injustice. Social workers pursue social change, particularly with and on behalf of vulnerable and oppressed individuals and groups of people. These activities seek to promote sensitivity to and knowledge about oppression and cultural and ethnic diversity."
While Ms. Paul may be correct that many Columbia M.S.W. graduates eventually enter private practice, that is probably not the most effective way to repay school loans. That goal may be better served by working in the public or nonprofit sectors, where the employing agency may help repay the loans or the loans may eventually be forgiven.
Victoria Rhodin
Montpelier, Vt.
To the Editor:
I graduated from Columbia's School of Social Work in 2010. Columbia had not yet devolved into the bastion of thoughtless ideology that it is today, but it was already on its way when I left there.
Since then, many in the field of psychotherapy and psychoanalysis, including some training institutes, have gone in the same direction, fracturing the focus on our common humanity into a million tiny, reactionary pieces.
Constance Morrill
New York
To the Editor:
I graduated from the Columbia School of Social Work in 1966 and am still working today.
I was shocked and enormously saddened after reading Pamela Paul's description of what had formerly been my special place. I have always credited the Columbia School of Social Work with its emphasis on tolerance, empathy and inclusiveness as responsible for my long, rewarding career in which I have been able to understand and enhance the lives of people of all ages, races and backgrounds.
I am painfully aware that the current divisive atmosphere in the school will neither help students create meaningful, satisfying work nor improve the challenging world that we live in today.
Barbara Bessin Zucker
New York
To the Editor:
Pamela Paul expresses concerns about an ideological shift in social work education, suggesting that an increased focus on social justice might negatively affect mental health care provided by social workers.
As a social worker and an educator, I find it crucial to address these assertions. Not all social work graduates pursue mental health practice; many contribute to nonprofits, mutual aid groups and government agencies, all benefiting from a foundation in social justice and community awareness.
Ms. Paul oversimplifies the connection between school curriculum and direct clinical practice, overlooking state regulations and the extensive clinical training and supervision required for full licensure for social workers on that path.
Christopher Ferraris
New York
The writer is an adjunct lecturer at the Columbia School of Social Work. His views are his own.
Rooming Houses as a Solution to Homelessness
To the Editor:
Re "The Old New Way to Provide Cheap Housing," by Nicholas Kristof (column, Dec. 10):
I was pleased to read Mr. Kristof's column about the positive effect that single-room occupancy (S.R.O.) housing can have on communities struggling with increased homelessness. I agree that "there's no one answer to America's housing crisis" and that local governments have a role to play. Anyone who works in this space will tell you that the biggest impediment to getting housing for everyone is zoning.
Given today's housing and affordability crisis and the significant advances in privacy and security technology, a new, upgraded version of S.R.O.s called multi-tenant housing units (MTHU) offers all of the benefits for meeting today's housing challenges facing low-income residents without any of the security or privacy concerns of the past.
MTHUs have been adopted in Toronto. There are also forms of rooming houses in San Jose, Calif.; Houston; and the state of Massachusetts.
With proper regulations, MTHUs are one piece to solving the affordable-housing puzzle. Providing clean, safe and affordable housing for individuals earning as little as $ 18,000 annually is a good thing, and cities would be wise to take a look at this model.
Kurt Jetta
Delray Beach, Fla.
The writer is president of the Florida Housing Innovations Council.
To the Editor:
Nicholas Kristof hits on one of the perfectly viable solutions to homelessness. The boardinghouse or Airbnb model could go a long way toward putting roofs over people's heads. One needs only a room and a shared kitchen and bathroom to feel safe, warm and sheltered.
I know. I moved to Switzerland in 2020 and used Airbnbs and other types of room rentals for two years before finding my own apartment. These accommodations were not only perfectly suitable and affordable but also fun. I made friends of hosts and other residents and, really, sharing a stove and a bathroom is no hardship.
One of my hosts was a pastry guru, and coming into the kitchen to a fresh fruit pie with a "Help yourself, Sue" note on the counter was a perk I'll never forget. A boardinghouse needn't be forever; further affordable-housing models are needed for long-term solutions. But as a transition, it's a fantastic option.
Susan Wunder
Therwil, Switzerland
My Family's Story
To the Editor:
I am a first-generation American. My mother fled Nazi Germany in 1936 with her mother, father and brother. My father fled in 1939, alone and very late in the terrors the Nazis were inflicting on German Jews.
My father had passed the German law bar and was taking postgraduate courses to enter the German diplomatic corps. When he fled to the U.S. his German law degree was useless. So he started sweeping floors in a factory and worked his way up to sorting bolts of cloth in the factory.
Eventually he was able to go back to college at night in the U.S., after marrying and having me as a toddler at home. He got his bachelor's degree in economics.
When I asked him why he didn't pursue a law degree here as he had in Germany, he said, "If I ever had to flee this country I didn't want to have another useless law degree."
I said, "Dad, you'd never have to flee the U.S.!"
And he replied, "That's what I thought in Germany."
Jeff Lynn
Burlington, N.C.
This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Social justice; Racism; Oppression; Social workers; Boarding houses; Mental health; Social work; Privacy; Core curriculum; Affordable housing

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing

Location: Switzerland; New York; United States--US; Germany

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/24/opinion/letters/columbia-school-of-social-work.html

Title: A Fight at Columbia's School of Social Work:   [Letter ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 25, 2023

column: Ters

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Letter

ProQuest document ID: 2905451849

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fight-at-columbias-school-social-work/docview/2905451849/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tips Every Traveler Needs to Remember: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kugel, Seth

Publication info: Kugel, Seth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tips-every-traveler-needs-remember/docview/2905451829/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Our columnist begs you to avoid middlemen, get promises in writing and stop expecting perfection in an imperfect world.
Dear Travelers,
Seth here -- writing to you to gripe this time, rather than the other way around. The Tripped Up column helps travelers with problems they encounter (and sometimes even wrangles refunds), but no matter how much great advice I give, readers keep making the same mistakes! It's almost as if you prioritize your families, jobs and health over memorizing my suggestions.
So instead of using my last column of the year to get one specific traveler out of a jam, I've decided to rehash the crucial lessons I've learned -- and hopefully help a few travelers along the way.
Based on nearly 2,000 reader submissions (so far) in 2023, here are my top six guidelines for minimizing travel trouble in 2024. Seth, Queens, N.Y.
Avoid online travel agencies (mostly)
I get so many complaints about huge O.T.A.'s like Expedia and Booking.com that I'll have to spin the wheel to find someone to help. OK, let's take John of New Port Richey, Fla. Last February, he found a British Airways flight for four passengers from Tampa, Fla., to Venice, Italy, on Priceline. He tried to book twice, with different credit cards, but both times was told his purchase was unsuccessful.
Surprise! He was charged twice anyway, for a total of $ 15,153, and never got even one reservation code from either Priceline or the airline.
He went to Priceline, as he should have, but after what he said were hours of phone calls and several emails, he gave up and contacted British Airways directly. They responded as most companies would: He had to go through the company from which he had made the purchase.
Finally, Priceline said it would refund his cards, but over two billing cycles. Not willing to trust the company, he requested chargebacks from his credit card issuers. That worked for a week, but British Airways recharged him $ 1,894. It was only when he spotted one of those six-character locator codes on that document that he realized there had indeed been a reservation.
When I contacted Christina Bennett, a spokeswoman for Priceline, she apologized and wrote that the company was "disappointed" to hear about the customer's experience and issued a refund. It has also identified and corrected a technical issue that "improperly rejected the reservation but processed the charge."
All it took was 10 months!
"This is clearly not the experience we would want for anyone using our platform," she continued.
But as my inbox shows, dealing with one travel company's customer service is hard -- and having multiple companies interact is harder. My advice: Use the big middlemen (Expedia and Booking.com, but also Hotels.com, TripAdvisor and the like) to find your deal. But unless you have an excellent reason to do otherwise -- significant savings on package deals, one-click booking of complex itineraries, your wife is C.E.O. -- take a few extra minutes to open a new tab and book direct with the actual service provider.
Beware other intermediaries, too
Large O.T.A.s are not the only middlemen to avoid, when you can. Generally speaking, the fewer companies involved in your travel planning, the better off you'll be when something goes awry. Those include smaller agencies like consolidators (who often sell airfares not openly available on the internet), vacation rental agencies like Vrbo and Airbnb, credit card platforms like Chase Travel and even code share flights when you book with one airline and fly on another.
Andrea of Morgantown, W. Va., bought three tickets to Dublin on Aer Lingus for July through a consolidator called Skywithclass, which offers unlisted business class deals. Her family had to cancel when her husband broke some ribs in May. Thanks to an add-on trip cancellation plan that covered injuries, she was owed a refund of $ 11,364. Months of efforts to get Skywithclass to get Aer Lingus to return her money had hit a dead end. (And, predictably, when she contacted the airline directly, they sent her back to Skywithclass.)
The product director of Skywithclass, Anna Maxim, wrote in an email that the company was "terribly sorry" for the lack of reimbursement, but noted Aer Lingus had made it very difficult, claiming it is "not the most responsive airline." I agree -- they have ignored me in the past, too. But in this situation, they did respond, saying "we fell short on this occasion," and then approved the refund, which they sent -- through the agency -- back to Andrea.
Jennifer of Irvine, Calif., wrote in when her American Airlines-operated, British Airways-issued flight between Boston and New York was canceled, forcing her to take a $ 219 train to catch her connecting flight to Paris. At one point, American told her to go to British Airways; at another exchange, British Airways said to go to American.
Spokeswomen for both British Airways and American confirmed to me that the issuer is responsible in such a case, and noted that Jennifer had received an $ 18 refund, the value their system applied to that leg of the four-leg, $ 1,159 itinerary. But she hadn't even noticed -- and when she saw it, was unsatisfied with the amount, which on a good day might get you from Boston to New York on a bus that stops in Hartford. (A spokeswoman for American Airlines noted that more than half the $ 1,159 was for taxes, which are not refundable.)
Give yourself a time cushion
Alex of Los Angeles wrote about the time he was to fly from Nairobi, Kenya, to Boston, with a nearly 18-hour layover in London, during which he scheduled business meetings. In Nairobi, Alex arrived at the airport only to find Kenya Airways had no record of his reservation, which was booked through Delta using the Chase Travel platform. Uh-oh, middlemen. But those companies reacted admirably to the error, booking him on a different route that got him to Boston only about an hour late. But he has repeatedly requested "compensatory 'good will' points for missing the meetings."
A spokeswoman from Chase said the flight was booked correctly on their end, but is still considering his request for compensation. (Neither of the two airlines responded to me.)
I'd be just fine if they declined. Scheduling anything of even middling importance so tightly in today's air travel environment is folly.
You really need to leave a 24-hour cushion for anything important, and make it 48 for a once-in-a-lifetime event like a big wedding or cruise departure or Super Bowl kickoff. In the United States alone, 88,419 flights were canceled in the first three quarters of 2023. And no airline will reimburse you for football tickets you couldn't use or the emotional damage from missing your sister's wedding, no matter how outraged a message you send to them.
If you suspect airlines secretly don't feel bad about changing or canceling your reservation, you're wrong: It's no secret. Qantas caused a stir in October when, in a filing in Australian federal court, it argued a reservation is not for "a particular flight."
"To the contrary," the filing said, "the 'service' that Qantas relevantly offers is a bundle of contractual rights, which are consistent with Qantas' promise to do its best to get consumers where they want to be on time."
Write an email
When I fall behind on the Tripped Up inbox and respond to someone who wrote in a month or two earlier, they often no longer need my help, having solved the problem by pushing to speak to supervisors or simply waiting for the creaky system to work.
Their best method for success, it seems, is to communicate via polite, concise email queries rather than phone calls or online chat or web forms. Those customer service email addresses are sometimes harder to find, but that means they may receive faster attention or better service. Plus, they make for a clean, written record you can forward two weeks later if you don't hear back.
And if you don't, aim higher. When Amy from St. Paul, Minn., wrote to me asking for help with a $ 1,172 credit from United Airlines that was proving impossible to use, I suggested she use elliott.org/company-contacts, a site run by Elliott Advocacy, a nonprofit that does Tripped Up-like work and provides contact information for travel providers. She told me she wrote to a customer care executive at United and heard back the same day with a solution. "Magic!" she said.
If emails sent directly to your service provider fail, what could work are complaints to your credit card issuer, the Better Business Bureau, your state's attorney general (or department of insurance for insurance-related cases) and the federal Transportation Department (for flights).
Be sure you are right
Passengers often write to me outraged, with complaints that an airline canceled their entire itinerary just because they missed one leg. Yet, that's a widespread, well-documented rule. No fair? I absolutely agree, but can do nothing except tell you to (please) write to your member of Congress.
People also often decline to get travel insurance because they think that if they get sick they can just submit a doctor's note and the airline or cruise line or hotel will refund them. But this is not grade school, and although companies do sometimes make exceptions, you can't count on it. Tong of Sebastopol, Calif., wrote to me that when his wife, Elizabeth, fell ill with Covid-19 during a trip to Italy in October, easyJet would not refund them $ 390 for an unused Naples to Palermo flight. At peak pandemic, that might have worked. Not anymore.
Finally, maybe you just screwed up. When a retired professor tried to check in for a return trip in London back to his home to Austin, Texas, the airline told him he hadn't flown the outbound portion to London. He was at wits' end trying to convince the airline he had indeed flown -- they had even checked his bag on the first flight and he had the receipt.
But it turns out he had somehow booked two round-trip flights with similar itineraries, used one for the outbound flight, and then tried to use the other for his return flight, which the airline had rightfully canceled. So he did have a valid ticket to get home -- just two days later on a different flight. In theory, a top-notch customer service agent might have figured this out, but in this case the second reservation was booked via code-share on a partner airline. Middlemen!
Pack patience
Travelers often write to me with complaints that smack of self-centeredness at best, privilege at worst. One memorable note came from a couple who was in Marrakech, Morocco, during the September earthquake that killed nearly 2,900. They had booked a tour package through a middleman and were disappointed that the local tour guides didn't do more to restructure their itinerary accordingly. Someone else was outraged they could not get a refund from their vacation rental in Maui after the fires in August. Did they consider that the homeowner -- the one who really had their money, which was long gone from Vrbo -- could be in far worse shape than they were? These cases are decided by the small print, and the only way to avoid that is to purchase travel insurance.
So a final note as you plan for 2024: Vacations are not automobiles, mass-produced in factories with some form of quality control, and returnable for a refund or replacement if they arrive in less than perfect condition. Vacations are complex, emotional adventures that take place in the real world, with its unpredictable weather, chaotic geopolitics and cultural complexities.
Anyone looking for a perfect, stress-free experience should skip the river cruise or backpacking trip or destination wedding and simply book your couch for a day of naps and streaming services. Just be sure to reserve directly with your family.
If you need advice about a best-laid travel plan that went awry, send an email to TrippedUp@nytimes.com.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Customer services; Books; Electronic mail systems; Travel; Travel agencies; Air travel; Air fares; Credit cards; Airlines

Business indexing term: Subject: Customer services Travel agencies Air fares Credit cards Airlines

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: British Airways PLC; NAICS: 481111; Name: American Airlines Inc; NAICS: 481111; Name: Booking.com BV; NAICS: 561599; Name: Expedia Inc; NAICS: 561599; Name: Qantas Airways Ltd; NAICS: 481111; Name: Aer Lingus Group PLC; NAICS: 481111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/21/travel/travel-mistakes-tips.html

Title: Tips Every Traveler Needs to Remember:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 25, 2023

column: Tripped Up

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2905451829

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tips-every-traveler-needs-remember/docview/2905451829/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

College Football Sacks Housing Markets Nationwide: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Salerno, Allison

Publication info: Salerno, Allison. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/college-football-sacks-housing-markets-nationwide/docview/2905279110/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Short-term rentals are taking over college towns, fueled by wealthy fans and investors who turn homes into hotels for a few weeks out of the year.
Rashe Malcolm loves her son Wayne and his girlfriend, but she'd also love it if they could move out of the three-bedroom home in Athens, Ga., that she shares with the couple, both 23, as well as her husband and two of her three other children.
But the rent is too high for anyone to go anywhere, at least locally.
"If you go to these newer units, I mean if you can get one for $ 1,800, that's considered cheap," said Ms. Malcolm, 48. "For a one-bedroom -- a one-bedroom. It's like $ 2,100 on average."
Life in Athens, a city of about 127,000 residents, centers on its largest employer: the flagship campus of the University of Georgia, which enrolls more than 40,000 students and employs about 10,000 people. Like many U.S. cities, it has seen rents rise over the past few years, even as developers have added new units to the market. Much of the construction is luxury off-campus housing for the growing student population.
But Ms. Malcolm believes that the rent issue in Athens has more to do with football.
The Georgia Bulldogs -- the two-time defending national champions -- draw some 90,000 spectators to Sanford Stadium for six or seven home games every fall, essentially creating an alternate market for short-term rentals that lasts about three months. Real estate investors are buying and building homes for fans who will pay hundreds or even thousands of dollars on a weekend of housing for a home game, and the effects are impacting local residents all year long. According to AirDNA, which tracks the performance data of Airbnb and VRBO vacation rentals, there are currently 1,135 short-term rentals available in Athens -- up from 865 in November 2022 -- with 88 percent of them comprising an entire private home.
Ms. Malcolm, who lives on the west side of Athens, runs a nonprofit called Farm to Neighborhood and a food truck and catering company, Rashe's Cuisine, on the city's east side, not far from Sanford Stadium. "It is a historically Black area," she said, "so when football games happen, you do start to see more non-Black people coming through the neighborhood and walking over to the liquor store to get beer to go back to their rental."
Athens is no outlier. Around the United States, in small cities reliant on college sports to keep their economies humming, short-term rentals are destabilizing housing markets, fueled by wealthy fans and investors who transform single-family homes into de facto hotels for a few weeks out of the year, and often leave them sitting empty the rest of the time.
"College athletics, in particular college football, have become so enormous in this country, particularly in the Southeast, that it has caused this phenomenon of short-term rentals," said Adrien Bouchet, director of the DeVos Sport Business Management Program at the University of Central Florida. "On one hand it creates value, but on the other hand, it definitely hurts people that have lived in and around the university for a long time."
Mr. Bouchet pointed to similar market trends in Southern college towns like Auburn, Ala., Tuscaloosa, Ala., Gainesville, Fla., and Oxford, Miss., where football rules the economy during the fall. Over the past year, the supply of short-term rentals has grown 34 percent in Tuscaloosa (home to the University of Alabama), 33 percent in Columbia, Mo. (University of Missouri), and 11 percent in South Bend, Ind. (University of Notre Dame), according to data from AirDNA. Bookings typically peak in November.
But it's not just the rental markets that are affected -- investors are overpaying for the houses they rent out, pulling sale prices out of reach for many locals.
"They have very wealthy alumni that have no problems buying second houses, whether that's for their kids to go there or whether that's just for them to have a good time seven or eight weekends a year," Mr. Bouchet said. "And that's caused the price of these houses to go through the roof and push people out of these neighborhoods."
Affordable-housing advocates say that without limits on where and how these rentals may operate, college football towns are helpless to prevent excessive increases in rents and home prices.
Marilyn Vickers, a retired clinical psychologist, raised three children in a house on a leafy cul-de-sac in Athens. For years, a neighbor's copse of sweet gums and oaks would filter the afternoon sun into her dining room. But this summer, after she returned from some traveling, she found the trees felled and a two-story pool house under construction close to her property line, part of a larger complex that now includes a renovated six-bedroom, five-bath ranch house. The Texas-based investors have yet to open their property to paying guests, but VRBO lists it as available to up to 16 people, with the first night, Feb. 1, set at $ 1,250.
Ms. Vickers, 78, who installed drapes to block the view, worries that the spate of short-term rentals in residentially zoned neighborhoods "is hollowing out the community."
In September, Athens-Clarke County imposed a temporary moratorium on future short-term rentals in single-family zoned districts, spurred not just by economics but by the increase in complaints involving noise and traffic congestion. The move was opposed by some local homeowners who rely on short-term rental income and do it responsibly. But critics say that regulations haven't gone far enough in a county with hundreds of homeless residents and an affordable-housing shortage.
"Right now, the housing market favors the investor over just the average human being, and we prioritize our freedom to speculate and invest and profit off of housing," said Joe Lavine, 28, a social worker who does outreach with homeless residents. He questioned why the moratorium doesn't include neighborhoods zoned for multifamily housing, which tend to be in poorer districts and have more people of color.
"If you put a moratorium on short-term rentals in single-family neighborhoods, then if an investor truly wants to buy and invest in short-term rentals in Athens, they're going to go to multifamily zoned neighborhoods," he said.
In South Bend, Ind., Constance Peterson-Miller and her husband, Christopher Miller, bought their Cape Cod-style house in 1993 for about $ 45,000 in the residential Harter Heights neighborhood, blocks from Notre Dame Stadium. Now they're nearly surrounded by short-term rentals -- two across the street, one next door, and one bordering their backyard. With so many investors scooping up homes, Harter Heights has been irrevocably changed.
"What we have are a lot of empty houses rented out occasionally, with all its attendant issues that are unaffordable or just not available to the new folks coming in," said Ms. Peterson-Miller, 64. "Houses are being purchased, flipped, and then they stand empty for sometimes weeks upon weeks. It appears they are let out for the space of a few weekends during the football season."
In Harter Heights, rents for one-bedroom apartments have risen 89 percent since 2013, according to data compiled by the federal Housing and Urban Development agency, dramatically outpacing the national average.
Officials in South Bend can do little to stop the surge. In 2018, Indiana's state legislature enacted a law prohibiting local governments, cities and counties from passing ordinances regarding short-term rentals, said Troy Warner, a city council member. Mr. Warner understands the power of market forces, but if he could improve that law, he said, he'd restrict the percentage of a neighborhood that can be used for short-term rentals. He'd also like the law to require property owners who rent their homes to give their contact information to local officials.
"Every time I've got an issue, I have to go through property records, and it's very hard to find out who owns these," said Mr. Warner, a South Bend native whose district includes Harter Heights.
Kip Tyner, the city council president in Tuscaloosa, Ala., has no problem with homeowners renting out rooms or even vacating their homes on football weekends for fans of the Crimson Tide. But investor-owned homes have no place in a residentially zoned neighborhood, he said.
"It's so hypocritical of us as a city because we don't allow a hair salon, we don't allow a tax preparer or whatever to be in a neighborhood because that's a business," Mr. Tyner said. "So you're going to allow short-term rental, which is definitely a business. People are making huge amounts of money in our neighborhoods, but they don't even live here."
The rush of investors turning private homes into short-term hotels is "absolutely" contributing to Tuscaloosa's affordable-housing shortage, said Ellen Potts, executive director of Habitat for Humanity of Tuscaloosa. "It ties up a lot of rental housing that would be for families," she said. A landlord friend of hers, she said, "is making so much more money than she used to, renting it for maybe $ 1,200 a month, when she's renting it for $ 2,000 or $ 3,000 a weekend."
In Columbia, Mo., planning officials, concerned about the reduction of units available for residents to rent or buy, have been laboring for years to tweak regulations on short-term rentals, said Patrick Zenner, development services manager for the City of Columbia.
The city has seen its supply of short-term rentals balloon to 463 this fall -- up 32 percent from last year. (Perhaps not coincidentally, the Missouri Tigers have gone from a middling program to a national powerhouse, currently ranked No. 9 in the country.)
"Commercialization of basically a residential neighborhood was something that was a concern," Mr. Zenner said. "And then, this tangential relationship between the removal of affordable housing and that being either rental or for purchase, as my planning commission likes to refer to as attainable housing."
In South Bend, Ms. Peterson-Miller, whose two children are grown, laments the changes to her neighborhood. "As we aged, it was a wonderful thing to be surrounded by these generations upon generations of children that grow up and then they move to another home," she said. "We looked after each other. We were multigenerational. We knew each other."
The bottom line, she said: "It's impacting how we form community and how we sustain all the goods of that community."
Photograph From top: the Georgia Bulldogs draw some 90,000 fans to home games in Athens, Ga.; Rashe Malcolm and her son Wayne Malcolm in Athens, near the nonprofit and food business she runs; Marilyn Vickers of Athens, where construction recently started on a development near her property; Christopher Miller and Constance Peterson-Miller standing outside their home in South Bend, Ind. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES; ABOVE AND BELOW, RINNE ALLEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; EVAN COBB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE7.

Subject: College football; Housing; Moratoriums; Houses; Rentals; Neighborhoods; College campuses; Cities; Homeowners; Housing prices; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Housing prices Hotels & motels

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/18/realestate/college-football-housing-market.html

Title: College Football Sacks Housing Markets Nationwide:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 24, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2905279110

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/college-football-sacks-housing-markets-nationwide/docview/2905279110/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 24, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Misleading Australians Costs Airbnb: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holpuch, Amanda

Publication info: Holpuch, Amanda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/misleading-australians-costs-airbnb/docview/2904051708/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Airbnb admitted in Australian court that it had made "false or misleading representations," charging customers in U.S. currency instead of Australian dollars.
An Australian court on Wednesday ordered Airbnb to pay a fine of 15 million Australian dollars for misleading customers by not clearly showing that prices for its property rentals were listed in U.S. dollars, instead of Australian dollars, which are worth less.
Airbnb admitted in the Federal Court of Australia that it had made "false or misleading representations" to about 63,000 customers who had used the accommodations-booking platform between January 2018 and August 2021.
In addition to the fine of 15 million Australian dollars (or about $ 10 million), Airbnb will provide up to another 15 million Australian dollars in compensation to the affected customers, who had made more than 70,000 bookings paid in U.S. dollars.
Gina Cass-Gottlieb, the chair of the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, a government regulatory agency, said in a statement that customers had reasonably assumed that the prices were in Australian dollars because "they were on Airbnb's Australian website, searching for accommodation in Australia and seeing a dollar sign.
"By paying in U.S. dollars, these consumers were charged more than they expected to pay, and were deprived of a chance to make an informed decision about whether to make the booking because of this misleading conduct regarding the price," the statement continued.
Airbnb will contact customers who are eligible for compensation by Feb. 5, 2024, according to the commission. The agency initiated proceedings against Airbnb in June 2022.
Susan Wheeldon, Airbnb's country manager for Australia and New Zealand, said in a statement that the company fixed how it showed currencies after the problem in Australia was raised.
"While only a very small percentage of Australian guests are believed to have been impacted, we are disappointed that this happened," Ms. Wheeldon said. "Airbnb would like to apologize to those guests."
About 2,088 customers complained to Airbnb customer support about being charged in U.S. dollars, according to the court ruling. Some were told by Airbnb customer support that they had chosen to see prices in U.S. currency, even though they had not, the ruling said.
Some of the customers had also been charged fees by their banks for paying in U.S. dollars, the ruling said.
Justice Brendan McElwaine of the Federal Court of Australia said in the ruling that the lack of clarity about the currency was "not the result of deliberate conduct, designed to intentionally mislead."
The Airbnb platform should have defaulted to Australian currency for people using it in Australia, the ruling said, but there were "bugs and/or edge cases" that caused the system to inaccurately identify some users as being located in the United States.
The court ruling said that Airbnb changed the platform in August 2021 to use the "USD" abbreviation when U.S. dollars are the applicable currency.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Currency; Prices; Customers; American dollar

Business indexing term: Subject: Currency Customers American dollar

Location: Australia; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/20/world/australia/airbnb-australia-fine-dollars.html

Title: Misleading Australians Costs Airbnb:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 21, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2904051708

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/misleading-australians-costs-airbnb/docview/2904051708/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Two's Not Enough Company? Have a 'Buddymoon.': [Society Desk]

Author: Rogg, Alyson

Publication info: Rogg, Alyson. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/twos-not-enough-company-have-buddymoon/docview/2899950969/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some newlyweds are seeking some rest and relaxation after the festivities -- with 25 of their nearest and dearest.
Ah, the honeymoon, traditionally imagined as a lavender haze of candlelit dinners for two, beds adorned with fragrant rose petals, and bungalows perched over crystal-clear waters. Romantic, sure, but for some newlyweds, so passé.
With many couples marrying older and often living together first, post-wedding travels have become more of an opportunity to discover a destination with friends, "as opposed to discovering one another," said Irene Levine, a psychologist and travel writer based in Pleasantville, N.Y.
Enter the buddymoon, a trend that's gaining visibility on Instagram and TikTok. Hannah Godwin, 28, and Dylan Barbour, 29, social media influencers who met on the TV show "Bachelor in Paradise," opted for a buddymoon after their wedding in Condécourt, France, in August. The couple, who have lived together since 2020, had already taken solo vacations. They considered their trip to the Greek island of Mykonos with 13 friends a rare opportunity.
For those also interested in a honeymoon with a little company, here is a starter guide to help you plan.
Where should we plan our buddymoon?
There are advantages to choosing a spot near your wedding. It could help you and your friends save on flights and even hotel costs, said Priya Malani, the chief executive and a founder of Stash Wealth, a millennial-focused financial planning service in New York City.
"Since we were already having a destination wedding, we thought, 'Well, if all of our closest friends are already in Europe, why not keep the party going?"' Ms. Godwin said.
Next, you'll need to decide what kind of trip you want to have: Do you want to lounge at the beach? Explore a city? Hike all day?
Victoria Mottola, 32, a pharmacist, and Manny Fente, 34, a lawyer, wanted a little bit of everything for their 25-person Mallorca, Spain, buddymoon in October. After their wedding in Toledo, Spain, the Miami-based couple picked the neighboring island because of its history and its access to bars, boats and beach clubs.
It was a different story for Kresson Taylor, 25, a Montessori teacher and content creator from Muskoka, Ontario, who planned her Nova Scotia and New Brunswick buddymoon with her husband, Casey Van Erp, 27, a carpenter, in September with six friends. "For us personally, it was really adventure based," she said. "Park, park, hike, mountain, no sleep."
Our friends are from different parts of our lives. How do we make it not awkward?
Just like marriage, communication is key. "Find a way for them to meet or talk ahead of time about what kind of expectations they have for this trip," said Jaime Kurtz, a psychology professor at James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va.
Dr. Kurtz recommended planning an event early in the trip "where there's room for trying something new," like wine tasting or cooking classes, which would help to create a shared experience for bonding.
We've broken the ice. Now what?
Leonidas Andreadis, the founder of Live & Travel Greece, recommended group activities like boat excursions, rafting or paintball. For a less physical outing, he suggested touring vineyards or bakeries or trying extra-large games like Giant Jenga.
What about accommodations?
Ms. Godwin and Mr. Barbour shared a house with their friends, providing them with valuable down time. "Some of my favorite parts were late at night, all just hanging out together at the house," she said.
Ms. Taylor and Mr. Van Erp also opted for a shared space via Airbnb, while Ms. Mottola and Mr. Fente were grateful to have some separation, with friends at three different hotels.
So who pays?
Couples should make sure they communicate this ahead of time. "It's important that everyone has some idea of what the costs will be and if any of them will be covered by the couple," Dr. Levine, the psychologist and travel writer, said.
For Ms. Godwin and Mr. Barbour, guests agreed to split the costs of everything from housing to dinners.
Ms. Malani had some tips to save money with a big group: "Secure bulk discounts," she said.
Is it rude if we request some alone time?
Not at all.
"Yes, you're there to travel with your friends," said Michael Bennett, a founder of Explorer X, a travel agency in Seattle. "But it's also going to be important to do some of your own things."
This sounds like a lot to plan.
Mr. Bennett suggested choosing maybe just one or two activities. "Nobody wants to come home and say 'I need a vacation from my vacation,"' he said.
Mr. Bennett emphasized having an outline for activities, but also noted that the best part of travel is often the "spontaneous experiences that happen along the way."
Ms. Mottola, who only planned two group activities across four days -- a dinner and a catamaran ride -- agreed. "Your friends will want to explore and relax on their own time," she said. "They're on vacation, too."
Her advice: Don't seek opinions. "I know this sounds harsh," she said, "but it can get complicated if 25 people are all putting their two cents in."
Photograph Hannah Godwin, center in the long black dress, and Dylan Barbour, in a button-down behind her, met on "Bachelor in Paradise." After marrying in France, they honeymooned in Mykonos with 13 friends. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNAH GODWIN, VIA INSTAGRAM) This article appeared in print on page ST21.

Subject: Weddings; Travel; Vacations; Influencer marketing; Psychologists

Business indexing term: Subject: Influencer marketing

Location: Spain; France; Mykonos

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/30/style/buddymoon-honeymoon-with-friends.html

Title: Two's Not Enough Company? Have a 'Buddymoon.':   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.21

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

column: Field Notes

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899950969

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/twos-not-enough-company-have-buddymoon/docview/2899950969/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Old New Way to Provide Cheap Housing: [Op-Ed]

Author: Kristof, Nicholas

Publication info: Kristof, Nicholas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/old-new-way-provide-cheap-housing/docview/2899938822/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Homelessness is an American tragedy, but it's not hopeless. In a recent column, I explored how Houston has become a national model by reducing homelessness by more than 60 percent.
One takeaway is that homelessness, above all, reflects a shortage of cheap housing. So I'm intrigued by an approach to providing such housing that's gaining ground around the country. It's an idea so old, it seems new: converting single-family houses to rooming houses.
Rooming houses, boardinghouses or single room occupancy (S.R.O.) hotels used to be ubiquitous. President Thomas Jefferson stayed in a boardinghouse for several months before moving into the White House. At the seedier end, S.R.O.s largely disappeared over the past half-century, partly because of zoning and economic development projects.
In Houston I dropped in on a home operated by PadSplit, a company that offers furnished bedrooms for working-class Americans. PadSplit, which is something like a long-term Airbnb for rooming houses, has housed 22,000 people so far and is growing fast.
The PadSplit model is to take a house that is near public transportation, convert the living room to a bedroom, put locks on each bedroom door and then rent out each room by the week. This typically means a shared bathroom and kitchen, and some tenants have complaints, but it's affordable for people who have few other options.
"It's reasonable!" said Gregory Walker, 46, a warehouse employee who takes home $ 2,300 a month.
He pays $ 150 a week, or a bit more than $ 600 a month, for a furnished bedroom in the PadSplit I visited. He shares it with six others in a middle-class neighborhood. Utilities and Wi-Fi are included in the rent.
Previously, Walker was stuck in a "sleazy hotel," as he put it, for $ 1,950 a month because he had a poor credit record that made it difficult to rent an apartment.
Rooming houses are quite different from the practice of young professionals having housemates in cities like New York and Boston. PadSplit rooms are often cheaper (partly because there aren't shared living areas), management is by a company rather than the residents, and payment is by the week to make it more workable for people living paycheck by paycheck. S.R.O.s were often squalid, but PadSplit is trying to elevate the experience.
PadSplit is the brainchild of an Atlanta real estate developer, Atticus LeBlanc, the company's chief executive. He studied architecture and urban studies at Yale but knew little of rooming houses. Then in 2009 he was renting out a home, and two men asked if they could rent individual rooms in it.
The men had only Social Security for income -- $ 685 per month for one man and $ 735 for the other -- and had been paying $ 100 a week for rooms in a decrepit house with no heating or air conditioning, but that home had been foreclosed on, and they needed to find somewhere else to live.
LeBlanc realized that if he rented rooms out at $ 100 a week, he could give people with low incomes comfortable accommodations and increase his income from the house.
"This was mind-blowing," LeBlanc told me.
He entered a competition for ideas to provide affordable housing and won foundation funding that allowed him to start PadSplit in 2017. It's a public benefit corporation, meaning that it is for profit but also aims to advance a social purpose.
Now operating in 18 cities, PadSplit provides an online platform for low-income workers to find furnished rooms offered by landlords. Sometimes the landlords rent out the entire house, room by room; others rent out just a room or two. PadSplit renters have an average age of 35 and earn a median of $ 30,000 per year.
The S.R.O. model addresses a mismatch between our housing stock and household size. Some 28 percent of American households consist of a single person living alone, yet fewer than 1 percent of housing units are studios. Many large houses can be used much more efficiently if they're converted to rooming houses.
PadSplit hasn't received direct public subsidies, and the model has room to scale up; census data suggests that there are tens of millions of bedrooms in America that no one sleeps in. This can provide low-cost housing more quickly and cheaply than public efforts to build housing: San Francisco has built some housing units for people who are homeless for more than $ 1 million each.
There's no one answer to America's housing crisis, but I'd like to see local governments experiment by rewarding landlords for creating basement flats, taking in boarders or creating rooming houses. A major impediment is local zoning regulations, which sometimes limit how many unrelated people can live together in a house.
I'm sure some readers will see this model as exploitative and think that people should have the right to their own home. Yes, that would be nice, but that sentiment doesn't actually get anyone housed. And while sharing a bathroom and kitchen isn't ideal, it's so much better than living in a car.
Millions of Americans working as teachers, firefighters or factory workers simply can't afford to rent apartments, or credit problems mean they can't get approved to rent. PadSplit takes people with eviction histories or weak credit but still makes it work with modern real estate management practices: It claims a 97.5 percent collection rate.
All this is a reminder that we used to have solutions to homelessness -- like S.R.O.s -- that we mostly eliminated half a century ago. This was a catastrophe of good intentions: We aimed to improve housing and neighborhoods and instead we got people sleeping in cars and on sidewalks.
***
I'm delighted to announce my annual win-a-trip contest to choose a university student to travel with me on an expense-paid reporting trip. Information is at nytimes.com/winatrip, and please pass the word to students you know.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page SR3.

Subject: Houses; Affordable housing; Homeless people; Boarding houses

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/09/opinion/homelessness-housing-shortage.html

Title: The Old New Way to Provide Cheap Housing:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

column: Nicholas Kristof

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2899938822

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/old-new-way-provide-cheap-housing/docview/2899938822/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

First, Bitter Defeat at OpenAI, And Then Tables Were Turned: [Series]

Author: Mickle, Tripp; Metz, Cade; Isaac, Mike; Weise, Karen

Publication info: Mickle, Tripp; Metz, Cade; Isaac, Mike; Weise, Karen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-bitter-defeat-at-openai-then-tables-were/docview/2899582839/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Around noon on Nov. 17, Sam Altman, the chief executive of OpenAI, logged into a video call from a luxury hotel in Las Vegas. He was in the city for its inaugural Formula 1 race, which had drawn 315,000 visitors including Rihanna and Kylie Minogue.
Mr. Altman, who had parlayed the success of OpenAI's ChatGPT chatbot into personal stardom beyond the tech world, had a meeting lined up that day with Ilya Sutskever, the chief scientist of the artificial intelligence start-up. But when the call started, Mr. Altman saw that Dr. Sutskever was not alone -- he was virtually flanked by OpenAI's three independent board members.
Instantly, Mr. Altman knew something was wrong.
Unbeknownst to Mr. Altman, Dr. Sutskever and the three board members had been whispering behind his back for months. They believed Mr. Altman had been dishonest and should no longer lead a company that was driving the A.I. race. On a hush-hush 15-minute video call the previous afternoon, the board members had voted one by one to push Mr. Altman out of OpenAI.
Now they were delivering the news. Shocked that he was being fired from a start-up he had helped found, Mr. Altman widened his eyes and then asked, "How can I help?" The board members urged him to support an interim chief executive. He assured them that he would.
Within hours, Mr. Altman changed his mind and declared war on OpenAI's board.
His ouster was the culmination of years of simmering tensions at OpenAI that pit those alarmed by A.I.'s power against others who saw the technology as a once-in-a-lifetime profit and prestige bonanza. As divisions deepened, the organization's leaders sniped and turned on one another. That led to a boardroom brawl that ultimately showed who has the upper hand in A.I.'s future development: Silicon Valley's tech elite and deep-pocketed corporate interests.
The drama embroiled Microsoft, which had committed $ 13 billion to OpenAI and weighed in to protect its investment. Many top Silicon Valley executives and investors, including the chief executive of Airbnb, also mobilized to support Mr. Altman.
Some fought back from Mr. Altman's $ 27 million mansion in San Francisco's Russian Hill neighborhood, lobbying through social media and voicing their displeasure in private text threads, according to interviews with more than 25 people with knowledge of the events. Many of their conversations and the details of their confrontations have not been previously reported.
At the center of the storm was Mr. Altman, a 38-year-old multimillionaire. A vegetarian who raises cattle and a tech leader with little engineering training, he is driven by a hunger for power more than by money, a longtime mentor said. And even as Mr. Altman became A.I.'s public face, charming heads of state with predictions of the technology's positive effects, he privately angered those who believed he ignored its potential dangers.
OpenAI's chaos has raised new questions about the people and companies behind the A.I. revolution. If the world's premier A.I. start-up can so easily plunge into crisis over backbiting behavior and slippery ideas of wrongdoing, can it be trusted to advance a technology that may have untold effects on billions of people?
"OpenAI's aura of invulnerability has been shaken," said Andrew Ng, a Stanford professor who helped found the A.I. labs at Google and the Chinese tech giant Baidu.
An Incendiary Mix
From the moment it was created in 2015, OpenAI was primed to combust.
The San Francisco lab was founded by Elon Musk, Mr. Altman, Dr. Sutskever and nine others. Its goal was to build A.I. systems to benefit all of humanity. Unlike most tech start-ups, it was established as a nonprofit with a board that was responsible for making sure it fulfilled that mission.
The board was stacked with people who had competing A.I. philosophies. On one side were those who worried about A.I.'s dangers, like Mr. Musk, who left OpenAI in a huff in 2018. On the other were Mr. Altman and those focused more on the technology's potential benefits.
In 2019, Mr. Altman -- who had extensive contacts in Silicon Valley as president of the start-up incubator Y Combinator -- became OpenAI's chief executive. He would own just a tiny stake in the start-up.
"Why is he working on something that won't make him richer? One answer is that lots of people do that once they have enough money, which Sam probably does," said Paul Graham, a founder of Y Combinator and Mr. Altman's mentor. "The other is that he likes power."
Mr. Altman quickly changed OpenAI's direction by creating a for-profit subsidiary and raising $ 1 billion from Microsoft, spurring questions about how that would work with the board's mission of safe A.I.
Earlier this year, departures shrank OpenAI's board to six people from nine. Three -- Mr. Altman, Dr. Sutskever and Greg Brockman, OpenAI's president -- were founders of the lab. The others were independent members.
Helen Toner, a director of strategy at Georgetown University's Center for Security and Emerging Technology, was part of the effective altruist community that believes A.I. could one day destroy humanity. Adam D'Angelo had long worked with A.I. as the chief executive of the question-and-answer website Quora. Tasha McCauley, an adjunct scientist at the RAND Corporation, had worked on tech and A.I. policy and governance issues and taught at Singularity University, which was named for the moment when machines can no longer be controlled by their creators.
They were united by a concern that A.I. could become more intelligent than humans.
Tensions Mount
After OpenAI introduced ChatGPT last year, the board became jumpier.
As millions of people used the chatbot to write love letters and brainstorm college essays, Mr. Altman embraced the spotlight. He appeared with Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief executive, at tech events. He met President Biden and embarked on a 21-city global tour, hobnobbing with leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India.
Yet as Mr. Altman raised OpenAI's profile, some board members worried that ChatGPT's success was antithetical to creating safe A.I., two people familiar with their thinking said.
Their concerns were compounded when they clashed with Mr. Altman in recent months over who should fill the board's three open seats.
In September, Mr. Altman met investors in the Middle East to discuss an A.I. chip project. The board was concerned that he wasn't sharing all his plans with it, three people familiar with the matter said.
Dr. Sutskever, 37, who helped pioneer modern A.I., was especially disgruntled. He had become fearful that the technology could wipe out humanity. He also believed that Mr. Altman was bad-mouthing the board to OpenAI executives, two people with knowledge of the situation said. Other employees have also complained to the board about Mr. Altman's behavior.
In October, Mr. Altman promoted another OpenAI researcher to the same level as Dr. Sutskever, who saw it as a slight. Dr. Sutskever told several board members that he might quit, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The board interpreted the move as an ultimatum to choose between him and Mr. Altman, the people said.
Dr. Sutskever's lawyer said it was "categorically false" that he had threatened to quit.
Another conflict erupted in October when Ms. Toner published a paper, "Decoding Intentions: Artificial Intelligence and Costly Signals," at her Georgetown think tank. In it, she and her co-authors praised Anthropic, an OpenAI rival, for delaying a product release and avoiding the "frantic corner-cutting that the release of ChatGPT appeared to spur."
Mr. Altman was displeased, especially since the Federal Trade Commission had begun investigating OpenAI's data collection. He called Ms. Toner, saying her paper "could cause problems."
The paper was merely academic, Ms. Toner said, offering to write an apology to OpenAI's board. Mr. Altman accepted. He later emailed OpenAI's executives, telling them that he had reprimanded Ms. Toner.
"I did not feel we're on the same page on the damage of all this," he wrote.
Mr. Altman called other board members and said Ms. McCauley wanted Ms. Toner removed from the board, people with knowledge of the conversations said. When board members later asked Ms. McCauley if that was true, she said that was "absolutely false."
"This significantly differs from Sam's recollection of these conversations," an OpenAI spokeswoman said, adding that the company was looking forward to an independent review of what transpired.
Some board members believed that Mr. Altman was trying to pit them against each other. Last month, they decided to act.
Dialing in from Washington, Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay Area, they voted on Nov. 16 to dismiss Mr. Altman. OpenAI's outside lawyer advised them to limit what they said publicly about the removal.
Fearing that if Mr. Altman got wind of their plan he would marshal his network against them, they acted quickly and secretly.
What Did Sam Do?
When news broke of Mr. Altman's firing on Nov. 17, a text landed in a private WhatsApp group of more than 100 chief executives of Silicon Valley companies, including Meta's Mark Zuckerberg and Dropbox's Drew Houston.
"Sam is out," the text said.
The thread immediately blew up with questions: What did Sam do?
That same query was being asked at Microsoft, OpenAI's biggest investor. As Mr. Altman was being fired, Kevin Scott, Microsoft's chief technology officer, got a call from Mira Murati, OpenAI's chief technology officer. She told him that in a matter of minutes, OpenAI's board would announce that it had canned Mr. Altman and that she was the interim chief.
Mr. Scott immediately asked someone at Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Wash., to get Mr. Nadella, the chief executive, out of a meeting he was having with top lieutenants. Shocked, Mr. Nadella called Ms. Murati about the OpenAI board's reasoning, three people with knowledge of the call said. In a statement, OpenAI's board had said only that Mr. Altman "was not consistently candid in his communications" with the board. Ms. Murati didn't have answers.
Mr. Nadella then phoned Mr. D'Angelo, OpenAI's lead independent director. What could Mr. Altman have done, Mr. Nadella asked, to cause the board to act so abruptly? Was there anything nefarious?
"No," Mr. D'Angelo replied, speaking in generalities. Mr. Nadella remained confused.
Turning the Tables
Shortly after Mr. Altman's removal from OpenAI, a friend reached out to him. It was Brian Chesky, Airbnb's chief executive.
Mr. Chesky asked Mr. Altman what he could do to help. Mr. Altman, who was still in Las Vegas, said he wanted to talk.
The two men had met in 2009 at Y Combinator. When they spoke on Nov. 17, Mr. Chesky peppered Mr. Altman with questions about why OpenAI's board had terminated him. Mr. Altman said he was as uncertain as everyone else.
At the same time, OpenAI's employees were demanding details. The board dialed into a call that afternoon to talk to about 15 OpenAI executives, who crowded into a conference room at the company's offices in a former mayonnaise factory in San Francisco's Mission neighborhood.
The board members said that Mr. Altman had lied to the board, but that they couldn't elaborate for legal reasons.
"This is a coup," one employee shouted.
Jason Kwon, OpenAI's chief strategy officer, accused the board of violating its fiduciary responsibilities. "It cannot be your duty to allow the company to die," he said, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting.
Ms. Toner replied, "The destruction of the company could be consistent with the board's mission."
OpenAI's executives insisted that the board resign that night or they would all leave. Mr. Brockman, 35, OpenAI's president, had already quit.
The support gave Mr. Altman ammunition. He flirted with creating a new start-up, but Mr. Chesky and Ron Conway, a Silicon Valley investor and friend, urged Mr. Altman to reconsider.
"You should be willing to fight back at least a little more," Mr. Chesky told him.
Mr. Altman decided to take back what he felt was his.
Pressuring the Board
After flying back from Las Vegas, Mr. Altman awoke on Nov. 18 in his San Francisco home, with sweeping views of Alcatraz Island. Just before 8 a.m., his phone rang. It was Mr. D'Angelo and Ms. McCauley.
The board members were rattled by the meeting with OpenAI executives the day before. Customers were considering shifting to rival platforms. Google was already trying to poach top talent, two people with knowledge of the efforts said.
Mr. D'Angelo and Ms. McCauley asked Mr. Altman to help stabilize the company.
That day, more than two dozen supporters showed up at Mr. Altman's house to lobby OpenAI's board to reinstate him. They set up laptops on his kitchen's white marble countertops and spread out across his living room. Ms. Murati joined them and told the board that she could no longer be interim chief executive.
To capitalize on the board's vulnerability, Mr. Altman posted on X: "i love openai employees so much." Ms. Murati and dozens of employees replied with emojis of colored hearts.
Yet even as the board considered bringing Mr. Altman back, it wanted concessions. That included bringing on new members who could control Mr. Altman. The board encouraged the addition of Bret Taylor, Twitter's former chairman, who quickly won everyone's approval and agreed to help the parties negotiate. As insurance, the board also sought another interim chief executive in case talks with Mr. Altman broke down.
By then, Mr. Altman had gathered more allies. Mr. Nadella, now confident that Mr. Altman was not guilty of malfeasance, threw Microsoft's weight behind him.
In a call with Mr. Altman that day, Mr. Nadella proposed another idea. What if Mr. Altman joined Microsoft? The $ 2.8 trillion company had the computing power for anything that he wanted to build.
Mr. Altman now had two options: negotiating a return to OpenAI on his terms or taking OpenAI's talent with him to Microsoft.
The Board Stands Firm
By Nov. 19, Mr. Altman was so confident that he would be reappointed chief executive that he and his allies gave the board a deadline: Resign by 10 a.m. or everyone would leave.
Mr. Altman went to OpenAI's office so he could be there when his return was announced. Mr. Brockman also showed up with his wife, Anna. (The couple had married at OpenAI's office in a 2019 ceremony officiated by Dr. Sutskever. The ring bearer was a robotic hand.)
To reach a deal, Ms. Toner, Ms. McCauley and Mr. D'Angelo logged into a day of meetings from their homes. They said they were open to Mr. Altman's return if they could agree on new board members.
Mr. Altman and his camp suggested Penny Pritzker, a secretary of commerce under President Barack Obama; Diane Greene, who founded the software company VMware; and others. But Mr. Altman and the board could not agree, and they bickered over whether he should rejoin OpenAI's board and whether a law firm should conduct a review of his leadership.
With no compromise in sight, board members told Ms. Murati that evening that they were naming Emmett Shear, a founder of Twitch, a video-streaming service owned by Amazon, as interim chief executive. Mr. Shear was outspoken about developing A.I. slowly and safely.
Mr. Altman left OpenAI's office in disbelief. "I'm going to Microsoft," he told Mr. Chesky and others.
That night, Mr. Shear visited OpenAI's offices and convened an employee meeting. The company's Slack channel lit up with emojis of a middle finger.
Only about a dozen workers showed up, including Dr. Sutskever. In the lobby, Anna Brockman approached him in tears. She tugged his arm and urged him to reconsider Mr. Altman's removal. He stood stone-faced.
Breaking the Logjam
At 4:30 a.m. on Nov. 20, Mr. D'Angelo was awakened by a phone call from a frightened OpenAI employee. If Mr. D'Angelo didn't step down from the board in the next 30 minutes, the employee said, the company would collapse.
Mr. D'Angelo hung up. Over the past few hours, he realized, things had worsened.
Just before midnight, Mr. Nadella had posted on X that he was hiring Mr. Altman and Mr. Brockman to lead a lab at Microsoft. He had invited other OpenAI employees to join.
That morning, more than 700 of OpenAI's 770 employees had also signed a letter saying they might follow Mr. Altman to Microsoft unless the board resigned.
One name on the letter stood out: Dr. Sutskever, who had changed sides. "I deeply regret my participation in the board's actions," he wrote on X that morning.
OpenAI's viability was in question. The board members had little choice but to negotiate.
To break the impasse, Mr. D'Angelo and Mr. Altman talked the next day. Mr. D'Angelo suggested former Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, a professor at Harvard, for the board. Mr. Altman liked the idea.
Mr. Summers, from his Boston-area home, spoke with Mr. D'Angelo, Mr. Altman, Mr. Nadella and others. Each probed him for his views on A.I. and management, while he asked about OpenAI's tumult. He said he wanted to be sure that he could play the role of a broker.
Mr. Summers's addition pushed Mr. Altman to abandon his demand for a board seat and agree to an independent investigation of his leadership and dismissal.
By late Nov. 21, they had a deal. Mr. Altman would return as chief executive, but not to the board. Mr. Summers, Mr. D'Angelo and Mr. Taylor would be board members, with Microsoft eventually joining as a nonvoting observer. Ms. Toner, Ms. McCauley and Dr. Sutskever would leave the board.
This week, Mr. Altman and some of his advisers were still fuming. They wanted his name cleared.
"Do u have a plan B to stop the postulation about u being fired its not healthy and its not true!!!" Mr. Conway texted Mr. Altman.
Mr. Altman said he was working with OpenAI's board: "They really want silence but i think important to address soon."
Nico Grant contributed reporting from San Francisco. Susan Beachy contributed research.
Nico Grant contributed reporting from San Francisco. Susan Beachy contributed research.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13.

Subject: Video teleconferencing; Artificial intelligence; Power; Startups; Chatbots; Boards of directors

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups Boards of directors

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Altman, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Y Combinator; NAICS: 523910; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/09/technology/openai-altman-inside-crisis.html

Title: First, Bitter Defeat at OpenAI, And Then Tables Were Turned:   [Series ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 9, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899582839

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-bitter-defeat-at-openai-then-tables-were/docview/2899582839/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Key Players: [National Desk]

Author: Metz, Cade

Publication info: Metz, Cade. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/key-players/docview/2899582267/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A mix of prominent tech industry figures and people not well known outside the A.I. community played big roles in the upheaval at the company.
On Nov. 17, Silicon Valley tumbled into turmoil when Sam Altman, chief executive of the high-profile A.I. start-up OpenAI, was suddenly removed by the company's board of directors. After a five-day roller-coaster ride that encapsulated the increasingly heated battle over the future of artificial intelligence, Mr. Altman was reinstated and a new board was created. Here is a list of players in the year's biggest tech drama:
Sam Altman, OpenAI's chief executive and a founder: Mr. Altman founded OpenAI as a nonprofit lab with Elon Musk and several others in 2015, while serving as the president of Y Combinator, a powerful Silicon Valley start-up incubator. He took over as chief executive in 2018, attached the lab to a for-profit company and soon raised $ 1 billion in funding from Microsoft.
Greg Brockman, OpenAI's president and a founder: After dropping out of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr. Brockman was the chief technology officer at Stripe, an online payment company that Mr. Altman helped incubate. He was among OpenAI's 12 founders, saying the lab would build A.I. that was free from the corporate pressures that drove Google and other tech giants.
Ilya Sutskever, OpenAI's chief scientist and a founder: Dr. Sutskever was among three researchers at the University of Toronto who launched the A.I. boom in 2012 when they published a paper showing that machines could learn to identify objects in images with surprising accuracy. After joining Google, he defected to join Mr. Altman, Mr. Brockman and others in founding OpenAI.
Mira Murati, OpenAI's chief technology officer: Ms. Murati joined OpenAI in 2018 and later became its chief technology officer. When four OpenAI board members -- Dr. Sutskever, Adam D'Angelo, Helen Toner and Tasha McCauley -- decided to remove Mr. Altman as chief executive, they asked Ms. Murati to briefly serve as interim chief executive.
Adam D'Angelo, OpenAI board member: As a student at Phillips Exeter Academy, he built an online music player alongside Mark Zuckerberg, the future founder of Facebook. After serving as Facebook's chief technology officer from 2006 to 2008, he founded the question-and-answer site Quora. He joined the OpenAI board of directors in 2018 and remains chief executive of Quora.
Helen Toner, former OpenAI board member: Ms. Toner joined the board in 2021. She identifies as an effective altruist, part of a community of people who believe that A.I. could one day destroy humanity. She is also a director of strategy at Georgetown University's Center for Security and Emerging Technology, a think tank, where she writes about national security issues. She left the board as part of the agreement to bring Mr. Altman back to the company.
Tasha McCauley, former OpenAI board member: Ms. McCauley is an adjunct senior management scientist at the RAND Corporation, one of the country's oldest think tanks, and serves on the British board of Effective Ventures, a federation of organizations dedicated to effective altruism. In 2015, she attended a seminal A.I. safety summit in Puerto Rico alongside Mr. Musk and others. She, too, left the OpenAI board when Mr. Altman returned.
Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief executive: Mr. Nadella bumped into Mr. Altman in 2018 at the Sun Valley Conference, often called "summer camp for billionaires." In the year that followed, Mr. Nadella and Microsoft agreed to invest $ 1 billion in OpenAI. They have since invested an additional $ 12 billion.
Brian Chesky, Airbnb's chief executive: Mr. Chesky's company is another tech start-up that Mr. Altman helped incubate. After Mr. Altman was ousted from OpenAI -- and decided that he would find a way of returning to the company -- Mr. Chesky was among the many friends and colleagues who helped make it happen.
Emmett Shear, former chief executive of Twitch: Mr. Shear founded Justin.tv, yet another start-up Mr. Altman helped incubate. He later served as chief executive of Twitch, a company spun out of Justin.tv. He is among those who believe that A.I. could one day destroy humanity. Mr. Shear also briefly served as OpenAI's interim chief executive.
Bret Taylor, new OpenAI board chairman: Mr. Taylor is the former co-chief executive of Salesforce.com and another former chief technology officer for Facebook. He was also the chair of Twitter when Mr. Musk bought it. As part of the agreement to return Mr. Altman to OpenAI, Mr. Taylor joined the OpenAI board and took over as chairman.
Lawrence H. Summers, new OpenAI board member: Mr. Summers is one of the country's most prominent economists. He served as Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, and has been speaking out about the potential for A.I. to displace workers. But his reputation has been damaged over the years. While serving as president of Harvard, he said women might lack an intrinsic aptitude for math and science.
Ron Conway, Silicon Valley investor: Mr. Conway is a well-known venture capitalist and longtime friend of Mr. Altman's. With Mr. Chesky, he helped persuade Mr. Altman to push his way back into OpenAI. This week, he sent a text to Mr. Altman urging him to silence speculation about why he was removed from the OpenAI board.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Chief technology officers; Appointments & personnel changes; Chairman of the board; Startups; Boards of directors

Business indexing term: Subject: Chief technology officers Appointments & personnel changes Chairman of the board Startups Boards of directors

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Altman, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Justin.tv; NAICS: 518210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/09/technology/key-players-in-openais-boardroom-drama.html

Title: Key Players:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 9, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899582267

Document URL: https://www.p roquest.com/newspapers/key-players/docview/2899582267/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside OpenAI’s Crisis Over the Future of Artificial Intelligence

Author: Mickle, Tripp; Metz, Cade; Isaac, Mike; Weise, Karen

Publication info: Mickle, Tripp; Metz, Cade; Isaac, Mike; Weise, Karen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-openai-s-crisis-over-future-artificial/docview/2899492566/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — About noon on Nov. 17, Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, logged into a video call from a luxury hotel in Las Vegas. He was in the city for its inaugural Formula One race, which had drawn 315,000 visitors including Rihanna and Kylie Minogue.
Altman, who had parlayed the success of OpenAI’s ChatGPT chatbot into personal stardom beyond the tech world, had a meeting lined up that day with Ilya Sutskever, chief scientist of the artificial intelligence startup. But when the call started, Altman saw that Sutskever was not alone — he was virtually flanked by OpenAI’s three independent board members.
Instantly, Altman knew something was wrong.
Unbeknownst to Altman, Sutskever and the three board members had been whispering behind his back for months. They believed Altman had been dishonest and should no longer lead a company that was driving the AI race. On a call the previous afternoon, the board members had voted one by one to push Altman out of OpenAI.
Now they were delivering the news. Shocked that he was being fired from a startup he had helped found, Altman asked, “How can I help?” The board members urged him to support an interim CEO. He assured them that he would.
Within hours, Altman changed his mind and declared war on OpenAI’s board.
His ouster was the culmination of years of simmering tensions at OpenAI that pit those alarmed by AI’s power against others who saw the technology as a once-in-a-lifetime profit and prestige bonanza. As divisions deepened, the organization’s leaders sniped and turned on one another. That led to a boardroom brawl that ultimately showed who has the upper hand in AI’s future development: Silicon Valley’s tech elite and deep-pocketed corporate interests.
The drama embroiled Microsoft, which had committed $13 billion to OpenAI and weighed in to protect its investment. Many top Silicon Valley executives and investors also mobilized to support Altman.
Some fought back from Altman’s $27 million mansion in San Francisco, lobbying through social media and voicing their displeasure in private text threads, according to interviews with more than 25 people with knowledge of the events.
At the center of the storm was Altman, a 38-year-old multimillionaire.
An Incendiary Mix
From the moment it was created in 2015, OpenAI was primed to combust.
The San Francisco lab was founded by Elon Musk, Altman, Sutskever and nine others. Its goal was to build AI systems to benefit all of humanity. Unlike most tech startups, it was established as a nonprofit with a board that was responsible for making sure it fulfilled that mission.
The board was stacked with people who had competing AI philosophies. On one side were those who worried about AI’s dangers, including Musk, who left OpenAI in a huff in 2018. On the other were Altman and those focused more on the technology’s potential benefits.
In 2019, Altman — who had extensive contacts in Silicon Valley as president of startup incubator Y Combinator — became OpenAI’s CEO. He would own just a tiny stake in the startup.
Earlier this year, departures shrank OpenAI’s board to six people from nine. Three — Altman, Sutskever and Greg Brockman, OpenAI’s president — were founders of the lab.
Helen Toner, a director of strategy at Georgetown University’s Center for Security and Emerging Technology, was part of the effective altruist community that believes AI could one day destroy humanity. Adam D’Angelo had long worked with AI as CEO of the question-and-answer website Quora. Tasha McCauley, an adjunct scientist at the Rand Corp., had worked on tech and AI policy and governance issues and taught at Singularity University, which was named for the moment when machines can no longer be controlled by their creators.
They were united by a concern that AI could become more intelligent than humans.
Tensions Mount
After OpenAI introduced ChatGPT last year, the board became jumpier.
As millions of people used the chatbot to write love letters and brainstorm college essays, Altman embraced the spotlight. He appeared with Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s CEO, at tech events.
Yet, as Altman raised OpenAI’s profile, some board members worried that ChatGPT’s success was antithetical to creating safe AI, two people familiar with their thinking said.
Their concerns were compounded when they clashed with Altman in recent months over who should fill the board’s three open seats.
In September, Altman met investors in the Middle East to discuss an AI chip project. The board was concerned that he wasn’t sharing all his plans with it, three people familiar with the matter said.
What Did Sam Do
When news broke of Altman’s firing on Nov. 17, a text landed in a private WhatsApp group of more than 100 CEOs of Silicon Valley companies, including Meta’s Mark Zuckerberg and Dropbox’s Drew Houston.
“Sam is out,” the text said.
The thread immediately blew up with questions: What did Sam do?
That same query was being asked at Microsoft, OpenAI’s biggest investor. As Altman was being fired, Kevin Scott, Microsoft’s chief technology officer, got a call from Mira Murati, OpenAI’s chief technology officer. She told him that in a matter of minutes, OpenAI’s board would announce that it had canned Altman and that she was the interim chief.
Scott immediately asked someone at Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, Washington, to get Nadella out of a meeting he was having with top lieutenants. Shocked, Nadella called Murati about the OpenAI board’s reasoning, three people with knowledge of the call said. In a statement, OpenAI’s board had said only that Altman “was not consistently candid in his communications” with the board. Murati didn’t have answers.
Nadella then phoned D’Angelo, OpenAI’s lead independent director. What could Altman have done, Nadella asked, to cause the board to act so abruptly? Was there anything nefarious?
“No,” D’Angelo replied, speaking in generalities. Nadella remained confused.
Turning the Tables
Shortly after Altman’s removal from OpenAI, a friend reached out to him. It was Brian Chesky, Airbnb’s CEO.
Chesky asked Altman what he could do to help. Altman said he wanted to talk.
When they spoke on Nov. 17, Chesky peppered Altman with questions about why OpenAI’s board had terminated him. Altman said he was as uncertain as everyone else.
At the same time, OpenAI’s employees were demanding details. The board dialed into a call that afternoon to talk to about 15 OpenAI executives, who crowded into a conference room at the company’s offices in San Francisco.
The board members said that Altman had lied to the board but that they couldn’t elaborate for legal reasons.
Jason Kwon, OpenAI’s chief strategy officer, accused the board of violating its fiduciary responsibilities. “It cannot be your duty to allow the company to die,” he said, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting.
Toner replied, “The destruction of the company could be consistent with the board’s mission.”
OpenAI’s executives insisted that the board resign that night or they would all leave.
The support gave Altman ammunition. He flirted with creating a new startup, but Chesky and Ron Conway, a Silicon Valley investor and friend, urged Altman to reconsider.
Altman decided to take back what he felt was his.
Even as the board considered bringing Altman back, it wanted concessions. That included bringing on new members who could control Altman. The board encouraged the addition of Bret Taylor, Twitter’s former chair. As insurance, the board also sought another interim CEO in case talks with Altman broke down.
Breaking the Logjam
At 4:30 a.m. on Nov. 20, D’Angelo was awakened by a phone call from a frightened OpenAI employee. If D’Angelo didn’t step down from the board, the employee said, the company would collapse.
Over the past few hours, D’Angelo realized, things had worsened.
Just before midnight, Nadella had posted on X that he was hiring Altman and Brockman to lead a lab at Microsoft. That morning, more than 700 of OpenAI’s 770 employees had also signed a letter saying they might follow Altman to Microsoft unless the board resigned.
One name on the letter stood out: Sutskever, who had changed sides.
OpenAI’s viability was in question. The board members had little choice but to negotiate.
To break the impasse, D’Angelo and Altman talked the next day. D’Angelo suggested former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, a professor at Harvard, for the board. Altman liked the idea.
Summers spoke with D’Angelo, Altman, Nadella and others. Each probed him for his views on AI and management, while he asked about OpenAI’s tumult. He said he wanted to be sure that he could play the role of a broker.
Summers’ addition pushed Altman to abandon his demand for a board seat and agree to an independent investigation of his leadership and dismissal.
By late Nov. 21, they had a deal. Altman would return as CEO, but not to the board. Summers, D’Angelo and Taylor would be board members, with Microsoft eventually joining as a nonvoting observer. Toner, McCauley and Sutskever would leave the board.
This week, Altman and some of his advisers were still fuming. They wanted his name cleared.
“Do u have a plan B to stop the postulation about u being fired its not healthy and its not true!!!,” Conway texted Altman.
Altman said he was working with OpenAI’s board: “They really want silence but i think important to address soon.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Chief executive officers; Startups; Employees; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Chief executive officers Startups Employees

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Altman, Sam

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

Identifier / keyword: Harvard University; Inaugurations; Company Reports; Boards Of Directors; Openai Labs; San Francisco (Calif); Artificial Intelligence; Singularity University; Enterprise Computing; Start Ups; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Houston (Tex); Videophones And Videoconferencing; Washington (State); Con Way Inc; Georgetown University; Airbnb; Elections; Philanthropy; Brockman, Greg; Summers, Lawrence H; Dropbox Inc; Y Combinator; Nadella, Satya; Social Media; Whatsapp Inc; Redmond (Wash); Formula One; Letters; Treasury Department; Murati, Mira; Chatgpt; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Lying; Middle East; Twitter; Workplace Environment; Minogue, Kylie; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Houston, Andrew W; Labor And Jobs; Russia; Speeches And Statements; Automobile Racing; Meta Platforms Inc; Altman, Samuel H; Chesky, Brian; Las Vegas (Nev); QuoraCom; Toner, Helen; Names, Organizational; Conway, Ron; Business; Colleges And Universities; Microsoft Corp; Appointments And Executive Changes; Sutskever, Ilya; Luxury Goods And Services; Rand Corp

Title: Inside OpenAI’s Crisis Over the Future of Artificial Intelligence

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 9, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-09T17:30:02Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899492566

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-openai-s-crisis-over-future-artificial/docview/2899492566/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Key Stops: [Travel Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/key-stops/docview/2895947385/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Key
stops
La Cocina de Humo, a tiny restaurant, offers an introductory cooking course that teaches how to prepare classics like Oaxacan moles, salsas and tamales.
Jardín Etnobotánico, a botanical garden, features the lush biodiversity of Oaxaca State and shows how it influenced the development of pre-Hispanic civilizations.
Humito Cocina y Foro 8 Temblor presents live jazz, boleros, cumbia and other genres in a cozy performance space.
Museo de Arte Prehispánico de México Rufino Tamayo houses a vast collection of pre-Hispanic figures chosen for their aesthetic qualities.
Where
To Eat
At Origen, the inventive chef Rodolfo Castellanos fuses traditional Oaxacan flavors with other cuisines.
Alfonsina is the singular vision of the chef Jorge León, who returned to his hometown to explore the essence of Oaxaca's biodiversity in his recipes.
El Lechoncito de Oro is a late-night taco stand serving chopped suckling pig to after-hours revelers.
Boulenc is a bakery and breakfast spot with delicious pastries and unbeatable sourdough bread.
Restaurante Coronita is a restaurant where diners have been sampling moles and no-frills classics since 1948.
Where
to stay
La Danta is a luxury Airbnb. Four limestone bungalows are set among the dense vegetation of a garden built into an 18th-century aqueduct. The bungalows range from 3,000 to 6,000 pesos (about $ 175 to $ 350) a night.
Hotel Casa de la Tía Tere, in the city center, is a popular family-friendly hotel with a swimming pool. A standard room costs 1,520 pesos and a bungalow is 2,620 pesos.
Casa Las Mercedes is a centrally located small hotel with simple rooms. Rooms start from 1,350 pesos.
For short-term rentals, look in Xochimilco and Jalatlaco, two picturesque neighborhoods just to the north and east of Oaxaca's historic center.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Biodiversity

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/27/travel/02hours-oaxaca-box.html

Title: Key Stops:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 2, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2895947385

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/key-stops/docview/2895947385/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Welcome to a Town Created by Airbnb In Rural Oklahoma: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Satow, Julie

Publication info: Satow, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/welcome-town-created-airbnb-rural-oklahoma/docview/2893697374/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The tiny town of Hochatown, on the shores of Broken Bow Lake in the southeast corner of Oklahoma, was created exactly one year ago. And it's almost entirely thanks to Airbnb.
"Airbnb built this town 100 percent," said Dian Jordan, the mayor of Hochatown. Last November, Ms. Jordan and 128 fellow residents successfully fought to incorporate a narrow 11-square-mile strip of bumpy dirt roads, modest log cabins and enormous modern mansions that sits within the territory of the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma.
During the week, Hochatown has a population of just 219 people, but on weekends, as many as 50,000 visitors, mostly from Dallas, a three-hour drive away, flock there to kayak, fly-fish and hike among the waterfalls, rapids and thick forests of pine and pawpaw trees.
Before the pandemic, Hochatown had roughly 400 cabins for rent on Airbnb. There are now more than 2,400 -- a staggering 413 percent increase in five years, according to AirDNA, a short-term rental business site that tracks Airbnb data. In September, the town collected its first month's sales tax, totaling $ 456,000, and hopes to eventually reap as much as $ 1 million in tax revenue a month.
"For a town of a few hundred people, this number is astronomical," said David Francis, the business registration manager at the Oklahoma Tax Commission. "The town is basically one giant Airbnb."
At the height of the pandemic, the number of Airbnb listings in small towns and rural areas exploded, as city dwellers fled to the country. At the same time, urban areas have cracked down on short term rentals, among them New York City, which rolled out strict new rules in September about who can -- and cannot -- rent out their homes to short-term guests. Since its implementation, the company's short-term listings in New York have fallen by 77 percent, according to AirDNA.
Some predicted that these regulatory changes would spell Airbnb's death knell, and there were reports that its revenue was dropping precipitously as the waning pandemic changed travel patterns. But last week, the company posted better-than-expected third quarter results. According to the company, it added nearly 1 million active listings this year, and in the first half of 2023, Airbnb guests stayed in over 94,000 cities and towns -- a record, the company said.
"The dispersal of tourism, often to places where there are no hotels, has major economic benefits," said Jay Carney, the global head of policy and communications at Airbnb. "Areas that might be seeing population declines or industries moving out, can now generate tourism dollars for the first time."
But the company's report also contained a data point that is reverberating through Airbnb boom towns like Hochatown: For the first time since the pandemic recovery, Airbnb's supply of rental homes is outpacing demand, with supply increasing 19 percent year over year, compared to just 14 percent for demand. That gap can spell disaster for hosts, particularly those who bought houses at the peak of the market with the idea of renting them out. In extreme cases, they are being forced to sell at a loss.
"Five percentage points between supply and demand is very significant," said Bjorn Hanson, an adjunct professor at New York University's Jonathan M. Tisch Center of Hospitality, and can cause hosts to drop their prices, in what can quickly become a race to the bottom.
The 'Airbnb effect'
What might be called the Airbnb effect has transformed the landscapes -- and the economies -- of countless small towns across the United States. In Northport, Ala., Airbnb listings jumped 47 percent in the last 12 months. In Eagle Pass, in southern Texas, Airbnb listings grew more than 168 percent year over year.
Perhaps no place has been transformed more than Hochatown. U.S. Highway 259, a two-lane road, is the only way into and out of town. On weekends it is a traffic jam of long-haul trucks, tribal buses and tourist vehicles, including streams of R.Vs. Hochatown does not have a single police officer or professional firefighter. There is no sewerage system, no garbage collection, not even sufficient water to handle the proliferation of people and new homes.
As its popularity grew, Hochatown's push to become an official town accelerated. Because it was unincorporated area, decisions about its resources for services and utilities were made by the McCurtain County. For instance, as Airbnbs spread, and one-room cabins transformed into $ 1 million rental homes, Hochatown's roads remained unpaved and riddled with potholes, many impassable without four-wheel drive; homeowners often paid to pave their own roads.
Water was another pressing problem. Most Airbnbs in the area boast hot tubs, which use an inordinate amount of water. "If you don't have a hot tub, you can't rent," said Leo Winegar, a cabin owner in Hochatown. "But if a pipe breaks, because of the lack of redundancy and infrastructure, half the town has no water for days."
Some assistance has come from the Choctaw Nation, the country's third-largest Native American tribe. It is constructing Choctaw Landing, a $ 238 million resort and casino in Hochatown, which is expected to bring 443,000 visitors annually when it opens this spring. To facilitate this, the tribe is widening portions of U.S. Highway 259 and upgrading some of the area's rural water infrastructure.
Wiped off the map
Hochatown's history is long, even if its identity as a town is short. Flint spear and dart points indicate that it was inhabited as early as 6,000 B.C. The Caddo people used it as their winter hunting grounds, and the first Choctaws arrived in the 1830s, driven by the forced resettlement of America's Indigenous people known as the Trail of Tears. White settlers came at the turn of the 20th century, logging the area's virgin forests and manufacturing moonshine -- big business during Prohibition. They called their settlement Hochatown, thought it was never formally incorporated.
By 1960, Hochatown's population had dwindled to less than 100, and the Army Corps of Engineers flooded the land to construct a dam. Old Hochatown, as it is now known, lies beneath Broken Bow Lake. The remaining residents were relocated to higher ground, and over the ensuing years, Hochatown lost its post office, its ZIP code and its place on the map.
In 2015, Ms. Jordan, a volunteer mayor who is as rugged and can-do as her town, helped lead the effort to incorporate. Like almost everyone in Hochatown, the 61-year-old, who retires next month as a senior lecturer at the University of Texas Permian Basin, is also a cabin owner, with three rental properties.
With Hochatown's hefty tax revenues on the line, opponents of its incorporation quickly emerged. The city of Broken Bow, which lies nine miles to the south, annexed part of the town for itself. Hochatown sued and won back control over the area, but the relationship between neighbors remains frosty.
"We were just trying to help them be successful," said Vickie Patterson, the city manager of Broken Bow, who added it was part of an effort to bring services like traffic lights to the area. Hochatown residents also sued the county over lodging taxes. They lost the case and are appealing the decision.
The past few years were a frenzy of buying and building. "The Covid thing was both a blessing and a curse," Todd McDaniel, a builder who also manages 60 rental properties, said as he drove to the store for sardines to lure a raccoon that had lodged itself in the roof of a cabin. "When it first hit, we were refunding tens of thousands of dollars to guests. Then somebody flipped the switch, and we were running at 95 percent occupancy."
Land prices doubled, and cabins, many built speedily, without adhering to building codes, were repeatedly flipped. One home, called "California Dreaming," was sold in 2020 for $ 590,000, then again in 2021, for $ 1.1 million.
With the influx of people and profits, chaos ensued. "It's the Wild West," said Jason Ward, a cabin owner in Hochatown. "When there is that much money on the line, things get crazy."
One story, of a part-time transplant from Dallas, shows just how crazy. In 2018, Kelli Haus was a single mother with two young sons. She emptied her bank account and used her life savings to purchase a rental cabin in Hochatown. She quickly sold it for double what she'd paid and reinvested her profits, snatching up more properties. Eventually, Ms. Haus became a real estate agent.
At the market's height, Ms. Haus's signs were plastered all over town, and for some, she came to personify the changes afoot. Her signs were defaced with mustaches and devil horns; bullet holes were drawn on her forehead.
But Ms. Haus wasn't cowed. Instead, she enlarged one of the defaced signs and stuck it on a billboard heading into town. "When people saw it, my phone blew up with supporters," she said. "The whole thing backfired."
Harassment like that faced by Ms. Haus, as well as noise complaints, damaged property and theft have become relatively common in Hochatown. Yet with no police force, residents rely on the highway patrol, park rangers and the McCurtain County Sheriff's Department, which was in the news earlier this year when its sheriff was caught on audio tape discussing killing journalists and Black people.
The town does have a former deputy who founded his own security company. Jason Ricketts, whose body builder physique belies a soft heart, quells noisy parties and other disturbances and is "our own Barney Fife," said Ms. Jordan, referring to the fictional deputy on "The Andy Griffith Show."
After the gold rush
In the spring, the gold rush began to slow. Occupancy rates plummeted to 55 percent in March and dipped to a low of 40 percent in August. "For Sale" signs were posted, and listings that once sold in hours took months. The "California Dreaming" cabin, which had doubled in value in a single year, was re-listed in 2022 for $ 1.299 million. After repeated price cuts, it is now asking just $ 899,000.
Mr. Winegar was caught up in the slowdown. He bought land at the end of 2021, when the bubble was peaking, but by the time he finished construction and was ready to rent his cabin, the bubble had burst. What he expected to be a sure moneymaker was an instant loser.
"We scrimped and saved to buy a plot of land and get a construction loan," said Mr. Winegar, who lives in Dallas with his wife and three children. He built the home with a dream of recreating for his family the memories he had of going to his uncle's cabin in Idaho as a boy. "At the time, the numbers were so amazing, it seemed like there was no way I could lose."
This summer, Mr. Winegar was laid off from a job in tech. He's now working nights at a Dallas Costco and starting a handyman business in Hochatown, despite a lack of experience.
One recent morning, Mr. Winegar was exhausted after driving from his night shift to Hochatown. His only food for the next two days was carrots and cans of tuna fish, and he was busy watching YouTube to figure out how to flush a tankless water heater.
Ms. Jordan is friends with Mr. Winegar and is sympathetic to his misfortune. But as mayor, she welcomes the real estate dip. "It is a blessing," she said, "a chance to catch our breath and catch up."
In its most recent earnings announcement, Airbnb said that it was expecting much of its growth in the next year to come from international rentals, especially in Latin America and the Asia-Pacific market. And it has also rolled out several initiatives that it says will make it easier for hosts to stay competitive in their markets.
A spokesman for the company said it is always trying to balance the needs of hosts and guests, and that a growing supply helps ensure that guests have choices and keeps prices down.
"I hope I don't have to sell the cabin," sighed Mr. Winegar. "We still have a bit of savings. If Airbnb could just promote our listing a bit more, maybe even lower their fees, I think I can make it."
Julie Satow is the award-winning author of " The Plaza: The Secret Life of America's Most Famous Hotel " and the forthcoming " When Women Ran Fifth Avenue: Glamour and Power at the Dawn of American Fashion, " to be published in June 2024 by Doubleday.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Before the pandemic, Hochatown, Okla., had roughly 400 cabins for rent on Airbnb. There are now more than 2,400, according to a site that tracks Airbnb data. The town, incorporated last November, has dirt roads, and mansions. (B1); Dian Jordan, standing in a local diner she calls her "town hall," is the volunteer mayor of Hochatown. The town is in the territory of the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma, which is widening U.S. Highway 259 as part of Choctaw Landing, a casino resort project, and upgrading some of the area's rural water infrastructure. The original Hochatown was flooded to create Broken Bow Lake. (B4); U.S. Highway 259, left, brings as many as 50,000 visitors, mostly from Dallas, to Hochatown, Okla., on weekends. Kelli Haus, below, became a real estate agent and came to personify the changes afoot. Leo Winegar, bottom, with his cabin, which became a money loser when occupancy rates fell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHELBY TAUBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4-B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4, B5.

Subject: Saunas & hot tubs; Rural areas; Corporate profits; Rentals; Tourism; Pandemics; Towns; Roads & highways

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits

Location: Broken Bow Lake; New York; United States--US; Oklahoma

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/10/travel/airbnb-rural-boom-bust.html

Title: Welcome to a Town Created by Airbnb In Rural Oklahoma:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 27, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893697374

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/welcome-town-created-airbnb-rural-oklahoma/docview/2893697374/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

X May Lose Up to $75 Million as Advertisers Flee: [National Desk]

Author: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-may-lose-up-75-million-as-advertisers-flee/docview/2893697361/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Internal documents show companies like Airbnb, Coca-Cola and Microsoft have halted ads, or may do so, after Elon Musk's endorsement of an antisemitic conspiracy theory.
X, the social media company formerly known as Twitter, could lose as much as $ 75 million in advertising revenue by the end of the year as dozens of major brands pause their marketing campaigns after its owner, Elon Musk, endorsed an antisemitic conspiracy theory this month.
Internal documents viewed by The New York Times this week show that the company is in a more difficult position than previously known and that concerns about Mr. Musk and the platform have spread far beyond companies including IBM, Apple and Disney, which paused their advertising campaigns on X last week. The documents list more than 200 ad units of companies from the likes of Airbnb, Amazon, Coca-Cola and Microsoft, many of which have halted or are considering pausing their ads on the social network.
The documents come from X's sales team and are meant to track the impact of all the advertising lapses this month, including those by companies that have already paused and others that may be at risk of doing so. They list how much ad revenue X employees fear the company could lose through the end of the year if advertisers do not return.
On Friday, X said in a statement that $ 11 million in revenue was at risk and that the exact figure fluctuated as some advertisers returned to the platform and others increased spending. The company said the numbers viewed by The Times were either outdated or represented an internal exercise to evaluate total risk.
The advertising freezes come during the final three months of the year, which is traditionally the social media company's strongest quarter as brands run holiday promotions for events such as Black Friday and Cyber Monday. In the last three months of 2021 -- the last year the company reported fourth-quarter earnings before Mr. Musk took over -- the company recorded $ 1.57 billion in revenue, of which nearly 90 percent came from advertising.
Since Mr. Musk's $ 44 billion acquisition of Twitter last year, some brands have been hesitant to advertise on the platform, concerned with Mr. Musk's behavior and content moderation decisions, which have led to a rise in incendiary and hateful content. U.S. advertising on the platform is down nearly 60 percent this year, prompting the company to try to woo back advertisers in an effort its chief executive, Linda Yaccarino, is spearheading. X is also campaigning for advertisers to return during the holiday period to make up for revenue shortfalls earlier in the year.
The documents, however, reveal that has not been going to plan. More than 100 brands are shown as having "fully paused" their ads while dozens of others are listed as "at risk." Many paused on or after Nov. 15, when Mr. Musk wrote in a post on X that the conspiracy theory that Jews supported the immigration of minorities to replace white populations was "the actual truth."
Leesha Anderson, the vice president of digital marketing and social media at the advertising agency Outcast, said its clients steadily stopped spending on X after Mr. Musk took over and had found alternatives on platforms like LinkedIn and TikTok.
"In today's dynamic marketplace, brands have a plethora of platform choices at their disposal for precise audience targeting," she said. "Therefore, it is imperative for the stewards and proprietors of social platforms to exercise deliberate discretion in all aspects, be it their personal beliefs or political stances, as these choices will inevitably undergo public scrutiny."
The organizations that have paused their ads on X range from political campaigns to fast food chains to tech giants, according to the documents. Airbnb, for example, halted more than $ 1 million of advertising, while Uber cut back on ads worth more than $ 800,000, halting campaigns in U.S. and international markets. Both tech companies declined to comment.
Other large brands, including Jack in the Box, Coca-Cola and Netflix, paused some of their campaigns. Netflix's halted ads were worth nearly $ 3 million, according to X's estimates. Jack in the Box, Coca-Cola and Netflix did not respond to requests for comment.
Various subsidiaries of Microsoft have also stopped advertising -- leading to a potential loss of more than $ 4 million in revenue for X's fourth quarter, based on the documents -- as have Amazon's units for books and music and one subsidiary of Google. The search giant and some other brands that have paused spending, including NBC Universal, have continued to post content on the platform without paying X to ensure it reaches a broad audience.
Google and Microsoft declined to comment. Amazon did not return requests for comment.
On the NBC program "Meet the Press" last Sunday, the Republican presidential candidate Chris Christie called Mr. Musk's comment part of a recent outpouring of an "outrageous type of hate."
"Whether it's Elon Musk, whether it's professors on our college campuses or students that they are misleading, or whether it's individuals who are speaking out in an antisemitic way on the streets of our cities," he said.
Two days before Mr. Christie's appearance, a super PAC supporting him, called Tell It Like It Is, pulled its advertising from X, according to the documents. A representative for the political fund-raising group did not respond to a request for comment.
In an internal meeting with employees at X this week, Ms. Yaccarino cut a defiant mood. She made no mention of Mr. Musk's endorsement of the antisemitic post and attributed the company's problems to a report by the left-wing media watchdog group Media Matters, which showed that ads on X from companies like IBM and Apple appeared next to posts promoting white nationalist and Nazi content.
On Monday, after Mr. Musk called Media Matters "an evil organization," X sued the group and argued that its report, which was published after Mr. Musk's statement, "manipulated the algorithms governing the user experience on X to bypass safeguards and create images of X's largest advertisers' paid posts adjacent to racist, incendiary content." Ms. Yaccarino has blamed the Media Matters report for X's declining ad sales.
"Kowtowing to external criticism or pressures is simply not how X will ever operate," she wrote in an email to X employees on Wednesday that was seen by The Times. "The people at X are free speech defenders. We stand in solidarity with those who believe in this fundamental right and the critical checks and balances of a thriving democracy."
Earlier this week, Mr. Musk spent time celebrating companies that have continued to advertise on X, including the National Football League. Using a heart emoji, X's billionaire owner said he loved the N.F.L. (The New York Times largely stopped marketing on the platform in early 2023, though the company's sports publication, The Athletic, has continued to purchase ads, according to a spokesman.)
Mr. Musk also noted that the company would donate "all revenue from advertising & subscriptions associated with the war in Gaza to hospitals in Israel and the Red Cross/Crescent in Gaza." The funding will include revenue from ads bought by charity groups, news organizations and other groups that advertised content related to the conflict.
Following her boss, Ms. Yaccarino added to Mr. Musk's original post with a plea.
"Lean in and help," she wrote on X.
Tiffany Hsu contributed reporting.
Tiffany Hsu contributed reporting.
Photograph Linda Yaccarino inherited falling ad revenue as X chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROD HARRIS/GETTY IMAGES FOR VOX MEDIA) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Marketing; Employees; Social networks; Antisemitism; Advertising revenue; Conspiracy; Endorsements; Political advertising; Financial performance; Online advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Employees Social networks Advertising revenue Financial performance Online advertising

Location: New York; United States--US; Gaza Strip

People: Musk, Elon; Yaccarino, Linda

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282; Name : Twitter Inc; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/24/business/x-elon-musk-advertisers.html

Title: X May Lose Up to $75 Million as Advertisers Flee:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 27, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893697361

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-may-lose-up-75-million-as-advertisers-flee/docview/2893697361/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Welcome to Hochatown, the Town Created by Airbnb

Author: Satow, Julie

Publication info: Satow, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/welcome-hochatown-town-created-airbnb/docview/2893678888/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
HOCHATOWN, Okla. — The tiny town of Hochatown, on the shores of Broken Bow Lake in the southeast corner of Oklahoma, was created exactly one year ago. And it’s almost entirely thanks to Airbnb.
“Airbnb built this town 100%,” said Dian Jordan, the mayor of Hochatown. Last November, Jordan and 128 fellow residents successfully fought to incorporate a narrow 11-square-mile strip of bumpy dirt roads, modest log cabins and enormous modern mansions that sits within the territory of the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma.
During the week, Hochatown has a population of just 219 people, but on weekends, as many as 50,000 visitors, mostly from Dallas, a three-hour drive away, flock there to kayak, fly-fish and hike among the waterfalls, rapids and thick forests of pine and pawpaw trees.
Before the pandemic, Hochatown had roughly 400 cabins for rent on Airbnb. There are now more than 2,400 — a staggering 413% increase in five years, according to AirDNA, a short-term rental business site that tracks Airbnb data. In September, the town collected its first month’s sales tax, totaling $456,000, and hopes to eventually reap as much as $1 million in tax revenue a month.
“For a town of a few hundred people, this number is astronomical,” said David Francis, the business registration manager at the Oklahoma Tax Commission. “The town is basically one giant Airbnb.”
At the height of the pandemic, the number of Airbnb listings in small towns and rural areas exploded, as city dwellers fled to the country. At the same time, urban areas have cracked down on short term rentals, among them New York City, which rolled out strict new rules in September about who can — and cannot — rent out their homes to short-term guests. The company’s short-term listings in New York have since fallen by 77%, according to AirDNA.
Some predicted that these regulatory changes would spell Airbnb’s death knell, and there were reports that its revenue was dropping precipitously as the waning pandemic changed travel patterns. But on Nov. 1, the company posted better-than-expected third-quarter results. According to the company, it added nearly 1 million active listings this year, and in the first half of 2023, Airbnb guests stayed in more than 94,000 cities and towns — a record, the company said.
“The dispersal of tourism, often to places where there are no hotels, has major economic benefits,” said Jay Carney, global head of policy and communications at Airbnb. “Areas that might be seeing population declines or industries moving out, can now generate tourism dollars for the first time.”
But the company’s report also contained a data point that is reverberating through Airbnb boom towns like Hochatown: For the first time since the pandemic recovery, Airbnb’s supply of rental homes is outpacing demand, with supply increasing 19% year over year, compared with just 14% for demand. That gap can spell disaster for hosts, particularly those who bought houses at the peak of the market with the idea of renting them out. In extreme cases, they are being forced to sell at a loss.
“Five percentage points between supply and demand is very significant,” said Bjorn Hanson, an adjunct professor at New York University’s Jonathan M. Tisch Center of Hospitality, and can cause hosts to drop their prices, in what can quickly become a race to the bottom.
The ‘Airbnb Effect’
What might be called the Airbnb effect has transformed the landscapes — and the economies — of countless small towns across the United States. In Northport, Alabama, Airbnb listings jumped 47% in the past 12 months. In Eagle Pass, in southern Texas, Airbnb listings grew more than 168% year over year.
Perhaps no place has been transformed more than Hochatown. U.S. Highway 259, a two-lane road, is the only way into and out of town. On weekends it is a traffic jam of long-haul trucks, tribal buses and tourist vehicles, including streams of RVs. Hochatown does not have a single police officer or professional firefighter. There is no sewage system, no garbage collection, not even sufficient water to handle the proliferation of people and new homes.
As Hochatown’s popularity grew, its push to become an official town accelerated. Because it was an unincorporated area, decisions about resources for services and utilities were made by the McCurtain County. For instance, as Airbnbs spread, and one-room cabins transformed into $1 million rental homes, Hochatown’s roads remained unpaved and riddled with potholes, many impassable without four-wheel drive; homeowners often paid to pave their own roads.
Water was another pressing problem. Most Airbnbs in the area have hot tubs, which use an inordinate amount of water. “If you don’t have a hot tub, you can’t rent,” said Leo Winegar, a cabin owner in Hochatown. “But if a pipe breaks, because of the lack of redundancy and infrastructure, half the town has no water for days.”
Some assistance has come from the Choctaw Nation, the country’s third-largest Native American tribe. It is constructing Choctaw Landing, a $238 million resort and casino in Hochatown, which is expected to bring 443,000 visitors annually when it opens this spring. To facilitate this, the tribe is widening portions of U.S. Highway 259 and upgrading some of the area’s rural water infrastructure.
Wiped Off the Map
Hochatown’s history is long, even if its identity as a town is short. Flint spear and dart points indicate that it was inhabited as early as 6,000 B.C. The Caddo people used it as their winter hunting grounds, and the first Choctaws arrived in the 1830s, driven by the forced resettlement of America’s Indigenous people known as the Trail of Tears. White settlers came at the turn of the 20th century, logging the area’s virgin forests and manufacturing moonshine — big business during Prohibition. They called their settlement Hochatown, though it was never formally incorporated.
By 1960, Hochatown’s population had dwindled to less than 100, and the Army Corps of Engineers flooded the land to construct a dam. Old Hochatown, as it is now known, lies beneath Broken Bow Lake. The remaining residents were relocated to higher ground, and over the ensuing years, Hochatown lost its post office, its ZIP code and its place on the map.
In 2015, Jordan, a volunteer mayor who is as rugged and can-do as her town, helped lead the effort to incorporate. Like almost everyone in Hochatown, the 61-year-old, who retires next month as a senior lecturer at the University of Texas Permian Basin, is also a cabin owner, with three rental properties.
With Hochatown’s hefty tax revenue on the line, opponents of its incorporation quickly emerged. The city of Broken Bow, which lies 9 miles to the south, annexed part of the town for itself. Hochatown sued and won back control over the area, but the relationship between neighbors remains frosty.
“We were just trying to help them be successful,” said Vickie Patterson, the city manager of Broken Bow, who added it was part of an effort to bring services like traffic lights to the area. Hochatown residents also sued the county over lodging taxes. They lost the case and are appealing the decision.
The past few years were a frenzy of buying and building. “The COVID thing was both a blessing and a curse,” Todd McDaniel, a builder who also manages 60 rental properties, said as he drove to the store for sardines to lure a raccoon that had lodged itself in the roof of a cabin. “When it first hit, we were refunding tens of thousands of dollars to guests. Then somebody flipped the switch, and we were running at 95% occupancy.”
Land prices doubled, and cabins, many built speedily, without adhering to building codes, were repeatedly flipped. One home, called “California Dreaming,” was sold in 2020 for $590,000, and then again in 2021, for $1.1 million.
With the influx of people and profits, chaos ensued. “It’s the Wild West,” said Jason Ward, a cabin owner in Hochatown. “When there is that much money on the line, things get crazy.”
One story, of a part-time transplant from Dallas, shows just how crazy. In 2018, Kelli Haus was a single mother with two young sons. She emptied her bank account and used her life savings to purchase a rental cabin in Hochatown. She quickly sold it for double what she had paid and reinvested her profits, snatching up more properties. Eventually, Haus became a real estate agent.
At the market’s height, Haus’ signs were plastered all over town, and for some, she came to personify the changes afoot. Her signs were defaced with mustaches and devil horns; bullet holes were drawn on her forehead.
But Haus wasn’t cowed. Instead, she enlarged one of the defaced signs and stuck it on a billboard heading into town. “When people saw it, my phone blew up with supporters,” she said. “The whole thing backfired.”
Harassment like that faced by Haus, as well as noise complaints, damaged property and theft have become relatively common in Hochatown. Yet with no police force, residents rely on the highway patrol, park rangers and the McCurtain County Sheriff’s Department, which was in the news this year when its sheriff was caught on audio tape discussing killing journalists and Black people.
The town does have a former deputy who founded his own security company. Jason Ricketts, quells noisy parties and other disturbances and is “our own Barney Fife,” said Jordan, referring to the fictional deputy on “The Andy Griffith Show.”
After the Gold Rush
In the spring, the gold rush began to slow. Occupancy rates plummeted to 55% in March and dipped to a low of 40% in August. “For Sale” signs were posted, and listings that once sold in hours took months. The “California Dreaming” cabin, which had doubled in value in a single year, was re-listed in 2022 for $1.29 million. After repeated price cuts, it is now asking just $899,000.
Winegar was caught up in the slowdown. He bought land at the end of 2021, when the bubble was peaking, but by the time he finished construction and was ready to rent his cabin, the bubble had burst. What he expected to be a sure moneymaker was an instant loser.
“We scrimped and saved to buy a plot of land and get a construction loan,” said Winegar, who lives in Dallas with his wife and three children. He built the home with a dream of recreating for his family the memories he had of going to his uncle’s cabin in Idaho as a boy. “At the time, the numbers were so amazing, it seemed like there was no way I could lose.”
This summer, Winegar was laid off from a job in tech. He’s now working nights at a Dallas Costco and starting a handyman business in Hochatown, despite a lack of experience.
One recent morning, Winegar was exhausted after driving from his night shift to Hochatown. His only food for the next two days was carrots and cans of tuna fish, and he was busy watching YouTube to figure out how to flush a tankless water heater.
Jordan is friends with Winegar and is sympathetic to his misfortune. But as mayor, she welcomes the real estate dip. “It is a blessing,” she said, “a chance to catch our breath and catch up.”
In its most recent earnings announcement, Airbnb said that it was expecting much of its growth in the next year to come from international rentals, especially in Latin America and the Asia-Pacific market. And it has also rolled out several initiatives that it says will make it easier for hosts to stay competitive in their markets.
A spokesperson for the company said it was always trying to balance the needs of hosts and guests, and that a growing supply helped ensure that guests had choices and kept prices down.
“I hope I don’t have to sell the cabin,” Winegar said with a sigh. “We still have a bit of savings. If Airbnb could just promote our listing a bit more, maybe even lower their fees, I think I can make it.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Saunas & hot tubs; Corporate profits; Rentals; Tax revenues; Tourism; Pandemics; Towns; Roads & highways

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits Tax revenues

Location: Broken Bow Lake; New York; United States--US; Oklahoma

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

Identifier / keyword: Dallas (Tex); Shortages; Griffith, Andy; Travel; Texas; Discount Selling; Real Estate (Commercial); Water; Lake County (Calif); United States; Waste Materials And Disposal; Relocation Of Business; Permian Basin (North America); Satow, Julie (Author); Airbnb; Lakes; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); California; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Alabama; Coastal Areas; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Gold; Army Corps Of Engineers; Population; Part Time Employment; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Local Government; International Relations; Native Americans; YoutubeCom; Rumors And Misinformation; Workplace Environment; Deaths (Fatalities); Sales And Excise Taxes; Choctaw Nation; New York University; Costco Wholesale Corporation; Collectors And Collections; Sewers And Sewage; Idaho; Rural Areas; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Eagle Pass (Tex); Building Service Employees; Seasons And Months; Water Heater s; Latin America; Land Use Policies; Travel And Vacations; Mccurtain County (Okla); Airdna; Colleges And Universities; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Noise; Roads And Traffic; Urban Areas; Oklahoma; Hochatown (Okla); Infrastructure (Public Works); Forests And Forestry; University Of Texas At Austin

Title: Welcome to Hochatown, the Town Created by Airbnb

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 26, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-26T22:28:45Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893678888

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/welcome-hochatown-town-created-airbnb/docview/2893678888/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Type All Day, Toast All Night: Remote-Work Weddings Are on the Rise: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Weed, Julie

Publication info: Weed, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/type-all-day-toast-night-remote-work-weddings-are/docview/2892448632/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Weekend nuptials are stretching out well into the workweek as guests with hybrid schedules pack their laptops and stick around for a few extra days.
A growing number of wedding guests are bringing a new kind of plus-one to the festivities: their remote jobs.
When Anna Sullivan, a 25-year-old who works in digital marketing, and Taylor Brandenberger, a 26-year-old home inspector, got married last month in East Lansing, Mich., 10 of the bride's friends started the wedding weekend a few days early. They rented an Airbnb where they could work remotely during the day and then got together for dinner and hangouts in the evening -- all without taking any time off.
Many of the guests even stayed through Monday, flying home in the evening after they had logged off. "The wedding day goes by in a blur," the bride, who has since changed her last name to Brandenberger, said. "Having the extra time with people was so valuable, especially waking up late Sunday and knowing they were still there."
Since the height of the pandemic, remote work has dramatically changed both offices and those who work in them. After initially being forced to work from home, many employees now enjoy all-remote or hybrid schedules. According to the Pew Research Center, one-third of American workers currently have some freedom to work remotely, even if it is just one or two days a week.
Wedding guests who are lucky enough to have those hybrid schedules are increasingly using them to spend a few more days wherever the celebration takes them, and hotels, wedding planners and couples are taking note and making changes.
Ms. Brandenberger's mother, who lives four hours away and works remotely in billing for a trading company in Chicago, came a week before the wedding. "She'd work during the day and we'd get together at night to make flower arrangements and bake together for the wedding," Ms. Brandenberger said. "It was such a big stress relief to have her nearby."
Attendance may even hinge on the possibility of remote work. The Brandenbergers planned their ceremony and reception on a Friday night to save money on renting the space. That meant some guests from out of town who had to be physically at work that day and couldn't take time off weren't able to attend, Ms. Brandenberger said.
Some couples choose to make a weekend destination out of their ceremony. Such weddings have long been a boon to hotels and resorts, many of which also added work spaces and upgraded their Wi-Fi to cater to remote workers during the pandemic. Now the two trends are converging.
At Camptown, a 50-room hotel that opened this year in Leeds, N.Y., at the foot of the Catskill Mountains, wedding-related stays have been getting longer, said Stephen Wendell, chief executive of Mountain Shore Properties, which owns the hotel. When guests realize they can work from the lodge, which offers high-speed internet, work spaces and a pantry of snacks available to buy on the honor system, he said, "They start thinking about relaxing and getting into wedding mode and extending their bookings."
Currently, about 20 percent of wedding guests arrive at Camptown from Tuesday to Thursday for a weekend ceremony, with Wednesdays experiencing the largest growth, Mr. Wendell said: "You see people at the pool with laptops, taking calls on the nature paths."
The Kimpton Armory, a boutique hotel in downtown Bozeman, Mont., also has experienced an uptick in midweek wedding guest check-ins, according to Courtney Reeves, the director of sales and marketing at the hotel. To accommodate those and other guests hoping to do some office work during their stay, the hotel has upgraded its free Wi-Fi, boosted coverage on the roof deck, added free printing services and opened up its meeting rooms, when they aren't booked, for people who want to drop in with a laptop for a while.
Michael Bruno, the owner of Valley Rock Inn, in Sloatsburg, N.Y., said a quarter of wedding-related stays in the last year extended two to three days beyond the weekend, an increase compared with prepandemic times. Guests who stay extra days can take advantage of guided hikes and bike rides, yoga and spin classes. Remote-work capabilities include free high-speed internet throughout the property, so guests can work indoors or outdoors, and meeting rooms equipped with large screens and whiteboards. Copying and printing are available as well.
The growth of extended-stay wedding guests happened naturally, said Mr. Wendell, of Camptown, but looking toward the 2024 wedding season, he said, "We are marketing to that group." When wedding inquiries come in now, planners highlight the appeal of the property's remote-work capabilities and longer stays. "The area is very much a weekend destination," he said, so filling midweek rooms really helps the business.
Sometimes an unexpectedly large group of remote-working early birds causes a last-minute change of plans.
Ben Cole, 35, who works at a financial start-up, and Max Alderman, 34, a law clerk, didn't expect that half of their 100 wedding guests would arrive days before their Sunday wedding last summer in Portland, Ore. "We thought we'd have a handful of people show up on Thursday," Mr. Cole said, and the couple had planned a few light activities for them. But so many extra guests with remote-work-friendly jobs wanted to join in that the grooms had to turn to their wedding planner to find options that would work for large groups and then ask guests to help manage each outing.
Mr. Cole and Mr. Alderman's schedule included a Friday tasting tour at nearby wineries. Some guests stayed back in their hotels to work, some took time off work to join the festivities, and a few even took phone calls between tasting flights, Mr. Cole said.
But, Mr. Cole said, the scramble was worth it. With more time to hang out, he said, the guests got the chance to get to know one another better, and some made plans to connect after the weekend. British friends of Mr. Alderman and childhood friends of Mr. Cole found out they were both planning to travel to Seattle after the wedding and decided to meet up there. Two other friends learned they lived in the same Los Angeles neighborhood.
"It was very stressful" when all those remote-work R.S.V.P.s came pouring in, Mr. Cole recalled. "Reflecting back, though," he said, "I've reframed it. It was a gift to everyone to have a great vacation and to meet people they'd want to hang out with after the wedding."
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Weddings; Marketing; Travel; Rites & ceremonies; Portable computers; Employment; Pandemics; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Employment Hotels & motels

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/17/travel/wedding-weekends-remote-work.html

Title: Type All Day, Toast All Night: Remote-Work Weddings Are on the Rise:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 23, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2892448632

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/type-all-day-toast-night-remote-work-weddings-are/docview/2892448632/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Smaller Board, for Now, With Only One Survivor: [National Desk]

Author: Mickle, Tripp; Isaac, Mike; Weise, Karen; Metz, Cade; Roose, Kevin

Publication info: Mickle, Tripp; Isaac, Mike; Weise, Karen; Metz, Cade; Roose, Kevin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smaller-board-now-with-only-one-survivor/docview/2892448591/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Who is off, and who is on? For now there are three members, including one holdover from the board that ousted Sam Altman as C.E.O. last week.
For much of the past year, OpenAI's board of directors has been criticized as too small and too divided to effectively govern one of the fastest-growing start-ups in Silicon Valley history.
On Friday, the board's dysfunction spilled into public view when four of its members fired Sam Altman, OpenAI's popular and powerful chief executive. The dismissal uncorked five turbulent days, as Mr. Altman rallied almost all of the company's 770 employees to lobby for the board's resignation and his reinstatement.
Mr. Altman, 38, returned to the company on Tuesday night, after days of haggling over his job and over the makeup of the board.
The board and Mr. Altman's allies discussed more than a half dozen options for its future. They considered a board size of three to seven members and discussed about 30 candidates, including Laurene Powell Jobs, the founder of the Emerson Collective and widow of Steve Jobs, and Brian Chesky, the chief executive of Airbnb. The departing board wanted to be sure the replacements would be independent thinkers and experienced enough to stand up to Mr. Altman.
On Tuesday evening, both sides agreed to create a provisional, three-person board. It is expected to expand in the coming months, two people close to the negotiations said, but the exact number was unclear. The new group will be responsible for analyzing the structure of OpenAI, the ChatGPT chatbot developer, which started as a nonprofit in 2015 but later added a for-profit subsidiary.
Who is off the board?
Sam Altman: A co-founder of OpenAI, Mr. Altman had been on its board from the start. One of the key sticking points during negotiations with board members was their opposition to his return to his seat. Mr. Altman fought for several days, two people familiar with the negotiations said. On Tuesday, he relented -- at least for now.
Greg Brockman: A co-founder of OpenAI and the board's chairman until last week, Mr. Brockman quit his role as president on Friday in solidarity with Mr. Altman. He expressed interest in returning to the board during negotiations, but its members rejected that possibility, the two people said. Now he is returning to OpenAI as a senior employee with his title yet to be determined. He celebrated his return with colleagues at OpenAI's offices on Tuesday night. On X, formerly Twitter, he posted a selfie with dozens of employees and said, "we are so back."
Ilya Sutskever: A co-founder and top researcher at OpenAI, Mr. Sutskever was born in the Soviet Union and spent years working at the University of Toronto and later at Google with the world's leading A.I. researchers. He spent eight years as OpenAI's well-regarded chief scientist. But last week, he turned on his colleagues and sided with the board's three independent directors to oust Mr. Altman. Mr. Sutskever told Mr. Altman that he was being pushed out and then stood his ground until Sunday, when OpenAI employees threatened to leave en masse and Mr. Brockman's wife, Anna, urged him to reinstate Mr. Altman. After expressing regret publicly for his decision to turn on Mr. Altman, Mr. Sutskever agreed to step off the board on Tuesday.
Helen Toner: An independent board member since 2021, Ms. Toner joined OpenAI at the suggestion of Holden Karnofsky, a board member who stepped down that year because his wife was affiliated with a rival A.I. company, Anthropic. Ms. Toner is a director of strategy at Georgetown University's Center for Security and Emerging Technology, a think tank, where she writes about national security issues. She agreed to leave the board.
Tasha McCauley: An independent board member since at least 2018, Ms. McCauley is an adjunct senior management scientist at the RAND Corporation, one of the country's oldest think tanks, and married to the actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt. She also serves on the British board of Effective Ventures, a federation of effective altruist organizations. She agreed to leave the board.
Who is on the board?
Adam D'Angelo: An early Facebook executive and a co-founder of the question site Quora, Mr. D'Angelo was one of the board members who ousted Mr. Altman. He was the board's main leader in negotiations and held out for concessions from Mr. Altman during the tense back and forth, two people familiar with the talks said.
Bret Taylor: A fixture of Silicon Valley technical circles and a former Facebook and Salesforce executive, Mr. Taylor was seen during negotiations as a neutral party, three people familiar with the discussions said. He is well regarded among the technorati and is often thought of as a kind of mediator in high-pressure situations. Last year, as a board chairman at Twitter, he was instrumental in negotiating the platform's $ 44 billion sale to Elon Musk.
Lawrence H. Summers: One of the country's most prominent economists, Mr. Summers was a late addition to the list of potential board candidates and critical to ending the impasse over how to proceed because he was believed to be someone who would stand up to Mr. Altman, two of the people familiar with the talks said. Mr. Summers served as Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration and was president of Harvard. He has been speaking out about the potential for artificial intelligence to displace workers, but his reputation has been damaged over the years. While leading Harvard, he said women might lack an intrinsic aptitude for math and science.
Where is the diversity?
Gender and diversity didn't play a role in deliberations about the board, two of the people said. At various points during negotiations, there were permutations of the board that would have kept Ms. Toner or Ms. McCauley involved.
One of the people involved in the negotiations said that the most important thing was to get a resolution, and that achieving one had some constraints, including that the pool of candidates was largely white and male. The provisional board is expected to become more diverse as it expands in the coming months.
Photograph Helen Toner, strategy director at Georgetown University's Center for Security and Emerging Technology, has left OpenAI's board. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROD HARRIS/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Chairman of the board; Employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Chairman of the board Employees

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Altman, Sam

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Georgetown University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/22/technology/open-ai-board-shakeup.html

Title: A Smaller Board, for Now, With Only One Survivor:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 23, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2892448591

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smaller-board-now-with-only-one-survivor/docview/2892448591/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Storied Bridge Gets a Suicide Barrier at Last: [briefing]

Author: Karlamangla, Soumya

Publication info: Karlamangla, Soumya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/storied-bridge-gets-suicide-barrier-at-last/docview/2891611718/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A conversation with John Branch about the $ 217 million project to install steel netting under California's most famous bridge.
The Golden Gate Bridge has been one of the most photogenic structures in the world ever since it was built. The span, which connects San Francisco and Marin County, attracts tourists from all over the world who are delighted by its unusual orange-red color and the fog that always seems to be passing through its cables.
The bridge has also been a place of repeated tragedy. About 2,000 people are known to have jumped to their deaths from the bridge since it was completed in 1937, and since not all jumps are witnessed and not all bodies are found, the true tally is very likely to be higher.
My colleague John Branch wrote in The New York Times recently about the effort to install three and a half miles of stainless steel netting under the bridge as a "suicide deterrent system." The system, which workers are nearly finished installing, has cost $ 217 million and took longer to build than the bridge itself did, John reports.
You can read his full article here.
I spoke to John about his reporting and the decades-long fight by families of people who have jumped to get a barrier installed. Here's our conversation, lightly edited.
The suicides on the Golden Gate are happening on one of the most iconic structures in the world, in one of the most well-known cities on the planet, but they remain pretty much under the radar. Why do you think that is?
A lot of reasons. One is that suicides on the bridge happen one at a time, and people rarely stop and add up the toll, in terms of numbers and heartache. For several decades, the suicides did warrant brief mentions in local newspapers, and there was a sort of countdown as the toll approached 500 (in 1973) and 1,000 (in 1995).
The crass attention around that last countdown, especially, got officials questioning whether the coverage was causing more copycat cases of suicide. Jumps have received less attention since. But from 2011 to 2020, the number of jumpers grew, to more than 30 per year, on average.
Families have been pushing for years for officials to do something. Why did it take so long to act?
In general, it's a combination of two factors: the love for the bridge's design, even of something as seemingly benign as the height of handrails; and a collective misperception, if not downright dismissiveness, about suicide.
Periodic pleas for more to be done -- mainly, a higher railing -- were routinely ignored, mostly because of aesthetics, cost and the questionable effectiveness of any proposed solution. That last one is related to our misunderstanding of suicide, which many had long considered to be someone else's problem and an individual right.
That attitude shifted among decision makers in the early 2000s as family members coalesced to forcefully advocate for something more to be done. They brought humanity to the cause, and could not be ignored.
What was the most surprising thing you learned?
Most surprising is how many people I've found who have been touched by a Golden Gate Bridge suicide; if you don't know someone directly, you know someone who knows someone. I told a good friend that I was working on this story, and he told me something he hadn't before: He was across the bridge when the car in front of him stopped suddenly, and a man got out and leaped over the rail.
I was surprised at the unknown toll for people like that. We think of family members and friends left behind. But since these suicides have happened in a public place, usually during daylight, there are countless people who have witnessed a jump -- driving across the bridge, walking on the sidewalk, sailing in the water below.
Most bridge employees, like painters and ironworkers, have witnessed them. I think of the officers and passers-by who try to stop people, and the Coast Guard members who have pulled bodies from the water. One four-second jump can haunt many, many lifetimes.
If you are having thoughts of suicide, call or text 988 to reach the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources.
The rest of the news
California is bracing this week for a possible atmospheric river, a particularly wet type of storm that struck often last winter and might set the stage for a repeat performance this winter.
More than half a million health care workers in California are expected to see a pay increase in January under a law that Gov. Gavin Newsom signed without a clear estimate of how much it would cost the state, CalMatters reports.
Southern California
State authorities say they believe that arson caused the huge fire that forced the indefinite closure of a section of Interstate 10 in Los Angeles.
Some survivors of the Monterey Park mass shooting are upset that they have been excluded from receiving donated funds, The Los Angeles Times reports.
A San Diego County couple whose 2-year-old daughter drowned at an Airbnb rental home in Mexico announced that they were filing a wrongful-death lawsuit against the company, The Times of San Diego reports.
Central California
The first Denny's in California with a drive-through has opened in Fresno County, The Fresno Bee reports.
Northern California
In a San Francisco courtroom, Paul Pelosi, the husband of Representative Nancy Pelosi, spoke for the first time publicly about the attack last year that left him hospitalized with a cracked skull. His testimony came during the trial of David DePape, who has been accused of bludgeoning Pelosi.
Several buildings in downtown San Francisco, as well as a stalled self-driving car, were spray-painted with pro-Palestinian graffiti during a mass protest that drew thousands of people, The San Francisco Chronicle reports.
A new study from the University of California, San Francisco, finds that American men are likely to die six years sooner than women, The San Francisco Examiner reports.
Where we're traveling
Thanksgiving in a hotel: Here are five places to spend the holiday.
And before you go, some good news
Wine aficionados, get your corkscrews ready.
Vineyards across California Wine Country are nearing the end of their harvest season and, thanks to an optimal growing season, winemakers think this year's vintage could be one of the best in decades.
Wine grapes thrive in temperate conditions with plenty of rain. Cool and damp winters are known to be the best for the fruit, allowing the vines to flower at a natural rate and the grapes to grow slowly and to develop a deep and complex flavor profile.
Such growing conditions have been virtually nonexistent in recent years, with adverse weather events driven by climate change -- a punishing heat wave last year, drought and smoke in previous years -- affecting the crop and sometimes forcing growers to harvest early.
This year, heavy rain at the start of the season and moderate weather throughout have made conditions just right. And the proof is in the pudding, winemakers say, noting high yield and rich purple grapes.
"It's probably the best start that we've ever had that I can remember in 50 years," Andy Beckstoffer, one of the biggest growers in the region, told The San Francisco Chronicle.
Get pouring!
Thanks for reading. I'll be back tomorrow. -- Soumya
P.S. Here's today's Mini Crossword .
Maia Coleman and Briana Scalia contributed to California Today. You can reach the team at CAtoday@nytimes.com .
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox .
Photograph Stainless steel netting to deter suicides on the Golden Gate Bridge in California cost $ 217 million and took longer to build than the bridge itself did.; About 2,000 people are known to have jumped to their deaths since 1937, although the real total is likely higher. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Stainless steel; Tolls; Suicides & suicide attempts

Location: California; Los Angeles California; United States--US; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: San Francisco Chronicle; NAICS: 513110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/14/us/golden-gate-bridge-suicide.html

Title: A Storied Bridge Gets a Suicide Barrier at Last:   [briefing ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 20, 2023

column: California Today

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891611718

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/storied-bridge-gets-suicide-barrier-at-last/docview/2891611718/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Took the Time to Build a Strong Connection: [Society Desk]

Author: Lee, Anna Grace

Publication info: Lee, Anna Grace. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-took-time-build-strong-connection/docview/2891380454/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After a first date, Bruce Patrick made a bold move that alarmed Travis London, who blocked him. They soon fell in love anyway.
Before Travis Kenneth London fell in love with Bruce Douglas Patrick, he had blocked his number.
After matching on the dating app Tinder, they had their first date in December 2021 at Via Emilia 9, an Italian restaurant in Miami Beach. "It was an instant spark for me," said Mr. London, 35, recalling Mr. Patrick's outfit: a fitted black shirt, gray pants, gold necklace. "I thought he looked so cute and handsome."
The feeling was mutual.
"I just thought Travis was gorgeous," Mr. Patrick, 76, said. "We were so comfortable with each other. And despite our different backgrounds and different life experiences, we just felt like we were connected." They spent about three hours talking at the restaurant, and then the date continued late into the night.
The next day, Mr. Patrick sent Mr. London a real estate listing for a house across the street from Mr. London's. Mr. Patrick was thinking of buying it because he lived two hours away in Naples, Fla., and he wanted to live closer to Mr. London so they could get to know each other. He figured he would rent it out on Airbnb when he wasn't there.
For Mr. London, this was a big red flag. "I'm like, This guy's crazy!" Mr. London said. So he blocked Mr. Patrick's phone number and cut off communication on Tinder and WhatsApp and over email. (Ultimately, Mr. Patrick did not buy the house.)
About two months later, Mr. Patrick sent Mr. London a message on Instagram, asking what he had done wrong. Mr. London told him that the idea to buy the house was "too much too soon," and it scared him.
Mr. Patrick apologized and explained that he was not the best at dating. He had been married twice before to women and had only come out recently. "When I grew up in Texas, you couldn't really be gay," Mr. Patrick said. "So I repressed it." In 2011, he and his wife of 30 years -- with whom he has a daughter -- divorced.
He asked Mr. London if they could start over. Mr. London said yes -- but only as friends.
So they began spending time together. For Mr. London's birthday in July 2022, Mr. Patrick invited him to Fire Island, N.Y. And over time, the friendship became romantic. That year, Mr. Patrick spent Thanksgiving with Mr. London's family, and the two officially became a couple.
They hit another milestone in April 2023, when Mr. London decided to move in with Mr. Patrick, who was splitting his time between Naples and New York City. Mr. London's home in Miami was special to him: Its interior design had been featured in magazines such as Architectural Digest and House Beautiful. He runs his own interior design business, Studio London Co., in Miami and Savannah, Ga.
But he was ready to leave Miami and his home behind to be with Mr. Patrick.
Mr. Patrick offered a compromise instead: He would sell his home in Naples and the two would live together in Miami, while also maintaining homes in New York and Savannah.
In July 2023, Mr. Patrick proposed to Mr. London during a trip to the south of France. They were with friends in a restaurant in Cannes, and their friends asked when the two were marrying. "I said, 'Do you want me to get down on one knee? I can't,"' Mr. Patrick recalled, laughing. When Mr. Patrick stood up to propose, Mr. London asked him why he wanted to marry him. Mr. Patrick replied, "Because I know you will always take care of me."
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
Mr. Patrick is a retired tax lawyer for Exxon and other companies. He grew up in Fort Worth, Texas, and graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a bachelor's degree in political science and a law degree. He also received a Master of Laws in taxation from New York University. He sings in MasterVoices and the Oratorio Society of New York, both choruses.
Mr. London grew up in Los Angeles and was previously a chef. He trained at the International Culinary Center, formerly known as the French Culinary Institute, in New York.
The two were married on Nov. 4 at their home in Miami in a poolside ceremony. Blake Lopez, a friend of the couple who is a Universal Life Church minister, officiated.
Mr. London wore a custom wedding outfit by Jerome LaMaar and a crown by Soull Kehinde Ogun of L'Enchanteur. For the wedding, it was important to the couple that they work primarily with queer artists and vendors to celebrate the community that helped them realize a dream they had never thought would come true.
"I hope we send a message that age doesn't matter," Mr. Patrick said, "and you can never be too old to come out and live your true life."
Photograph Travis London, Bruce Patrick (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUNOZ PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST18.

Subject: Restaurants; Interior design

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Texas; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/17/style/bruce-patrick-travis-london-wedding.html

Title: They Took the Time to Build a Strong Connection:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 19, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891380454

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-took-time-build-strong-connection/docview/2891380454/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Window of Opportunity Is Wider Than You Think: [Style Desk]

Author: Mckinney, Morgan

Publication info: Mckinney, Morgan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/window-opportunity-is-wider-than-you-think/docview/2888773587/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: We only had a few weeks together. Why did that allow us to fall so hard so fast?
Last year, two days before my 29th birthday, I slipped on ice at the restaurant where I worked and sprained my ankle. Told to stay home and recover, I quickly grew bored and did what any single person with sudden downtime would do -- re-downloaded my dating apps. Within 24 hours, I matched with Motorcycle Man.
He was recently divorced (after a brief marriage) and riding his motorcycle around the country on some journey of self-discovery, doing his remote technology job in a different city every month.
Meaning he would only be in Memphis for a few more weeks.
And he had it going on: incredibly good looking, annoyingly charming, with some serious cool guy energy (it was mostly the leather jacket, but still).
We met for a drink that first night, which turned into dinner, which turned into more drinks, which turned into a drunken night at his Airbnb. I was shocked when he called the next day.
"I had a really great time last night," he said. "What are your thoughts on going out again tonight?"
"Oh, I'd love to see you again!"
"Obviously," he said.
All right. Calm down, Han Solo. His overconfidence both attracted and exasperated me. Experience had hardened me against romance. It didn't matter how delightful or endearing or handsome I found him. I was not going to be the silly girl who fell for a man on a motorcycle.
You see, I have been chronically unlucky in love, a classic self-sabotager. I have a habit of eagerly searching for reasons to reject men who court me, nit-picking them into oblivion. And when I got lonely enough, I would consult my list of favorite exes for some make-believe being in love.
I have prided myself in being made of romantic wrought iron. You can't break me open, no sir. So I was irritated to feel myself getting pulled in by this man.
We took his motorcycle to a soccer game downtown, and he teased me for squeezing him tighter than anyone ever had on a ride. I told him that I had been thrown off a bike before, and I was afraid. He gripped my thigh at every red light as if to say: I'm still here. You're still here. Everything is going to be OK.
We went to brunch on a riverboat, the breeze off the Mississippi lifting my dress as we drank pineapple mimosas on the upper deck. There was never a time his hands were not brushing the stray hair from my neck. Never a time we weren't touching somewhere.
We went to a strip club where the dancers told us how beautiful I was, how lucky he was to be there with me. Two couples lap dances and $ 600 later, we took an Uber home and fell tangled into bed without showering.
We cooked dinner together, slipping dangerously into the more domestic half of our month together. He shelled pistachios while I braised white beans in Chablis, and we discovered our mutual love of cooking to French jazz.
We talked about our dead fathers and difficult childhoods. We pinkie promised not to fall in love as we shared salted caramel ice cream. He spoon-fed me the bite he said was the best in the whole cup, saying he wanted me to have it.
On his last day in town, we went to Graceland to pay homage to Elvis. It was the final thing he wanted to do in the city, and I was happy to share it with him. We walked, his arm wrapped tightly around my shoulders, through the showrooms filled with classic cars, jewel-studded white leather jumpsuits and green-velvet-lined private jets.
I went to the restroom while he waited in line for the mansion tour shuttle, and an elderly tourist tapped me on the shoulder as I was drying my hands. "You and that boy outside?" she said. "I've been watching you. You're a beautiful couple. And it's so nice to see two young people so in love. You don't see that anymore."
I didn't know what to say. What was there to say? That he was leaving tomorrow? That there was no way we could be in love because something as flimsy as a pinkie promise or a few thousand miles stood in the way?
"Thank you," I said. But I couldn't stop thinking about her words as he held my hand in both of his on the shuttle bus, drawing circles in my palms with his thumb.
Later, we took the narrow, mirrored stairs down to Elvis's TV room. It too glittered with mirrors, and I suddenly found myself overwhelmed at our reflections staring back at us from 20 different angles. Reflected across the panoramic walls, this was the first time that month that I really looked at us. It was the first time I saw what other people saw, what that woman saw, when they looked at us.
With his cheap tour headset on, he was looking around the room and gently massaging my shoulders while John Stamos told us about the cost of the building, the extensive bar and Elvis's favorite TV shows. I saw how much taller he was than me, how he stood so near behind me in the way that says: I don't want to be anywhere that isn't close to you. I saw the smile on my face, the beaming that came from it.
We looked happy. Like we were any other couple enjoying a Saturday afternoon in a lifetime of Saturday afternoons together.
I realized then what I was going to lose in less than 24 hours. I told myself this was only temporary; he was passing through. Tomorrow he would move on to a new city and a new person. We would never have an anniversary or a dog or a fight. I stood reflected on all sides in that room of mirrors and mourned the life we were not meant to share.
Then, I put it away. If I only had a few more hours to be in love, I wanted to live them fully. I wanted to exist in a state of happiness with someone without dwelling on when or how it would end. I didn't want to waste the little time we had consumed by the sadness I felt in my throat or pretending that he was a gigantic mistake I should have run from. I didn't want to be prideful anymore.
So I put it all away. We moved to the next room of the tour, his hands still squeezing my shoulders. That night I ran my fingers through his hair. I let him hold me closer as we fell asleep together for the last time.
Despite what my friends and mother kept telling me, I knew he wasn't coming back. After all, we had made a promise not to fall in love. That promise may have been an enormous lie on my part, but that isn't the point. I had the opportunity to be fully enmeshed with a kind person who had a more open heart than he wanted to admit, and I felt grateful for it. I started writing again after a long period of dormancy, and I was thankful for that too.
I felt grateful to be able to sit in the full sunshine of a temporary love affair without it destroying me in the end. It has taken time, but I've finally learned that the virtues of owning a soft and breathable heart are immeasurable when you live in a time and country like this one that is so full of death and reckoning.
I hoped Motorcycle Man would stay safe on his journey. I hoped he would find what he was looking for in life. I hoped I would be able to keep this beauty that I found within myself. And I hoped that there would be another life where we got to enjoy arguing about paint colors for a kitchen. That other me would want bright cerulean and that other him would want a dark sage green, and we would be able to meet somewhere in the middle.
I hoped for all these things, and I even allowed myself to hope for a little more. But if experience in love has taught me anything, it's this: When a man on a motorcycle tells you that he's going to ride off into the sunset and forget about you, you should believe him.
And I did believe him. Except he didn't forget about me. And I didn't forget about him. Until one day this summer when he came back to Memphis with no intention of leaving. And ever since, everything I had hardened my heart against for so long -- the love I didn't want to let in -- has become my life.
Morgan McKinney is a copywriter in Memphis, Tenn.
Modern Love can be reached at modernlove@nytimes.com.
To find previous Modern Love essays, Tiny Love Stories and podcast episodes, visit our archive.
Want more from Modern Love? Watch the TV series; sign up for the newsletter; or listen to the podcast on iTunes, Spotify or Google Play. We also have swag at the NYT Store and two books, "Modern Love: True Stories of Love, Loss, and Redemption" and "Tiny Love Stories: True Tales of Love in 100 Words or Less."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST6.

Subject: Motorcycles; Love

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/10/style/modern-love-nothing-could-happen-between-us.html

Title: Window of Opportunity Is Wider Than You Think:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 12, 2023

column: Modern Love

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2888773587

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/window-opportunity-is-wider-than-you-think/docview/2888773587/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2886771283/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Agriculture
World Wine Output
To Be Lowest in 60 Years
World wine production is expected to fall to its lowest level in 60 years in 2023 because of poor harvests in the Southern Hemisphere and in some major European producers, the International Organisation of Vine and Wine said on Tuesday.
In initial projections, the group pegged world wine output, excluding juices and musts, at between 241.7 million and 246.6 million hectoliters, with a midrange estimate of 244.1 hectoliters.
This would be 7 percent lower than last year and the smallest since 1961 when it had fallen to 214 hectoliters, the group said. A hectoliter is the equivalent of 133 standard wine bottles.
The group expects Italian wine production to drop 12 percent to 44 hectoliters, its lowest level since the poor harvest of 2017.
Italy will lose its position as the world's largest wine producer, with France set to reclaim the number one spot for the first time in nine years. REUTERS
TRAVEL
Italy Orders Tax Seizure
From Airbnb in Europe
An Italian judge has ordered the seizure of 779.5 million euros ( $ 836.40 million) from the short-term rentals platform Airbnb's European headquarters in Ireland for alleged tax evasion, the Milan prosecutor's office said on Monday.
The probe concerns Airbnb's alleged failure to withhold 21 percent of landlords' rental income and pay it to Italian tax authorities, as required by a 2017 law, prosecutors in the northern Italian city said in a statement.
Three people who held managerial roles between 2017 and 2021, the period covering the alleged violation, are under investigation, the statement added.
The company was "surprised and disappointed" by the decision and said it acted in full compliance with the law, an Airbnb representative said.
The company had unsuccessfully challenged the 2017 law. REUTERS
LABOR
Bangladesh Raises Wage
For Garment Workers
Authorities in Bangladesh announced a new salary structure on Tuesday for protesting garment factory workers, with a 56 percent increase in the monthly minimum wage to $ 113 from the previous $ 75, a decision rejected by some workers' groups as too small.
Monnujan Sufian, the state minister for labor and employment, announced the decision after a meeting of a government-formed wage board made up of representatives of factory owners and workers. She said the new pay structure would take effect Dec. 1.
Critics say the influential factory owners should do more for the workers.
The decision came after weeks of violent protests by workers demanding a $ 208 monthly minimum wage. Workers have demonstrated in the streets, attacked factories, fought with police and burned vehicles.
The last increase in the minimum wage was announced in 2018. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Reuters and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY FLORENCE LO/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Minimum wage; Rentals; Wages & salaries; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Minimum wage Wages & salaries Factories

Location: Italy; Bangladesh

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/06/business/08bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2886771283

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2886771283/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Community of the Broom: [Style Desk]

Author: Cacciola, Scott

Publication info: Cacciola, Scott. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-broom/docview/2885974514/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: New Zealand's curling team wanted to train with the "big boys" in Canada, and a group of enthusiastic seniors has provided housing, a cheering section and lots of advice.
Ben Smith never could have imagined spending the winter at a retirement home in Calgary, Alberta, sipping Caesar cocktails with three of his best friends -- Anton Hood, Brett Sargon and Hunter Walker -- while their octogenarian neighbors play bridge and tabletop shuffleboard.
In fact, the four men, who are professional curlers from New Zealand working on their Olympic aspirations in one of the world's most celebrated curling hotbeds, have made themselves at home since moving into the Chartwell Colonel Belcher Retirement Residence, a senior living community on Calgary's west side. They are the building's newest tenants -- and its youngest.
"That's all the women talk about," said Bill Dench, 67, a retired letter carrier and Zamboni driver who lives down the hall.
The story of how a team of young men wound up occupying two suites at a Canadian retirement home -- where the weekly activities calendar includes bridge lessons and cupcake socials, where the average age is 84, and where the first sitting for dinner is at 4:30 p.m. sharp -- involves luck, economics and word-of-mouth generosity among Calgary-area curlers. In the process, the arrangement has showcased the virtues of intergenerational living.
"Oh, we really were just shocked," said Bertha Esplen, 97. "We really were. Because all of a sudden we get curlers from New Zealand in our building. Man, that was great. We couldn't wait for them to come."
Since arriving in September, the team has financed its curling dreams by landing day jobs -- Mr. Smith, 24, for example, works as a plumber four days a week -- while acclimating to life in a sprawling community of surrogate grandparents and well-intentioned back-seat curlers.
At least one resident has asked for a practice schedule so that he can taxi over to the Calgary Curling Club, where the team trains and Mr. Hood, 23, moonlights as an assistant ice technician, and offer advice. ("Won't cost you nothing!" he told Mr. Hood.) Others have turned up at the team's weeknight matches.
"We'll walk off the ice, and they'll go, 'Why did you play that shot?"' Mr. Sargon, 30, said.
They nitpick because they care. That became clear to Mr. Sargon a few weeks ago when he joined Mr. Hood at a curling tournament in Okotoks, about 25 miles south of Calgary. As soon as their match began, Mr. Sargon and Mr. Hood realized that they had their own fan club. Fourteen residents, armed with bag lunches and homemade signs, had made the trip via charter bus to cheer them on in a loss to a team led by Mike McEwen, one of the top curlers in Canada.
"They put on a great show," said Linda Smith, 74, who had a front-row seat. "I mean, Mike McEwen could've really whipped them."
'Playing Against the Big Boys'
On a recent weekday morning, the New Zealanders piled into their official vehicle, a 2012 Dodge Grand Caravan with more than 98,000 kilometers on the odometer, for the short drive over to the curling club for a practice session. Mr. Hood, the team's skip, or captain, got behind the wheel.
After some light stretching, the team took the ice wearing matching sweatshirts that read, "Team Hood: A Bunch of Kiwis Trying to Fly." Greeted by a series of 1980s power ballads that blared from the club's speakers, they began to work on their throws.
For those unfamiliar: Curling is a winter sport that involves pushing heavy granite rocks down a long sheet of ice toward a target. And while it is hugely popular in Canada, curling does have some historical ties to New Zealand. Miners from Scotland brought an outdoor version of the game with them to the country during the gold rush of the 19th century, and it has persisted as a popular activity whenever the ponds on New Zealand's South Island are cold enough to form a thick slab of ice at the surface.
"It's more of a traditional game," Mr. Hood said. "There's a bit of drinking. The skips are grumpier."
Finding the game was easy enough for Mr. Hood, Mr. Smith and Mr. Walker, 21, all of whom grew up in Naseby, New Zealand, a small resort town that, for many years, was home to the Southern Hemisphere's only dedicated indoor curling rink. Mr. Sargon, who is from Auckland, learned the game on hockey ice.
"You get the Zamboni over it and cut it as best you can," he recalled.
Mr. Sargon soon met the others through curling circles and formed a team. But to truly grasp the sport's many nuances and reach their long-term goal of qualifying for the 2026 Winter Olympics in Italy -- a process largely based on results at the world championships -- Mr. Sargon and his teammates knew that they would need to immerse themselves in the game. That meant training in Canada.
"There's basic strategy," he said, "and then there's playing against the big boys."
The team spent several weeks training in Calgary last year ahead of the inaugural Pan Continental Curling Championships, which the city hosted. Mr. Sargon said he and his teammates enjoyed the experience -- "The ice was great," he said -- even though they had to hopscotch among Airbnb rentals, and a house blew up down the street from one of them. (City officials suspected a natural gas leak.)
The explosion was not enough to deter the team from wanting to return this fall. Over the summer, Mr. Hood was chatting with Kim Forge, who sits on the board of the World Curling Federation, when he mentioned the team's plans. The challenge, he told her, was finding affordable short-term housing in Calgary.
While curling has expanded its global reach since it returned as a full-fledged Olympic event in 1998, the sport has retained its tight-knit feel. Curlers want to support fellow curlers, and Ms. Forge was relying on that spirit of camaraderie when she posted a message on Facebook soliciting help from the Calgary curling community in locating "very cheap rent" for Team Hood.
"They are the best bunch of young men and I fully endorse them," Ms. Forge wrote.
The post soon found its way to Cassandra Murray, a retirement living consultant at Chartwell Colonel Belcher who is a former competitive curler. She was brainstorming with Christine Taylor, a colleague, when they came up with a potential solution.
"You probably won't want to do this, but we do have a couple of spare rooms," Ms. Murray wrote the team via Facebook Messenger.
It should be noted that while Team Hood has a couple of sponsorships -- Mr. Sargon recently hammered out a deal with Downhill Karting, a Calgary-based go-kart course -- curling is not an especially lucrative profession. The four athletes are paying their own way to live and train in Calgary until they leave in March for the world championships in Schaffhausen, Switzerland.
So when Ms. Murray offered them a place to stay for free, aside from a few dollars a month for utilities, they were thrilled. They also were glad to find a situation where they could blend more easily with the fabric of the city than they had last winter. What better way to do that than to share a roof with some of Calgary's most esteemed residents?
"We thought it could be quite fun," Mr. Sargon said.
Karl Berg, a director of regional operations and sales for Chartwell, endorsed the idea, citing a renewed emphasis on "socialization" among its residents in the wake of the pandemic. He also was aware of a successful intergenerational living experiment in the Netherlands, where the presence of a few college students in a nursing home gave their older neighbors a greater sense of connection to the outside world and increased their mental stimulation.
"It's been awesome watching people's faces light up when we talk to them," Mr. Sargon said, "and now we're really starting to get know more of them. Everyone buys into what we're trying to do as well, which is cool. Everyone wants to tell us their curling story."
Mr. Berg recalled preparing for the team's arrival in September when he popped down to the Mad Trapper, the residence's in-house pub. He could sense excitement in the building. One woman was proudly sharing a decades-old newspaper clipping that featured a photograph of her husband throwing a curling rock.
"I thought that was pretty cool," Mr. Berg said. "And then this gentleman sitting next to us goes, 'Oh, I know your husband. I played him once. I mopped the floor with him."'
Mr. Sargon was the first of the New Zealanders to show up. Ms. Murray told him that his timing was perfect.
"Happy hour is at 2 o'clock, if you're interested," she said.
"Say no more," Mr. Sargon said.
A Productive Partnership
Anyone who knows Ms. Esplen knows that she has a favorite curler: Brad Gushue, the golden boy of Canadian curling and a two-time Olympic medalist. Mr. Gushue is so popular, he has a highway named after him. Over post-practice coffee and cookies at the residence, Mr. Sargon noted that Team Hood was scheduled to face Mr. Gushue at a coming tournament.
"Bertha told us she'd cheer for us in every other match," Mr. Sargon said, laughing.
Ms. Esplen even had her own brush with celebrity thanks to the New Zealanders.
"I was on CBC!" she said, referring to a recent television news segment on the team.
Wary of overstaying their welcome, the team members had originally planned on moving out in January so they could house-sit in the suburbs for the remainder of their time in Canada. They reconsidered after hearing from concerned neighbors.
"We were getting told not to drive in the winter if we could avoid it," Mr. Hood said. Their current commute to the curling club is very short.
So they asked Ms. Murray if they could stay. No problem, she said.
"They've been amazing," she said. "There is so much life in the building."
The team, meanwhile, has augmented its training by hiring Carolyn McRorie as a part-time coach. Ms. McRorie was a member of the 2010 Canadian women's team that won the silver medal at the 2010 Winter Olympics, and Mr. Hood described her as a master technician.
The team put some of her lessons to use at the end of a long day, winning a match in an evening league at the Calgary Curling Club in front of a knowledgeable crowd.
"I can't believe how much curl there is in this ice," one spectator said.
The next morning, Mr. Hood and Mr. Smith left for their day jobs -- but not before they volunteered Mr. Sargon and Mr. Walker to paint a fence at the residence.
"They told us it would be a two-hour job," Mr. Walker said. "It's not a two-hour job!"
But the sun was warm, and by 2 p.m. they felt they had earned a break. So they decamped for happy hour at the Mad Trapper, where a crowd had already gathered for a performance by Jim Baxter, an area musician. Mr. Sargon and Mr. Walker grabbed seats at a table toward the back.
Jennifer Erno, an activity aide, asked if they were ready for a couple of Molsons from the cash bar. Mr. Sargon reached for his wallet before he realized he had left it in his room.
"That's OK," Ms. Erno said. "We know where you live."
Photograph Mr. Hood, the team's skip, or cap- tain, got behind the wheel. After some light stretching, the team took the ice wearing match- ing sweatshirts that read, "Team Hood: A Bunch of Kiwis Trying to Fly." Greeted by a series of 1980s (ST8-ST9); Top, the average age at Chartwell Colonel Belcher Retirement Residence is 84. Above, Brett Sargon sat with Bertha Esplen, a curling fan who's 97. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD KOROL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Retirement homes

Location: New Zealand; Canada; Calgary Alberta Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/02/style/new-zealand-curling-retirement-home.html

Title: The Community of the Broom:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 5, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885974514

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/community-broom/docview/2885974514/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Wild Ride and Dizzying Crash For Reluctant King of Crypto: [National Desk]

Author: Streitfeld, David

Publication info: Streitfeld, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-ride-dizzying-crash-reluctant-king-crypto/docview/2885704490/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The crypto king gambled that his trading platform would make him a benevolent trillionaire. But after a fraud conviction, all bets are off.
There comes a moment in the development of a new technology when the hype is so common it passes for common sense. Lawyers, accountants and regulators are nowhere to be found. Investors insist entrepreneurs take their money. The world trembles on the brink of change.
For dot-coms, the moment was 1999. For artificial intelligence, it was just over nine months ago. For cryptocurrency, it was 2017.
Six years ago, Sam Bankman-Fried knew little about alternative currencies. But he correctly bet there were huge opportunities in grabbing a tiny piece of millions of crypto trades. In the blink of an eye, he was lauded as being worth $ 23 billion. Only Mark Zuckerberg had accumulated so much wealth so young.
The Facebook co-founder has his critics, but he looks like Thomas Edison next to Mr. Bankman-Fried. After a speedy trial in Manhattan federal court, the onetime crypto king, now 31, was convicted on Thursday of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy involving his companies FTX and Alameda Research.
Mr. Bankman-Fried once partied with stars and big shots, doled out fortunes in looted funds to politicians and himself, was acclaimed as the next Warren Buffett, employed his friends and made them rich for a while, was courted by the news media that printed his most banal comments. For a time, everyone loved Sam Bankman-Fried -- with the apparent exception of Sam Bankman-Fried.
"I am, and for most of my adult life have been, sad." That plaintive statement appears at the end of testimony Mr. Bankman-Fried had hoped to give Congress last winter before his arrest scuttled his plans. He was onto something.
In photographs from his heyday, Mr. Bankman-Fried always looked awkward, embarrassed and as if he would rather be playing a video game, even when Gisele Bündchen had an arm around him. Everyone kept insisting he was off-the-charts brilliant, the entrepreneur who would create the future. Maybe he knew better.
As journalists -- and now prosecutors -- have made clear, FTX and Alameda were run by a group of hapless young people who did not have the required skills, maturity or patience. Those who actually had a moral compass and sensed something was wrong soon peeled off, leaving a core crew who drifted -- or perhaps dived -- into trouble.
"When I started working at Alameda, I don't think I would have believed you if you told me I would be sending false balance sheets to our lenders or taking customer money, but over time it was something I became more comfortable with," Caroline Ellison, Mr. Bankman-Fried's colleague and sometime girlfriend, testified during the trial.
When Ms. Ellison started working at Alameda, something called the blockchain was going to transform everything, somehow. Silicon Valley poured billions into crypto, seeking out those like Mr. Bankman-Fried who got in early and appeared smart.
Sequoia Capital, a top venture firm that has funded Apple, Airbnb, Instagram and WhatsApp, all but begged Mr. Bankman-Fried to take its money during the mad rush when crypto was shiny and new. The FTX founder did. Sequoia then commissioned a very long celebration of Mr. Bankman-Fried by Adam Fisher, a longtime Silicon Valley writer who fell hard for the man whose fans called him S.B.F.
"After my interview with S.B.F., I was convinced: I was talking to a future trillionaire," Mr. Fisher wrote. He added: "The FTX competitive advantage? Ethical behavior."
Less than two months after the interview was published, FTX collapsed. Sequoia put a note at the top of the story saying this was an "unexpected turn of events." It later took the story down and wrote off its $ 214 million investment in the exchange. Sequoia and Mr. Fisher declined to comment.
The central myth of Silicon Valley is that techies are here to save the world. If they get insanely rich in the process, well, that only proves how great their idea was in the first place.
This was the appeal of Elizabeth Holmes and her blood-testing company, Theranos. She was young, female and attractive, which looked good on the covers of magazines. But the notion that really propelled her to fame and fortune was that she was a sort of high-tech Florence Nightingale, working all night to refine medical technology that would improve people's health. (The truth was that her technology didn't work and placed customers at risk by giving them unreliable results.)
FTX allowed people to bet on cryptocurrencies. It was, in essence, a casino. It is difficult for even the most sympathetic journalist to portray a casino as a savior of humanity, so the focus of the stories was always on Mr. Bankman-Fried himself.
He calculated the odds on everything -- he thought there was a 5 percent chance he would become president of the United States. He figured he would help humanity by making a fortune and then giving it all away, a philosophy known as effective altruism. The details didn't matter. As a fawning Forbes profile put it in 2021: "He's a mercenary, dedicated to making as much money as possible (he doesn't really care how) solely so he can give it away (he doesn't really know to whom, or when)."
During the trial, it emerged that Mr. Bankman-Fried had spent $ 15 million on private plane travel. He never did much to disguise the fact that he lived with some of his FTX pals in a $ 35 million penthouse. The question of whether these young people should be sleeping on the beach instead of living the high life if they were truly following the doctrine of effective altruism never seemed to get asked.
Mr. Bankman-Fried was happiest when playing video games, which he did as often as he could. Even as he talked to Sequoia over Zoom about his grand plans to make a financial super-app inside FTX and therefore obliterate every bank in the world, he was playing League of Legends.
Again and again, he conveyed his contempt for what he was doing, and he seemed to implore the authorities to take a closer look at his companies. Take, for instance, this statement he made in August 2021 in one of his many interviews: "If there's anything we're doing that a regulator doesn't want, you don't have to sue us. Just reach out and tell us what you want."
The magic of starting a company just as a boom is beginning is that the bar is low. When Sequoia was looking for a crypto exchange to invest in, FTX was "Goldilocks-perfect," according to its profile. One big reason: "There was no concerted effort to skirt the law." Hard to find a bar much lower than that.
Mr. Bankman-Fried tried to warn everyone.
"By number of Ponzi schemes, there are way more in crypto, kinda per capita, than in other places," he told The Financial Times in May 2022.
It didn't matter. Investors, customers, journalists all saw the genius they were told was there. And if they had the slightest doubt, Mr. Bankman-Fried had an ace: His parents were Stanford law professors.
"He has two parents that are compliance lawyers," said the "Shark Tank" star Kevin O'Leary, who was both a promotional spokesman for FTX and an investor in it. "If there is ever a place I can be and I am not going to get in trouble, it is going to be at FTX."
Mr. O'Leary may not have known that Joseph Bankman, a tax law specialist and clinical psychologist, and Barbara Fried, a professor emeritus at Stanford Law School, had their attention elsewhere. According to a lawsuit filed by the bankrupt FTX, their son gave them, through FTX, a $ 16 million home in the Bahamas, $ 10 million in cash and many other things. Lawyers for the couple called the claims "completely false."
In that glowing Sequoia profile, Mr. Bankman-Fried said: "I'm very skeptical of books. I don't want to say no book is ever worth reading, but I actually do believe something pretty close to that." He didn't like movies, either.
It's impossible to read the sad saga of Mr. Bankman-Fried without thinking he, and many of those around him, would have been better off if they had spent less time at math camp and more time in English class. Sometimes in books, the characters find their moral compass; in the best books, the reader does, too.
As I read about Mr. Bankman-Fried, the historical drama "A Man for All Seasons," once a staple for high school students, kept coming to mind. It's about a man who knows right from wrong and a man who doesn't. Richard Rich is a little like Mr. Bankman-Fried: a young man with huge ambitions and no scruples. He begs Thomas More for a place at court. More tells Rich he would be a good teacher.
Who would know if I were a good teacher? Rich asks scornfully.
"You, your pupils, your friends, God," More replies. "Not a bad public, that."
Rich rejects the quiet life, betrays More and is rewarded with a post in Wales. Viewers are given to understand that he loses his soul. Mr. Bankman-Fried rejected the quiet life, betrayed nearly everyone he knew -- and ended up with neither wealth nor Wales.
Photograph Sam Bankman-Fried in 2022. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIKA P. RODRIGUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); According to FTX's bankruptcy filing, Joseph Bankman-Fried and Barbara Fried got lavish gifts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: Altruism; Attorneys; Books; Trials; Digital currencies

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys Digital currencies

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

Company / organization: Name: FTX Exchange; NAICS: 523160

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/02/technology/sam-bankman-fried-rise-crash.html

Title: Wild Ride and Dizzying Crash For Reluctant King of Crypto:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 4, 2023

column: News Analysis

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2885704490

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-ride-dizzying-crash-reluctant-king-crypto/docview/2885704490/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Wild Ride and Dizzying Crash for Reluctant King of Crypto

Author: Streitfeld, David

Publication info: Streitfeld, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-ride-dizzying-crash-reluctant-king-crypto/docview/2885667525/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — There comes a moment in the development of a new technology when the hype is so common it passes for common sense. Lawyers, accountants and regulators are nowhere to be found. Investors insist entrepreneurs take their money. The world trembles on the brink of change.
For dot-coms, the moment was 1999. For artificial intelligence, it was just over nine months ago. For cryptocurrency, it was 2017.
Six years ago, Sam Bankman-Fried knew little about alternative currencies. But he correctly bet there were huge opportunities in grabbing a tiny piece of millions of crypto trades. In the blink of an eye, he was lauded as being worth $23 billion. Only Mark Zuckerberg had accumulated so much wealth so young.
The Facebook co-founder has his critics, but he looks like Thomas Edison next to Bankman-Fried. After a speedy trial in Manhattan federal court, the onetime crypto king, now 31, was convicted on Thursday of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy involving his companies FTX and Alameda Research.
Bankman-Fried once partied with stars and big shots, doled out fortunes in looted funds to politicians and himself, was acclaimed as the next Warren Buffett, employed his friends and made them rich for a while, was courted by the news media that printed his most banal comments. For a time, everyone loved Sam Bankman-Fried — with the apparent exception of Sam Bankman-Fried.
“I am, and for most of my adult life have been, sad.” That plaintive statement appears at the end of testimony Bankman-Fried had hoped to give Congress last winter before his arrest scuttled his plans. He was onto something.
In photographs from his heyday, Bankman-Fried always looked awkward, embarrassed and as if he would rather be playing a video game, even when Gisele Bündchen had an arm around him. Everyone kept insisting he was off-the-charts brilliant, the entrepreneur who would create the future. Maybe he knew better.
As journalists — and now prosecutors — have made clear, FTX and Alameda were run by a group of hapless young people who did not have the required skills, maturity or patience. Those who actually had a moral compass and sensed something was wrong soon peeled off, leaving a core crew who drifted — or perhaps dived — into trouble.
“When I started working at Alameda, I don’t think I would have believed you if you told me I would be sending false balance sheets to our lenders or taking customer money, but over time it was something I became more comfortable with,” Caroline Ellison, Bankman-Fried’s colleague and sometime girlfriend, testified during the trial.
When Ellison started working at Alameda, something called the blockchain was going to transform everything, somehow. Silicon Valley poured billions into crypto, seeking out those like Bankman-Fried who got in early and appeared smart.
Sequoia Capital, a top venture firm that has funded Apple, Airbnb, Instagram and WhatsApp, all but begged Bankman-Fried to take its money during the mad rush when crypto was shiny and new. The FTX founder did. Sequoia then commissioned a very long celebration of Bankman-Fried by Adam Fisher, a longtime Silicon Valley writer who fell hard for the man whose fans called him SBF.
“After my interview with S.B.F., I was convinced: I was talking to a future trillionaire,” Fisher wrote. He added: “The FTX competitive advantage? Ethical behavior.”
Less than two months after the interview was published, FTX collapsed. Sequoia put a note at the top of the story saying this was an “unexpected turn of events.” It later took the story down and wrote off its $214 million investment in the exchange. Sequoia and Fisher declined to comment.
The central myth of Silicon Valley is that techies are here to save the world. If they get insanely rich in the process, well, that only proves how great their idea was in the first place.
This was the appeal of Elizabeth Holmes and her blood-testing company, Theranos. She was young, female and attractive, which looked good on the covers of magazines. But the notion that really propelled her to fame and fortune was that she was a sort of high-tech Florence Nightingale, working all night to refine medical technology that would improve people’s health. (The truth was that her technology didn’t work and placed customers at risk by giving them unreliable results.)
FTX allowed people to bet on cryptocurrencies. It was, in essence, a casino. It is difficult for even the most sympathetic journalist to portray a casino as a savior of humanity, so the focus of the stories was always on Bankman-Fried himself.
He calculated the odds on everything — he thought there was a 5% chance he would become president of the United States. He figured he would help humanity by making a fortune and then giving it all away, a philosophy known as effective altruism. The details didn’t matter. As a fawning Forbes profile put it in 2021: “He’s a mercenary, dedicated to making as much money as possible (he doesn’t really care how) solely so he can give it away (he doesn’t really know to whom, or when).”
During the trial, it emerged that Bankman-Fried had spent $15 million on private plane travel. He never did much to disguise the fact that he lived with some of his FTX pals in a $35 million penthouse. The question of whether these young people should be sleeping on the beach instead of living the high life if they were truly following the doctrine of effective altruism never seemed to get asked.
Bankman-Fried was happiest when playing video games, which he did as often as he could. Even as he talked to Sequoia over Zoom about his grand plans to make a financial super-app inside FTX and therefore obliterate every bank in the world, he was playing League of Legends.
Again and again, he conveyed his contempt for what he was doing, and he seemed to implore the authorities to take a closer look at his companies. Take, for instance, this statement he made in August 2021 in one of his many interviews: “If there’s anything we’re doing that a regulator doesn’t want, you don’t have to sue us. Just reach out and tell us what you want.”
The magic of starting a company just as a boom is beginning is that the bar is low. When Sequoia was looking for a crypto exchange to invest in, FTX was “Goldilocks-perfect,” according to its profile. One big reason: “There was no concerted effort to skirt the law.” Hard to find a bar much lower than that.
Bankman-Fried tried to warn everyone.
“By number of Ponzi schemes, there are way more in crypto, kinda per capita, than in other places,” he told The Financial Times in May 2022.
It didn’t matter. Investors, customers, journalists all saw the genius they were told was there. And if they had the slightest doubt, Bankman-Fried had an ace: His parents were Stanford law professors.
“He has two parents that are compliance lawyers,” said “Shark Tank” star Kevin O’Leary, who was both a promotional spokesperson for FTX and an investor in it. “If there is ever a place I can be and I am not going to get in trouble, it is going to be at FTX.”
O’Leary may not have known that Joseph Bankman, a tax law specialist and clinical psychologist, and Barbara Fried, a professor emeritus at Stanford Law School, had their attention elsewhere. According to a lawsuit filed by the bankrupt FTX, their son gave them, through FTX, a $16 million home in the Bahamas, $10 million in cash and many other things. Lawyers for the couple called the claims “completely false.”
In that glowing Sequoia profile, Bankman-Fried said: “I’m very skeptical of books. I don’t want to say no book is ever worth reading, but I actually do believe something pretty close to that.” He didn’t like movies either.
It’s impossible to read the sad saga of Bankman-Fried without thinking he, and many of those around him, would have been better off if they had spent less time at math camp and more time in English class. Sometimes in books, the characters find their moral compass; in the best books, the reader does too.
As I read about Bankman-Fried, the historical drama “A Man for All Seasons,” once a staple for high school students, kept coming to mind. It’s about a man who knows right from wrong and a man who doesn’t. Richard Rich is a little like Bankman-Fried: a young man with huge ambitions and no scruples. He begs Thomas More for a place at court. More tells Rich he would be a good teacher.
Who would know if I were a good teacher? Rich asks scornfully.
“You, your pupils, your friends, God,” More replies. “Not a bad public, that.”
Rich rejects the quiet life, betrays More and is rewarded with a post in Wales. Viewers are given to understand that he loses his soul. Bankman-Fried rejected the quiet life, betrayed nearly everyone he knew — and ended up with neither wealth nor Wales.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Altruism; Attorneys; Books; Trials

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Alameda Research; NAICS: 522320, 523160

Identifier / keyword: Beaches; United States; Budgets And Budgeting; Forbes Magazine; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Apple Inc; Instagram Inc; United States Politics And Government; Buffett, Warren E; Holmes, Elizabeth (1984 ); Newspapers; Hk Ftx Trading Ltd (Futures Exchange); Virtual Currency; Altruism; Business; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Theranos Inc; Locket (Mobile App); Banking And Financial Institutions; Ponzi And Pyramid Schemes; Youth; Airbnb; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Silicon Valley Bank; Ellison , Caroline (1994 ); Whatsapp Inc; Wales; Decisions And Verdicts; Forgery; Computers And The Internet; Bankman Fried, Sam; Rise Labs Inc; Entrepreneurship; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; News And News Media; Writing And Writers; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Rumors And Misinformation; Facebook Inc; Stocks And Bonds; Computer And Video Games; Financial Times; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Fried, Barbara (1951 ); Sequoia Capital; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological; Streitfeld, David

Title: Wild Ride and Dizzying Crash for Reluctant King of Crypto

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-03T22:19:32Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885667525

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-ride-dizzying-crash-reluctant-king-crypto/docview/2885667525/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

If the City Says Airbnbs Are Illegal, How Can My Neighbor Still Rent Out?: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Ramos, Jill Terreri

Publication info: Ramos, Jill Terreri. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/if-city-says-airbnbs-are-illegal-how-can-my/docview/2883190439/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Most co-ops require shareholders to comply with local laws and regulations, not just their own rules.
Q: I live in a midsize co-op building in the West Village. A rent-stabilized tenant on the first floor had listed a room in her apartment on Airbnb for years, until such rentals were prohibited. We also registered our building on the city's prohibited buildings list. Her Airbnb listing was removed, but she continues to rent out a room (or the whole apartment, we're not sure) on Facebook Marketplace. We've shared this information with the apartment's sponsor and several others in our building. The sponsor hasn't told the tenant to stop this illegal practice. What rights does the co-op have here? Can we evict the tenant, or take action against the sponsor?
A: New York City's laws restricting short-term rentals took effect in September. Your co-op's place on the city's prohibited buildings list and this apartment's rent-stabilized status make short-term rentals in this unit illegal.
To put a stop to it in your building, you can simultaneously alert the city, the unit sponsor, and the offending tenant.
Report the continued rental activity to 311, including any evidence you have, such as online listings. These complaints are handled by the Mayor's Office of Special Enforcement.
The co-op should also send the sponsor a "notice to cure," outlining in writing that this tenant is violating the law by renting the unit on a short-term basis. If the sponsor doesn't take action against the tenant within 10 days, the co-op can likely move to cancel the sponsor's proprietary lease, because most proprietary leases require shareholders to comply with local laws and regulations.
"The co-op has to apply the pressure to initially serve the notice to cure to start the ball rolling," said Andrew I. Bart, a litigator who specializes in co-ops and condominiums at Kagan Lubic Lepper Finkelstein & Gold in Manhattan. "It would appear that the sponsor is violating the governing documents of the cooperative. That is a valid reason, if there is no cure, to terminate the sponsor's shares."
And what if the revolving door of short-term guests persists, and a notice to cure and a 30-day notice of termination of the shares are ignored? "The co-op would then proceed into housing court for its remedy, which would be eviction following the co-op's termination of sponsor's shares," Mr. Bart said.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
To submit your questions or comments, email realestateqa@nytimes.com
Illustration This article appeared in print on page RE2.

Subject: Cooperatives; Rentals; Stockholders

Business indexing term: Subject: Cooperatives Stockholders

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/28/realestate/if-airbnbs-are-illegal-how-does-my-neighbor-still-get-away-with-it.html

Title: If the City Says Airbnbs Are Illegal, How Can My Neighbor Still Rent Out?:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 29, 2023

column: Ask Real Estate

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883190439

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/if-city-says-airbnbs-are-illegal-how-can-my/docview/2883190439/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Stroke of Serendipity, a Stunning Solar Eclipse: [Science Desk]

Author: Dowling, Danielle

Publication info: Dowling, Danielle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stroke-serendipity-stunning-solar-eclipse/docview/2882165941/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Danielle Dowling, an editor for The New York Times, recently traveled to Texas Hill Country to witness the event in person.
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
Throughout my life, I've wondered: Why is the universe the way it is?
Physics offers the best answers to that question, so I went back to school in 2007 to get a second bachelor's degree in physics. I also got a master's degree in science education in 2013.
Accordingly, I tend to geek out over celestial events. (I've witnessed dozens.) So I jumped at the chance to report on the annular solar eclipse on Oct. 14, when the moon nestled perfectly within the sun for a couple of minutes, leaving nothing but a thin, breathtaking ring of solar radiation.
One of the unique aspects of a solar eclipse is not so much when it happens, but where. An eclipse occurs in one of its guises -- partial, hybrid, annular, total -- about twice a year somewhere on the planet.
To capture the magic of an eclipse and why people would travel to see one, I knew I needed to report from an ideal spot. So I reviewed a NASA map of the path of the annular eclipse. That's when I noticed something surprising: The path of the annular eclipse and that of the total eclipse, another celestial event that will take place on April 8, formed an "X" over Texas. The paths crisscross over Hill Country, a sprawling area north of San Antonio and west of Austin.
The odds of two types of eclipses passing through the same location within a six-month time frame are, well, astronomical, which made Hill Country particularly singular and thus my destination. Going there in October would allow me to see the annular eclipse and preview the upcoming fanfare in April.
I booked my trip to Texas and reached out to the NASA-sponsored Eclipse Ambassadors program, which helps community organizers put together eclipse-related events by connecting them with astronomers. I formed if not a fully fleshed-out plan then at least a serviceable outline: I would watch the eclipse from a winery outside of Fredericksburg and go to a few eclipse festivals afterward.
On the morning of Oct. 13, right before my flight took off, I heard back from someone in the Ambassadors program who put me in touch with Dawn Davies, the night sky manager with the Hill Country Alliance. I called her and told her of my plans -- which she quickly shot down. Though Fredericksburg would be well situated for the total eclipse, she said, the city was toward the edge of the path of the annular eclipse. I needed to be closer to the centerline -- otherwise I'd have just a handful of seconds to witness the moon sitting snugly within the sun, instead of a couple of minutes.
My mind reeled as I tried to work out a new plan. Getting around Hill Country would not be easy: The area, full of ranches and farms, is large; the roads, indirect. But for the sake of my reporting, I knew I had to relocate to a place where I could see maximum annularity.
Ms. Davies told me to sit tight while she got in touch with officials from towns closer to the centerline. Within a half-hour I heard from Patricia Moore, the executive director of the Bandera County Convention and Visitors Bureau. The town of Bandera was about 20 miles from the centerline and just 40 minutes from my Airbnb.
The next day, we met at the visitors' center there. Ms. Moore, the perfect guide, took me to just the right spot: the Bandera Natural History Museum, where children ran around, oohing and aahing. Gabriel Segura of Star Party America, a very helpful astronomer, was on hand to guide us all through the eclipse. It seemed like the perfect place to be for what I needed.
Around 11:30 a.m., I looked through the doors of the museum and noticed the skies had darkened. But once outside, they didn't seem as dim as I expected.
"People don't understand how much the sun puts out even when it's whittled down to a thin crescent," Joseph Rao, an associate and guest lecturer at the Hayden Planetarium, told me a few days after the eclipse.
Oblivious to what was going on above me, I was engrossed by how the eclipse seemed to warp the shadows of trees on the white concrete platform on which I was standing. A cheer eventually erupted from the crowd, prompting me to look up. When I peered through my protective goggles to see that slim ring surrounding the moon's blackened disk, the sight was bewitching.
So too was Bandera. I was there for just a few hours -- soon after annularity, I was back on the road to visit a festival in Kerrville, the wineries in Fredericksburg and Texclipse in Junction. Yet Bandera, where roosters roam free and Old West re-enactments take place most Saturdays, stays with me. Without the time I spent there, I think my reporting would have failed to fully capture the magic of the moment. Serendipity, which can be the secret sauce of travel, made my article all the richer.
Photograph In an annular eclipse, the moon is too far from the Earth to fully block the sun, allowing some light to penetrate and creating a "ring of fire." (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON BELL/GETTY IMAGES); The path of the annular solar eclipse on Oct. 14, when the moon passed directly between the Earth and sun, included parts of North America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICARDO B. BRAZZIELL/AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Moon; Solar eclipses; Sun; Museums

Location: Texas; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/27/insider/eclipse-texas-hill-country.html

Title: A Stroke of Serendipity, a Stunning Solar Eclipse:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 27, 2023

column: Times Insider

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2882165941

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stroke-serendipity-stunning-solar-eclipse/docview/2882165941/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New Senator Will Not Run For the Office In California: [National Desk]

Author: Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-senator-will-not-run-office-california/docview/2878959950/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ms. Butler, who was appointed by Gov. Gavin Newsom just weeks ago to fill Dianne Feinstein's seat, said she had realized that "this is not the greatest use of my voice."
Laphonza Butler, who was appointed less than three weeks ago to fill the Senate seat left vacant by Dianne Feinstein's death, said on Thursday that she would not run next year for the office, clearing the way for an open race in California that features three Democratic congressional members and a former Major League Baseball star.
In an interview with The New York Times, Senator Butler said that she intended to be "the loudest, proudest champion of California" in the remaining months of her term, but that she had realized "this is not the greatest use of my voice."
A longtime California labor leader and rising star in the state's Democratic Party, Ms. Butler was the president of the political action committee Emily's List when Gov. Gavin Newsom appointed her this month. The swift decision came days after Ms. Feinstein's death, and after a promise by Mr. Newsom to name a Black woman to complete the senator's term.
Ms. Butler, 44, is the second Black woman to represent California in the Senate, after Vice President Kamala Harris, and the first openly L.G.B.T.Q. senator from the state.
She said that after she took office this month, she gave more serious thought to her long-term career prospects and consulted more deeply with her wife and 9-year-old daughter.
She said no single event or concern had influenced her decision, and she did not rule out a future run for elective office. Many in California Democratic circles said she would have been a formidable candidate, despite the relatively short time to build a campaign before the primary in March, and name recognition in the nation's most populous state.
"I know it's surprising -- folks don't traditionally see people who have power let it go, but this is a moment where I've had to mind my own truth and hold it in my own heart," she said.
Californians will still have a wealth of candidates to choose from. Three high-profile Democratic members of Congress -- Representatives Katie Porter, Adam Schiff and Barbara Lee -- had been campaigning for months when Senator Feinstein died at 90 in late September. Steve Garvey, the former first baseman for the Los Angeles Dodgers and San Diego Padres, has also announced his candidacy as a Republican.
Several other Democrats, including Lexi Reese, a business executive from Silicon Valley, and Christina Pascucci, a Los Angeles newscaster, have also entered the race. So has Eric Early, a conservative Republican who has run unsuccessfully for Congress and state attorney general.
Mr. Schiff, who has the support of Nancy Pelosi, the former House speaker has amassed more than $ 30 million in cash, according to his most recent campaign filing, and polls have consistently shown him and Ms. Porter in the lead.
Ms. Butler said on Thursday that she had not yet decided whether to endorse anyone in next year's Senate race.
"I haven't thought about it much," she said. "I have a great deal of respect for all the people who are running but I haven't made any decisions yet."
Ms. Butler spent nearly two decades at the Service Employees International Union, where she led a branch in California representing some 325,000 home-care workers. Her accomplishments included leading the fight for a $ 15 minimum wage in the state. Before taking the Senate appointment, Ms. Butler helmed Emily's List, a powerhouse organization that helps Democratic women in favor of abortion rights get elected.
She also worked for a political consulting firm, where she advised Vice President Harris, Governor Newsom and the ride-share company Uber. She later was in charge of political advocacy at Airbnb.
Her appointment was politically complex for Mr. Newsom. Black members of Congress had mounted a campaign to persuade the governor to appoint Representative Lee, a longtime Bay Area congresswoman who is Black. They were upset in September when Mr. Newsom told NBC News that if Senator Feinstein had left office early, he would appoint a Black woman who would only serve on an interim basis.
After Ms. Feinstein's death, Mr. Newsom shifted course and said that Ms. Butler could run for the seat in 2024 if she wanted to. Black leaders, including Representative Lee, praised his selection.
On Thursday, Aimee Allison, the founder of She the People, an organization that helps elect women of color, urged Ms. Butler to endorse Representative Lee.
"I applaud Senator Butler's decision and look forward to working with her in the coming year," Ms. Allison said in a statement. "She has the opportunity to be -- once again -- a queenmaker, this time for the next senator of California."
Senator Butler said on Thursday that she was moved by the heady aftermath following her appointment. But, she said, in the ensuing days -- including several spent in quarantine after she tested positive for Covid-19 -- she discovered that "there are lots of ways for you to serve and to be of service."
"I think I'm a typical millennial Gen-Xer who wants to offer my time and talents in ways that best speak to me," she said. "Just because you can win a campaign doesn't always mean you should run a campaign."
Photograph Laphonza Butler, who was named to succeed Senator Dianne Feinstein, said Thursday that she would not run for the seat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Appointments & personnel changes; Congressional elections; Professional baseball

Business indexing term: Subject: Appointments & personnel changes

Location: California; Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala; Newsom, Gavin; Feinstein, Dianne; Butler, Laphonza

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/19/us/laphonza-butler-senate-california.html

Title: New Senator Will Not Run For the Office In California:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oc t 20, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878959950

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-senator-will-not-run-office-california/docview/2878959950/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Celebrity Apology Video Aesthetic: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kaysen, Ronda

Publication info: Kaysen, Ronda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/celebrity-apology-video-aesthetic/docview/2877063903/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When celebrities address public criticism, they deliver their explanations in homey or sparse settings aimed at making them more relatable, public relations strategists say.
Last week, Drew Barrymore took to Instagram to defend restarting her talk show amid a bitter writers' strike, a move that her critics said amounted to crossing a picket line.
Facing the camera, slightly off-center, in a room so heavily wallpapered even the ceiling wasn't spared, she asked her 17 million followers for their understanding. "I know there's just nothing I can do that will make this OK to those it is not OK with," she said, a macramé wall hanging behind her.
The homey setting was familiar. It's an essential element of the celebrity apology video genre.
These videos appear off the cuff -- hair disheveled, faces uncharacteristically makeup-free, weird lighting -- but they are likely curated to elicit empathy, down to the cozy, intimate locations, any hint of far more opulent surroundings out of the frame, according to public relations experts.
"They wanted to show authenticity and relatability," said Molly McPherson, a crisis communications strategist. "By offering a glimpse into their personal spaces, it not only shows a sense of vulnerability, but it's trying to establish trust."
September has been a particularly busy month for celebrity damage control. On Sept. 9, Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis posted an apology video on Instagram. Dressed in rumpled T-shirts and against a weathered wooden wall, they explained why they had written character letters in support of their friend and former "That '70s Show" co-star Danny Masterson, who was recently sentenced to 30 years to life in prison for the rapes of two women.
And on the same day that Ms. Barrymore posted her video, the comedian and actor Russell Brand turned to his YouTube channel to pre-emptively challenge a news investigation into allegations that he had sexually assaulted several women, appearing in a room that he has used for his other videos with décor that fell somewhere between a HomeGoods showroom and a virtual Zoom background.
"It's supposed to be faux authentic," said Seema Rao, an art historian who has analyzed celebrity apology videos on her TikTok account, of Mr. Brand's choice location. "Maybe he really splurged and went to World Market."
Rather than find sympathy, the stars found themselves as TikTok fodder. On Sept. 15, Mr. Kutcher resigned as the chair of Thorn, the organization he co-founded to fight child sex abuse. Within hours of posting her video, Ms. Barrymore took it down. By Sunday, she had reversed her decision to restart her show. And on Tuesday, YouTube banned Mr. Brand, whose channel has 6.6 million followers, from profiting from its site.
Ms. Barrymore declined to comment through a spokesman. Representatives for Mr. Kutcher, Ms. Kunis and Mr. Brand did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Celebrities have long used their homes as social currency, offering them up for public consumption, and as aspirational messages showcasing their impeccable taste and wealth. Celebrities regularly grace the covers of shelter magazines like Better Homes & Gardens, as Ms. Barrymore did this month. Mr. Kutcher and Ms. Kunis happily brought a cameraman into their Santa Barbara beach house when they rented it out for free on Airbnb, part of a marketing partnership with the vacation rental site. The couple posted that video to Instagram a day before the apology video.
Ms. Barrymore's stars and stripes wallpapers made an appearance on TikTok when the actress, who sells a line of peel-and-stick wallpaper at Walmart, posted a video of her cleaning her messy bedroom. So why wouldn't it work this time? "I think she thought we were going to look at the macramé in the back wall and the striped wallpaper and we'd connect with her like she's one of the girls," Ms. Rao said.
Mr. Kutcher and Ms. Kunis may have made a similar calculation by choosing a rustic backdrop. "They were definitely looking for something that didn't look expensive," Ms. Rao said. Instead, "it looked like 'American Gothic."'
The weathered Kunis-Kutcher wall has made the rounds before. The couple stood in front of it in 2022, crooning, "Imagine all the people" in an episode of "The Boys" that lampooned the widely panned "Imagine" video that the actress Gal Gadot had made to lift spirits at the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic.
This time, however, they were the ones being mocked. Many keen-eyed viewers on social media noted what wasn't visible: The wall is the exterior of a poolside guesthouse on the six-acre estate the couple calls KuKu Farms. It's there for all to see in a stunning 2021 Architectural Digest spread.
Photograph Stars who posted damage control videos last month, from top: Drew Barrymore on Instagram; Russell Brand on his YouTube channel; and Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis on Instagram. "They wanted to show authenticity and relatability," one communications strategist said. But rather than gaining sympathy, the celebrities found themselves to be TikTok fodder. This article appeared in print on page RE11.

Subject: Strikes; Public relations; Sex crimes; Celebrities; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Public relations Social networks

People: Barrymore, Drew; Brand, Russell; Kutcher, Ashton; Kunis, Mila

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/realestate/celebrity-apology-videos-drew-barrymore.html

Title: The Celebrity Apology Video Aesthetic:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 15, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Perio dicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2877063903

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/celebrity-apology-video-aesthetic/docview/2877063903/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sleepy Seaside Town, Awoken by Art: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Perry, Francesca

Publication info: Perry, Francesca. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sleepy-seaside-town-awoken-art/docview/2876809770/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The town of Eastbourne, England, hopes the contemporary art prize can help it shake off a geriatric image, and bring new attention to the seaside town.
In 2004, when Miriam Wilkinson moved from London to Eastbourne, on England's southeast coast, the seaside town was often referred to as "God's waiting room" because of its aging population. But in the last few years, there had been "an awakening" in Eastbourne, said Wilkinson, 40, who works at a nonprofit. Young families were arriving, she added, and new public art was appearing in the streets.
Now, one of Britain's most important art events, the Turner Prize, has arrived in the town, too, at the Towner Eastbourne art museum. Locals are hoping it will change the town's reputation and place it on a national, or even global, cultural stage.
But as shown by the experiences of other English seaside towns, big-city culture often dovetails with an influx of new residents, and concerns about gentrification and unfairly shared benefits often follow.
The annual Turner Prize and the accompanying exhibition of the shortlisted artists' work celebrate the best of contemporary art in Britain. Often landing with a dose of controversy, the prize is one of the few events that transcends the art-world bubble and infiltrates public consciousness. This year's winner will be chosen from four nominees -- Jesse Darling, Ghislaine Leung, Rory Pilgrim and Barbara Walker -- by a panel of judges and announced in a ceremony in Eastbourne on Dec. 5. (The exhibition at Towner Eastbourne runs through April 14, 2024.)
Organized by Tate Britain, a part of the Tate museum group, the Turner Prize was once a mainstay of the London art calendar, but in recent years it has been staged in art venues outside the capital.
"We want to bring the art directly to where people are," said Alex Farquharson, Tate Britain's director and a Turner Prize co-chair, "so that it benefits the whole country." The show could be "a teenager's first exposure to really cutting-edge art," he said, "and we know that can have a legacy."
This year, Eastbourne was a surprising choice. The town -- a popular vacation spot in the Victorian era, now dotted with retirement complexes and nursing homes -- has struggled with its unkind nickname "for a long time," said Chris Connelley, an arts official in the town hall, which has partnered with Towner Eastbourne and the regional government on an extended cultural program running concurrently with the Turner Prize. Called Eastbourne Alive, it includes art installations and exhibitions around town.
Connelley said the arrival of the Turner Prize was an opportunity to project a "contemporary image" of Eastbourne and attract new visitors and residents.
Over the last two decades, England's seaside towns have been turning to the arts to transform their fortunes. Once buoyed by domestic tourism, the economies of many became sluggish in the 1970s with the rise of cheap foreign travel.
Loretta Lees, a professor of sociology at Boston University, said that under the government of Prime Minister Tony Blair, in the late 1990s, culture came to be seen as an "economic engine" that could decrease unemployment, reduce health disparities and improve social inclusion in deprived areas. As the 2000s began, new art venues and events were established to revitalize towns and cities.
In three seaside towns near London -- Folkestone, Margate and Hastings -- the transformations have been distinct. In 2008, the Folkestone Triennial arts festival was inaugurated, and the town now boasts a colorfully painted district called the Cultural Quarter. In 2011, the $ 29-million Turner Contemporary exhibition space opened in Margate, one of the most socioeconomically deprived districts in England. (Turner Contemporary hosted the Turner Prize in 2019.) In Hastings, another town with high poverty levels, the Hastings Contemporary art space started up in 2012.
More and more Londoners have been relocating to the towns, attracted by relatively affordable housing and these expanding cultural scenes. It's a familiar story: Increasingly unaffordable housing in major metropolitan centers -- New York and San Francisco, as well as Sydney, Australia -- has driven people to relocate to places where space isn't at such a premium, a trend accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic and an increase in remote working. (An analysis by The Times showed that, in the United States, the pandemic triggered moves from big cities to coastal vacation towns such as Ocean City, N.J., and Cape Cod, Mass.)
Such changes can have unintended consequences. In Margate, average house prices more than doubled between 2012 and 2022, according to the property website Rightmove, and a spike in summer Airbnb rentals has contributed to a deepening housing crisis in the town, leading to protests from local community groups. Hastings is experiencing similar problems and some Folkstone residents are campaigning to block a luxury development in one of the town's poorest neighborhoods, complaining that locals can't afford the properties.
Connelley, the Eastbourne arts official, said that cultural regeneration activities in the town aimed to involve the broadest swath of the population. That's why the town was supporting local projects while hosting the Turner Prize, he said, rather than just "airlifting in the fashionable."
Eastbourne-based groups like Devonshire Collective are working to involve local people and creating art projects "that celebrate the people that live here," said Edward Ball, the organization's director. "You can't take it for granted that everyone here knows what the Turner Prize is, and if they do, if they care," he added.
Devonshire Collective hosts free art workshops for young people and consulted attendees when planning public art works for Eastbourne Alive. "We're trying to commission work that is in conversation with people who are here, and not just impose an artwork somewhere," Ball said.
For one piece, a seafront mural called "Love, Empathy, Respect, Dignity," the artist Nadina Ali collaborated with young people in choosing the titular slogan.
Connelley said the idea was to make art a part of daily life in Eastbourne, and that the Turner Prize had been the catalyst. "The decision by Tate," he said, "to effectively invest in Eastbourne as their host this year was epic."
Photograph From top: Eastbourne, England, where the Turner Prize is holding its annual exhibition of shortlisted artists' work and will announce the prize's winner in December; works by Barbara Walker in the show, at the Towner Eastbourne art museum; the museum's exterior. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMIE SOUTEYRAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C4.

Subject: Turner Prize; Art galleries & museums; Culture; Contemporary art; Public art; Pandemics; Towns

Location: England; United Kingdom--UK

People: Walker, Barbara

Company / organization: Name: Tate Britain-London England; NAICS: 712110; Name: Turner Contemporary; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/12/arts/design/turner-prize-eastbourne.html

Title: Sleepy Seaside Town, Awoken by Art:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 14, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876809770

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sleepy-seaside-town-awoken-art/docview/2876809770/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Labor Groups Vexed by New California Senator's Work With Uber: [National Desk]

Author: Browning, Kellen; Corkery, Michael

Publication info: Browning, Kellen; Corkery, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/labor-groups-vexed-new-california-senators-work/docview/2874707303/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Laphonza Butler was part of Uber's push to avoid having to classify its drivers as employees. Her new appointment has drawn ire from labor advocates.
In the summer of 2019, Uber, Lyft and other companies that use contract drivers faced a crisis in California. The State Legislature was poised to pass a law that would effectively require them to treat their drivers as employees, meaning the gig companies would have to pay drivers a minimum wage, cover their expenses and contribute to state unemployment -- all significant new costs.
Desperate for a way out, the companies pushed legislators to exempt their drivers from the new law, saying they faced huge economic losses. But they wanted the backing of the state's unions for the exemption, and promised to extend some new benefits for drivers if the unions got on board.
So Uber brought in a team of high-powered consultants, including one whose connections with organized labor were unimpeachable: Laphonza Butler, the former president of California's largest union, a branch of the Service Employees International Union.
Ms. Butler, working through a prominent California consulting firm, advised Uber on how to deal with unions like the Teamsters and S.E.I.U., and sat in on several face-to-face meetings between the gig companies and union representatives, according to those familiar with the negotiations.
The overture to labor divided union activists, some of whom bristled at negotiating with the companies, and ultimately, it failed. But Ms. Butler's chapter with Uber proved to be a pivotal moment in her career, moving from labor activism to the world of high-powered political consulting, which also involved a role in advising Vice President Kamala Harris in her 2020 presidential campaign.
On Sunday, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced that he was naming Ms. Butler as the state's next senator, replacing Dianne Feinstein, who died last week. Many Democrats cheered the appointment of Ms. Butler, the third Black woman to serve in the Senate and a prominent figure in Democratic politics for more than a decade who most recently served as president of Emily's List, the political action committee that works to elect women and candidates who support abortion rights.
But the appointment has also drawn ire from labor advocates, who have not forgotten Ms. Butler's work consulting with Uber, which some saw as an uncomfortable reversal from her history in the labor movement and the values she promoted there.
"The sense was she was betraying her commitment to working people," said Veena Dubal, a professor at the University of California, Irvine, School of Law, who has argued that Uber's drivers should be classified as employees. "She sold out in a really big way."
The negotiations Ms. Butler was involved in eventually fell apart, and the gig companies turned to a ballot initiative with similar provisions, Proposition 22, that voters passed the following year. Supporters of Ms. Butler said her time consulting for Uber was scarcely a blip compared with her long history of labor advocacy, which includes organizing hundreds of thousands of workers in nursing homes and home-based care and successfully pushing for a statewide $ 15-per-hour minimum wage.
"Labor hasn't had a union leader in the Senate in 60 years -- let alone a union president who spent nearly two decades leading successful campaigns to raise the minimum wage and help workers organize," said Jeffrey Lerner, the acting chief of staff for Ms. Butler. "That's Senator Butler's résumé and those are her values."
Ms. Butler declined to be interviewed for this article but told The San Francisco Chronicle this week that she believed gig drivers "should have the protections of employment," and said her role with Uber "was one that was consistent with my résumé." Uber also declined to comment.
In 2019, Mr. Newsom's administration encouraged the gig companies and labor unions to work out their differences over the issue, several people involved in the discussions said. Uber and Lyft wanted to persuade the unions to back a bill they could bring to the Legislature that would exempt their drivers from Assembly Bill 5, which would treat many categories of gig workers, like freelance writers and janitors, as employees for the purposes of employment law.
In exchange for the exemption, the gig companies would agree that the drivers could receive some limited benefits and join "network driver advocacy organizations" in which the state's unions would represent them and negotiate for some labor rights.
Ms. Butler was brought in as well, with Uber paying the team at the consulting firm where she worked, SCRB Strategies, now known as Bearstar Strategies, $ 185,000 in 2019 and 2020. She was seen essentially as a translator, helping company managers understand the subtleties of labor leaders' positions and frame arguments in ways that would appeal to the unions, according to several people familiar with the discussions, who declined to be identified because they were not authorized to discuss internal Uber issues or did not want to air internal conflicts in the labor movement.
One person said Ms. Butler was expected to take on other tasks as well, including talking with her former union colleagues about a possible compromise. It was also expected that she might help with a public relations strategy to persuade lawmakers and the general public that AB-5 could have negative effects on gig workers, though it was not clear whether she agreed to do so.
Ms. Butler participated in occasional conference calls with the company's public affairs team, according to two people with knowledge of the calls. She answered their questions and advised Uber to use fewer vague tech industry buzzwords and be more straightforward in communicating with the unions.
Ms. Butler told the Uber employees that she would help them as long as it did not betray her values, one of the people recalled.
Still, Ms. Butler's presence on the other side of the negotiating table rankled many of the state's most prominent labor unions, several union officials said, although they did not want to discuss the matter publicly because they did not want to cross Mr. Newsom and Ms. Butler.
The months of discussions stretched from consultants' offices in Sacramento to hotels in Oakland and the headquarters of Uber and Salesforce in San Francisco. They included large group negotiations, forums for drivers to share their views with labor organizers and smaller sit-downs between the unions' top negotiators and gig company executives, including John Zimmer, the former president of Lyft, and Tony West, Uber's chief legal officer and the brother-in-law of Vice President Harris.
Ms. Butler's role during the meetings she attended was minimal, according to several people. She sat on the sidelines listening, exchanged brief niceties with the union leaders she knew and once made introductions during a meeting in which drivers gave their perspective to the two parties.
Leaders of S.E.I.U., the union where Ms. Butler had formerly worked, were the most amenable to cutting a deal, according to two people involved in the discussions. But many other unions were strongly opposed, fearing they were bargaining away crucial employment rights for vulnerable workers. The talks fizzled out.
Assembly Bill 5 passed that fall and took effect the following year, but Uber and Lyft eventually got what they wanted anyway, joining DoorDash to spend more than $ 200 million on Prop. 22, passed by voters in 2020, which maintained gig drivers' status as independent contractors and provided them limited benefits, like a wage floor and some health insurance stipends. The measure is currently facing a legal challenge.
Ms. Butler was not involved in the Prop. 22 campaign and left the consulting firm in 2020 to become a director of public policy at Airbnb, the short-term home rental company launched in San Francisco.
Like Uber, Airbnb has faced regulatory heat in Democratic, union-friendly strongholds like New York, where the company was being blamed for pushing up rents for working class residents and hurting hotel jobs. (Airbnb has said many other factors have caused rents to rise in New York and that its business model has helped drive down lodging costs for consumers.) One of the company's chief adversaries in New York had been the Hotel Trades Council, a powerful union.
Mary Kay Henry, S.E.I.U.'s international president, said Ms. Butler was a "transformational" labor leader and suggested that her pro-worker voice being part of Uber's negotiating team may have been a benefit for workers.
"She's who I'd want in the room helping corporations understand what workers want and need," Ms. Henry said.
But the animosity Ms. Butler engendered among organized labor remains, and supporters of those running for the permanent Senate seat -- who include Representatives Adam Schiff, Barbara Lee and Katie Porter -- have been quick to resurrect the issue. If Ms. Butler runs for a full term, the unions will have to decide whether to support her. Some, including a firefighters' union, a film set workers' union and a public transit union have already endorsed Mr. Schiff.
The deadline to seek the endorsement of the California Democratic Party was originally Oct. 13, but the party decided this week to push back that date to Oct. 27 to give Ms. Butler time to apply if she decides to run, said Rusty Hicks, the state party's chair.
For some Democrats, Ms. Butler's appointment draws attention to a deeper messaging problem within the Democratic Party. Mr. Newsom might get credit for appointing an L.G.B.T.Q. Black senator, but her consulting work, to some, highlights the party's ties to big businesses.
"This is why many working class voters have this distaste for the Democratic Party and a lot of them went to Trump," said Larry Cohen, the former president of the Communications Workers of America, which represents hundreds of thousands of workers at companies like Verizon and AT&T.
Mr. Cohen is now chairman of Our Revolution, a progressive advocacy group that recently endorsed Ms. Lee.
But Anthony York, a spokesman for Mr. Newsom, defended the governor's appointment. "Anyone casting doubt on Senator Butler's record of fighting for working families either doesn't know what they're talking about or has some sort of political ax to grind," he said.
Laphonza Butler was part of Uber's push to avoid having to classify its drivers as employees. Ms. Butler, working through a prominent California consulting firm, advised Uber on how to deal with unions like the Teamsters and S.E.I.U. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS; BRITTANY GREESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); In 2019, the State Legislature was poised to pass a law that would require Uber and Lyft to treat their drivers as employees, meaning companies would have to pay them a minimum wage, and more. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Workers; Minimum wage; Appointments & personnel changes; Employees; Employment; Political parties; Labor law; Presidents; Negotiations; Consulting firms; Voters; Endorsements; Union leadership; Labor unions; Advocacy

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Minimum wage Appointments & personnel changes Employees Employment Labor law Consulting firms Union leadership Labor unions

Location: New York; United States--US; California; San Francisco California

People: Harris, Kamala; Butler, Laphonza

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/07/us/politics/laphonza-butler-uber-lobbying.html

Title: Labor Groups Vexed by New California Senator's Work With Uber:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 10, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2874707303

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/labor-groups-vexed-new-california-senators-work/docview/2874707303/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2872057753/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Wednesday, Oct. 4, 2023.
INTERNATIONAL
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about tension surrounding hunting rules in New Zealand referred incorrectly to New Zealand's native mammals. Bats are a mammal native to New Zealand; it is not the case that New Zealand has no native land mammals.
NATIONAL
An article on Tuesday about a viral video of Secretary of State Antony Blinken playing guitar misidentified Jay Carney's employer. He is the head of policy and communications for Airbnb, not Amazon.
OBITUARIES
An obituary on Monday about Robert Day, the founder of the giant California asset-management firm TCW Group, misstated the size of a donation he made to Claremont McKenna College, his alma mater, in 2007. It was a gift of $ 200 million, not $ 500 million.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A17.

Title: Corrections:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retraction

ProQuest document ID: 2872057753

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2872057753/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Appointee to Feinstein's Seat To Blaze New Trail in Senate: [National Desk]

Author: Betts, Anna

Publication info: Betts, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/appointee-feinsteins-seat-blaze-new-trail-senate/docview/2871534584/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ms. Butler, 44, was chosen on Sunday to fill the vacancy created by the death of Senator Dianne Feinstein.
Laphonza Butler, president of Emily's List and a former labor leader, is Gov. Gavin Newsom of California's choice to fill the Senate seat of Dianne Feinstein, who died at 90 on Thursday in Washington, D.C. The selection was announced on Sunday.
Though Ms. Butler, 44, has never held elective political office, she has been a fixture in California politics for nearly 15 years as a former leader of the state's largest labor union, as a partner at a top-flight political consulting firm, and as an adviser to Vice President Kamala Harris during her 2020 presidential bid.
Governor Newsom pledged in early 2021, after naming Alex Padilla to succeed Ms. Harris in the Senate, that if another seat were to become vacant, he would name a Black woman, a promise he kept by naming Ms. Butler.
In choosing her, the governor bypassed Representative Barbara Lee, a Democrat who has long been a leader in the state's Black community and who is already running for the Senate seat in next year's election. The governor said that he did not want to tip the scales in that race, which also includes Representatives Adam Schiff and Katie Porter, by appointing one of the contenders to fill the seat in the interim.
Vice President Harris is expected to swear in Ms. Butler on Tuesday at the Capitol. Here are some things to know about the newly appointed senator.
Daughter of working-class parents
Ms. Butler was born in Magnolia, Miss., and grew up in a working-class home. Her father received a diagnosis of a terminal illness and died when she was 16, and she told The New York Times in 2021 that after that, her household was supported largely by her mother, who worked, among other jobs, as a security guard, gas station cashier, home-care worker and teaching assistant.
In an interview with Elle Magazine in 2021, Ms. Butler said that her family wasn't the type "that talked about elections or politics at the dinner table, but we were the family that talked about what it meant to be in service to others."
Ms. Butler received a bachelor's degree in political science and government in 2001 from Jackson State University, a historically Black college in Mississippi. Several of Ms. Butler's college instructors were veterans of the civil rights movement, she told The Los Angeles Times, adding that they instilled in her a drive for activism and a commitment to social justice.
"What are you doing for freedom? That was always the question," Butler said. "What are you doing for freedom today?"
Ms. Butler will be the second Black woman to represent California in the Senate, after Ms. Harris, and will be the first openly L.G.B.T.Q. senator from the state.
Rise as a labor organizer
Ms. Butler rose to political prominence in California through labor activism, and led the union representing 325,000 workers in nursing homes and home-based care for more than a decade, according to Governor Newsom's office. During her time as president of Local 2015 of the Service Employees International Union, she pushed for policies that included raising the state minimum wage to $ 15 and increasing income tax rates paid by the state's wealthiest residents.
Ms. Butler told The Los Angeles Times in 2015 that labor unions were "building collective power in service of our broader society."
"We have to figure out how to build the broadest possible movement on behalf of solving big problems," Ms. Butler said in the interview. "We have a climate crisis. The criminal justice system is broken. We have poverty. No longer are our problems bilateral, between one union and one factory. It's going to take the collective voice to solve those problems."
Ms. Butler made connections at the highest levels of California government during her time at the union. She was appointed to the University of California Board of Regents in 2018 by Gov. Jerry Brown and served until 2021.
In 2019, she left the union to become a partner at SCRB Strategies, a top political consultancy in California that is now known as Bearstar Strategies. The firm advises Governor Newsom and Vice President Harris. The firm also is working for Mr. Schiff in his 2024 race for the Senate.
While Ms. Butler was at SCRB Strategies, she was retained by the ride-share giant Uber in 2019 as the company battled labor unions over legislation governing pay, work conditions for drivers, and whether they should be classified as employees or independent contractors, The Los Angeles Times reported.
Many members of labor unions in California "were really angry and really felt like this was treachery" when Ms. Butler consulted for Uber, said Veena Dubal, a professor at the University of California, Irvine School of Law.
"What we remember her for is not her time as president of an important local, but as later making money by consulting for one of the most exploitative labor companies in the country," said Professor Dubal, who has argued for drivers to be treated as employees.
In September 2020, Ms. Butler was named the director for public policy and campaigns at Airbnb, the online home-sharing platform, where she worked for about a year.
In 2021, Ms. Butler became the first Black woman to take the helm at Emily's List, the fund-raising organization dedicated to electing female candidates and supporters of reproductive rights. An endorsement from Emily's List has long been one of the most sought-after for Democratic women.
Ms. Butler told NPR that she would work to ensure that Emily's List supported a more diverse range of candidates.
In 2022, Ms. Butler told Capital B News that she hoped that her presence at the organization "is a source of inspiration for a candidate that is thinking to herself that maybe she doesn't belong, that maybe her journey isn't what it takes to be an elected official," adding that "presence and representation matters and it doesn't go out of style."
Focus on abortion rights
After the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade in 2022, Ms. Butler released a statement saying the decision would have "sweeping consequences for millions of Americans" and that it had moved the country backward.
"Today is a tragic day," she said. "But this decision will not end the debate on this issue. We will take this fight to the ballot box. We are the majority in this country and we will fight back."
Ms. Butler has said that abortion was a "winning issue" for Democrats in 2022, but that in order to persuade voters, the messaging needed to be more holistic. She has emphasized the importance of voting rights when it comes to protecting access to reproductive care.
"If we can't elect the people who represent our values, then they can't govern based on our values," she told The 19th last year.
In announcing Ms. Butler's appointment on Sunday, Governor Newsom said that "as we mourn the enormous loss of Senator Feinstein, the very freedoms she fought for -- reproductive freedom, equal protection and safety from gun violence -- have never been under greater assault."
Ms. Butler, he said, "will carry the baton left by Senator Feinstein, continue to break glass ceilings and fight for all Californians in Washington, D.C."
Ms. Butler said in a social media post on Monday that she was "honored" to accept the appointment.
"No one will ever measure up to the legacy of Sen. Dianne Feinstein, but I will do my best to honor her legacy and leadership by committing to work for women and girls, workers and unions, struggling parents, and all of California," she wrote. "I am ready to serve."
2024 is an open question
Ms. Butler will serve until California voters elect a successor to Ms. Feinstein in November 2024. She could run in that election herself, but has not yet indicated whether she would do so.
Governor Newsom said on Monday that he told Ms. Butler immediately that she could make her own decision about running for a full term: "I have an incredible appointee and she'll make a decision with no constraints, no expectations."
That marked a shift from the governor's position last month, when the vacancy was still a hypothetical possibility and he described a potential appointment as an "interim" role, implying that he would not appoint someone who would try to retain the seat.
If she were to run, Ms. Butler would not have much time to build a campaign team and raise money before the California primary on March 5. She would start with the advantage of a brief incumbency, but without the funds needed to run a statewide campaign in California, the nation's most populous state.
The most recent campaign contribution reports for the race showed that Mr. Schiff had $ 30 million on hand, Ms. Porter had $ 10.4 million and Ms. Lee had $ 1.4 million.
Ms. Butler moved to the Washington, D.C., area from California when she became president of Emily's List in 2021; she will now re-register as a voter in California, where she still owns a home, according to Mr. Newsom's administration. Ms. Butler and her wife, Neneki Lee, have an 8-year-old daughter, Nylah.
The Congressional Black Caucus, which had previously urged Mr. Newsom to appoint Ms. Lee, issued a statement on Monday celebrating Ms. Butler as the first lesbian Black woman in the Senate.
"For many years, Laphonza Butler has been a champion for women and girls, students, and union workers, and we believe she will bring that same fight to the U.S. Senate on behalf of Californians and our entire nation," the statement said. "Laphonza will bring an important perspective to the upper house at a time when the rights of women and the L.G.B.T.Q.+ community are under attack."
Shawn Hubler, Heather Knight and Kayla Guo contributed reporting.
Shawn Hubler, Heather Knight and Kayla Guo contributed reporting.
Photograph Laphonza Butler, who has been chosen to fill the vacant Senate seat representing California, speaking in Washington in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Political activism; Political leadership; Employees; Campaign contributions; Political appointments; State elections; Working class; Governors; Abortion; Voters; Congressional elections; Labor unions; Equal rights

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Working class Labor unions

Location: United States--US; Washington DC; California; Los Angeles California

People: Harris, Kamala; Feinstein, Dianne; Butler, Laphonza

Company / organization: Name: Los Angeles Times; NAICS: 513110; Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/02/us/laphonza-butler-senate-california.html

Title: Appointee to Feinstein's Seat To Blaze New Trail in Senate:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2871534584

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/appointee-feinsteins-seat-blaze-new-trail-senate/docview/2871534584/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 3, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Has a Guitar and Will Travel, And People Like the Sound of It: [Correction]

Author: Crowley, Michael

Publication info: Crowley, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-has-guitar-will-travel-people-like-sound/docview/2871534577/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A viral video of Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken introduced Americans to the guitar geek hidden within.
It's usually not a good sign when video of a senior government official singing goes viral on social media, where the crowds are as tough as they come.
But when Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken picked up a black Fender guitar at a State Department event on Wednesday night and joined a band for Muddy Waters's "Hoochie Coochie Man," the response on X, the site formerly known as Twitter, where the video has been watched more than eight million times, drew positive reviews -- and more than a little shock.
"I had. NO. Idea," said one X user, who used an expletive to express her amazement, in the video's most-viewed reply.
To be sure, there was also snark of the don't-quit-your-day-job variety, and some tut-tutting about decorum ("Ukraine is on fire and Blinken is playing the guitar," one user said). But on the whole, Mr. Blinken's soulful baritone and crunchy blues chords, showcased at an event promoting a State Department "music diplomacy" initiative that was attended by the Foo Fighters frontman Dave Grohl, escaped the dreaded label of cringecore.
Perhaps more interesting was the understandable surprise that America's top diplomat has a rock 'n' roll bone in his body. Mr. Blinken, 61, is unfailingly soft-spoken and so formal that he wore his suit jacket -- buttoned, no less -- for the jam.
Music is Mr. Blinken's greatest nonpolitical passion. He once told Rolling Stone magazine that "the thread that runs throughout my life is probably music," and said that hearing his parents play "A Hard Day's Night" by the Beatles as a child was a thunderbolt that has defined him ever since. "I remember being absolutely hooked," Mr. Blinken said in an interview last week.
His great guitar love is Eric Clapton, whom Mr. Blinken reports having seen live about 75 times.
Mr. Clapton's bluesy style and frequent covers led Mr. Blinken to discover the electric blues greats like B.B. King, Otis Rush and Luther Allison. One of them discovered him back: While living in Paris with his family at the age of 16, Mr. Blinken worked his way to the front of the stage during a performance by Mr. King, singing along with the lyrics he had memorized completely.
"He sees me, I guess, and at the end he comes to the edge of the stage and bends down, and gives me his guitar pick," Mr. Blinken said, sounding as though his mind remains slightly blown.
As a young man, well before people called him "Mr. Secretary" and bodyguards followed him everywhere, Mr. Blinken played in bands and collected at least a half dozen guitars, including a high-end Martin acoustic "that I don't deserve," he said. Years of noodling at home with a four-track culminated in his release of three singles on Spotify, under the moniker Ablinken. (Say that out loud slowly for dad-joke effect.)
The Spotify songs, which have collectively been streamed about 150,000 times -- watch out, Harry Styles -- show off a blues-rock sound with Everyman lyrics that bear no relation to the government official who talks about multilateral engagement and "diplomatic variable geometry." ("And then I came home to you/But you said, 'Let's just be friends, yeah"' he sings over staccato electric chords in "Lip Service.")
Mr. Blinken noted that he had recorded and uploaded the songs between 2018 and 2020, during the Trump era, when he was out of government and unsure whether he would return. "I had little idea that there would be another run at government, or a public career of any kind," he said. "And so when the president put me forward for this job, there they were."
The songs, which he has labeled "wonk rock," occasionally pop up in his official life. They have been blared from speakers at overseas events, including before he addressed embassy employees in San José, the capital of Costa Rica, in June 2021. A Finnish radio station broadcast one when Mr. Blinken visited Helsinki in June to deliver a speech about the war in Ukraine.
Mr. Blinken's former band, which has played under the name of Cash Bar Wedding, was pretty cool, at least by the standards of Washington. His bandmates included Eli Attie, a former speechwriter for Vice President Al Gore who went on to be a writer for "The West Wing," and Jay Carney, a onetime spokesman for President Biden when Mr. Biden was vice president.
Mr. Carney called the band mostly "an excuse to hang out and talk about music." But the group was serious enough to take semiregular trips to music meccas like New Orleans, booking studios for a day of writing and recording songs.
"As to the quality of the songs we created, let's just say, mistakes were made!" said Mr. Carney, now head of policy and communications for Airbnb. They have jammed with indie-rock legends like Alex Chilton of Big Star, Grant Hart of Hüsker Dü and Aimee Mann.
"Tony is actually a fine guitarist and songwriter," Mr. Carney said. "We're worried his State Department gig is a sign that he's ditching us to launch a solo career."
Many foreign diplomats and leaders have clearly done their homework: No fewer than eight have given Mr. Blinken guitars or accessories like guitar straps as customary gifts (which he must purchase if he wants to keep). From Israel's foreign minister, Eli Cohen, came a blue acoustic guitar with an engraving of U.S. and Israeli flags. Another guitar was offered by Qin Gang, the Chinese foreign minister who mysteriously disappeared this summer.
In an interview, Mr. Blinken recalled a special rapport with Japan's former foreign minister, Yoshimasa Hayashi, a skilled pianist, guitar player and Beatles nut. "We totally bonded over music," Mr. Blinken said, calling it "a constant refrain in our diplomatic discourse."
That discourse could get nerdy. Invoking a famous Beatles track, Mr. Blinken recalled "bad pun references like, 'This policy's going to be a long and winding road."'
In April, Mr. Hayashi hosted a meeting of the Group of 7 foreign ministers in Hiroshima, Japan. When the ministers convened one evening after official business was concluded, Mr. Blinken produced a small travel guitar he sometimes takes on foreign trips. Mr. Hayashi brought his own. With the help of a karaoke machine, they strummed chords as the other ministers, briefly forgetting matters like Ukraine and climate change, joyously sang along.
"It's a wonderfully bonding thing to forget about the weight of the world for a couple of hours and come together just as friends with a common passion for music," Mr. Blinken said.
He noted that the United States has used music as a diplomatic tool for decades. Amid competition with the Soviet Union for global influence in the 1950s, the State Department sponsored foreign tours for jazz greats like Dizzy Gillespie, Quincy Jones, Louis Armstrong and Ella Fitzgerald.
Today's version lacks that star power: Mr. Blinken's new initiative includes a mentorship program for foreign music professionals that works in partnership with the Recording Academy, the organization that stages the Grammy Awards. English classes taught abroad by the State Department, which are hugely popular overseas, will now incorporate popular music lyrics.
"Music is the most powerful connecter," Mr. Blinken said. "It transcends virtually any kind of barrier you can think of."
Photograph Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken, center, performed at a State Department event last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Guitars; Bands; Presidents; Public officials; Diplomatic & consular services; Musical performances

Location: United States--US; Ukraine; Japan

People: Blinken, Antony J

Company / organization: Name: Beatles; NAICS: 711130; Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210

Title: He Has a Guitar and Will Travel, And People Like the Sound of It:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2871534577

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-has-guitar-will-travel-people-like-sound/docview/2871534577/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A New Era of Prosperity for Greece: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Alderman, Liz

Publication info: Alderman, Liz. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-era-prosperity-greece/docview/2870209851/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It is one of Europe's fastest-growing economies, and while investors and tourists are flocking to the country, memories of austerity measures are still fresh for Greeks.
Paris Skouros pointed toward the sky outside his office in Athens on a recent weekday. In the past six months, four high-rises had sprung up, built by Greek and international builders to be sold for use as tourist rentals, foreign real estate investments and company offices. Farther afield, a fresh crop of new buildings dotted the horizon.
Greece's financial crisis almost ruined his firm, Skouros & Sons, an elevator company. Years of harsh austerity measures imposed by international bailouts had been wrenching, Mr. Skouros said, as new construction ground to a standstill. But now an economic recovery has barreled in.
"During the crisis, we just wanted to survive," Mr. Skouros said, as the sound of hammers hitting sheet metal rang out in his workshop. "Now we're profitable, and business is so strong that we can't find enough workers to keep up with demand."
Laden with debt it couldn't pay back, Greece nearly broke the eurozone a decade ago. Today, it is one of Europe's fastest-growing economies. In a significant acknowledgment of the country's turnaround, credit ratings agencies have been upgrading their appraisal of Greece's debt, and opening the door for large foreign investors.
The economy is growing at twice the eurozone average, and unemployment, while still high at 11 percent, is the lowest in over a decade. Tourists have returned in droves, fueling a construction frenzy and new jobs. Multinational companies, like Microsoft and Pfizer, are investing. And banks that almost collapsed have cleaned up and are lending again, benefiting the broader economy.
Greece still faces risks. Its mountain of debt has shrunk, but at 166 percent of the economy, it's among the world's highest. The country's banks still hold a pile of nonperforming loans that is bigger than the European average. And the misery of austerity is still fresh for some people, made worse by stubbornly high inflation stoked by Russia's war in Ukraine.
The country's prime minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a business-friendly conservative politician, was re-elected by a landslide in June after being credited with spurring a recovery by reducing taxes and debt. The government cut red tape for businesses and raised the minimum wage. The country is even paying back international bailout money ahead of schedule.
Mr. Mitsotakis hailed Greece's return to investors' graces. "I will never allow us to relive the trauma of a national bankruptcy," he said a day after the latest upgrade.
Greece became the center of Europe's debt crisis after Wall Street imploded in 2008. Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus were also forced to take international bailouts. But Greece had it the worst, requiring three rescue packages from 2010 to 2015, totaling 320 billion euros, or $ 343 billion, with bitter austerity terms. Household incomes and pensions were slashed. The economy shrank by a quarter, and hundreds of thousands of businesses collapsed as banks shuttered. By 2013, nearly a third of Greeks were unemployed.
"We would have liked the austerity to be milder, but the measures were the Greek contribution to saving itself," said Yannis Stournaras, a former finance minister who is the governor of Greece's central bank and a member of the European Central Bank board. "Greece had to take these tough steps to survive."
Greece exited the bailout programs' strict fiscal controls in 2018, and the government's actions since then have earned confidence from the European Union. In 2021, Brussels policymakers approved another €30 billion for climate investments in Greece, part of a broader effort to bolster E.U. economies after Covid-19 lockdowns.
This month, DBRS Morningstar, a global credit rating agency recognized by the European Central Bank, raised Greece's debt rating to investment grade, a move that opens the door for pensions and other big investors to buy bonds issued by the government. And that will lower borrowing costs for households, businesses and the government after the E.C.B. has been raising interest rates to fight inflation.
Moody's, one of the largest credit ratings agencies, raised Greece's debt rating on Sept. 15 by two notches, just short of investment grade, citing "profound structural change" in the country's economy, finances and banking system.
Investors are jumping in. Microsoft is building a €1 billion data center east of Athens. Farther north, Pfizer is anchoring a €650 million research hub. American, Chinese and European companies are pitching renewable-energy deals. And investments by Cisco, JPMorgan, Meta and other multinationals are projected to have an economic impact worth billions of euros over the next few years.
Well over 10 million tourists swarmed into Greece this summer despite a spate of wildfires, bringing estimated revenues of over €21 billion. Construction has climbed on the mainland and on popular Greek islands, driven by a surging demand for hotels, Airbnb rentals and a program that lets foreigners get a visa to live in E.U. states if they buy at least €500,000 in real estate in Greece.
The activity has buoyed businesses like the one run by Mr. Skouros. The company, which he manages with his brother, John, was founded by their father in 1965. When orders dried up during the economic crisis, they pulled through by servicing elevators they had already installed around Athens.
Today, it has orders for elevators in 10 buildings, up from none during the crisis and Covid lockdowns. At around €20,000 per elevator, the firm is profitable again. Mr. Skouros raised salaries 10 percent and hired five more employees. He needs more technicians, but in a hot economy, he is no longer finding takers.
The comeback is moving so quickly that Mr. Skouros is worried about a real estate bubble forming. So he is steering clear of new high-rise construction that he fears could go bust, and targeting smaller residential buildings with sound finances.
For others, the economic upturn has yet to heal the scars from austerity.
Dmitris Mitrofinakis, 67, has struggled to bounce back from shuttering the home décor store that he ran for over 40 years, after draining his personal savings during the crisis to try to salvage it. When he retired in 2015, the pension that he had long paid into was slashed to €1,300 a month from the €2,400 he was supposed to get.
"The austerity imposed on Greece was too strict," said Mr. Mitrofinakis, who lives in a modest apartment with his wife in a working-class neighborhood, adding that he has little money left at the end of the month.
He sees signs that the economy is improving. "When you look around, people have more work and higher salaries," Mr. Mitrofinakis said. "But a lot of other people haven't recovered," he said, adding that many of his retired neighbors are struggling to make ends meet.
Roula Skouros, a hotel manager in the city of Tripoli, doesn't expect Greece's investment grade rating to improve her life. "Someone who maybe works at the bank or at the stock market probably is affected, but I'm not," said Ms. Skouros, who is not related to Paris Skouros.
Her paycheck has always hovered around the minimum wage, she said. But with inflation running rampant at the gas pump and grocery store, an improved economy "doesn't mean anything if you can't afford gas and food," Ms. Skouros said.
In a recent speech, Mr. Mitsotakis acknowledged the challenges and vowed to spread the recovery's benefits more widely. "We're not hiding behind investment grade, saying, 'We achieved an important goal -- let's turn to autopilot,"' he said.
His government announced that it aimed to raise the monthly minimum wage to €950 by the end of its four-year term after lifting it to €780 in April. Public-sector salaries will also increase for the first time since a 20 percent cut during the crisis to pay Greece's debts.
For Konstantinos Kanderakis, 62, a supervisor at Greece's digital services agency, the gains are meaningful. He earns €1,300 a month after a 35-year career in government, and he will get a €100 monthly increase after a decade in which his income had fallen.
"It's a big psychological boost," he said. "Greece is stable again, and what I am happy about is that things will be better for my children."
Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting from Athens.
Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting from Athens.
Photograph Saddled with debt, Greece nearly broke the eurozone a decade ago. Today, it is one of Europe's fastest-growing economies. But it still faces risks like nonperforming loans, inflation and Russia's war in Ukraine. (B1); A restaurant in Plaka, a tourist area of Athens. Over 10 million tourists visited Greece this summer despite a spate of wildfires, bringing in estimated revenues of over 21 billion euros. Hotels and Airbnb rentals are in high demand.; Yannis Stournaras, governor of Greece's central bank, said that after surviving the crisis, Greece was now growing faster than the rest of the eurozone. Unemployment, while still high at 11 percent, is the lowest in over a decade. (B6); Greece, which became the center of Europe's debt crisis after Wall Street imploded in 2008, is now experiencing a boom. Construction is resuming in Athens, left, and the Greek tourism sector has been revived, as seen at the port of Piraeus and an Athenian fish market, below. But some people, such as retirees, are still struggling from the effects of past austerity measures. (B6-B7); John and Paris Skouros, brothers who manage Skouros & Sons, at their offices in Athens. Greece's economic upswing has revived once-stricken companies like theirs. "Now we're profitable," Paris Skouros said.; Tourism is skyrocketing, stoking a construction frenzy for hotels, Airbnbs and other lodging on the mainland and Greek islands like Mykonos. Multinational companies, like Microsoft and Pfizer, have been investing as well. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCO ARGUELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6, B7.

Subject: Bailouts; COVID-19 vaccines; Minimum wage; Rating services; Investments; Credit ratings; Pensions; Central banks; Elevators & escalators; Eurozone; Rentals; Austerity policy; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Bailouts Minimum wage Rating services Credit ratings Pensions Central banks Eurozone Austerity policy Wages & salaries

Location: Russia; Greece; Ukraine; Europe

People: Stournaras, Yannis

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: European Central Bank; NAICS: 521110; Name: Pfizer Inc; NAICS: 325412, 339113

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/25/business/greece-economy-eurozone.html

Title: A New Era of Prosperity for Greece:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2870209851

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-era-prosperity-greece/docview/2870209851/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2866624808/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LODGING
In Crackdown, Airbnb Removes Fake Listings
Fake listings have emerged as a major problem for Airbnb, threatening to scare off consumers and prompting the short-term rental service to use artificial intelligence in an effort to crack down on fraudsters.
Airbnb says it has removed 59,000 fake listings and prevented another 157,000 from joining the platform this year.
Fake listings and high cleaning fees are among several issues that Airbnb said its users highlighted in a company survey. Others included high cleaning fees and a desire for lower prices.The San Francisco company said more than 260,000 listings have lowered or removed cleaning fees this year, since it gave consumers the means to sort listings in order of all-in pricing.
Airbnb says the change in how prices are displayed discourages hosts from touting low prices but piling on extra fees. However, only about one-third of Airbnb renters are using it. ASSOCIATED PRESS
EARNINGS
General Mills Exceeds Sales and Profit Forecasts
General Mills topped first-quarter sales and profit estimates on Wednesday as higher prices for its breakfast cereals, snack bars and pet food products helped offset slowing demand.
Packaged food makers have increased prices multiple times over the last year to counter the spiraling impact from higher labor and input costs.
The higher prices have helped expand top-line and margins, volumes have taken a hit as customers have been less willing to spend on expensive food items and shifted to cheaper private label alternatives.

Organic sales at North America retail segment grew 4 percent as it saw a "modest" rebuild of retailer inventory in the quarter after being hit by weaker demand in the previous quarter.
General Mills reported net sales of $ 4.91 billion compared with expectations of $ 4.88 billion, according to LSEG data. REUTERS
EXECUTIVES
Ex-Chief of Qantas Leaves With Windfall
Australia's Qantas Airways said its former chief executive took a pay increase of 872 percent as he collected years' worth of longterm incentives on the way out, but added that it was cutting and withholding hefty bonuses amid damaging lawsuits.
Alan Joyce, who retired this month after a regulator lawsuit accused Qantas of selling tickets on thousands of already-canceled flights, took home 21.4 million Australian dollars ( $ 13.9 million) in the 2023 financial year, according to the company's annual report, published on Wednesday
Most of the amount was sharebased incentives that Mr. Joyce was allowed to cash in after they vested, according to the report.
Qantas cut an additional shortterm bonus for Mr. Joyce by onefifth of the 2.7 million Australian dollars available and withheld it pending the outcome of two lawsuits that may result in hefty fines and further reputational turbulence, the report added. REUTERS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW KELLY/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Corporate profits

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: General Mills Inc; NAICS: 311230, 311511, 311824, 311991; Name: Qantas Airways Ltd; NAICS: 481111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/19/business/21bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 21, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866624808

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2866624808/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

City Crackdown on Airbnb Causes Housing Scramble: [National Desk]

Author: Zaveri, Mihir

Publication info: Zaveri, Mihir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/city-crackdown-on-airbnb-causes-housing-scramble/docview/2865442215/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hosts and guests are scrambling to adapt as the city ramps up its enforcement of tough, new rules on short-term rentals. But whether the crackdown will ease a housing shortage is up for debate.
Since 2018, Tricia Toliver, a freelance stage manager, has rented out the bottom floor of her Brooklyn townhouse through Airbnb, earning more than $ 3,000 a month by hosting visitors to New York City for a few days at a time.
But after city officials last week started enforcing rules prohibiting short-term rentals in apartments like hers, Ms. Toliver, 64, had to figure out what she would do with the South Slope apartment. She never wanted to be a landlord, she said, so she has decided to keep it empty in the hopes the rules change again.
"I'm kind of holding on to see what's going to happen," she said.
The new rules, which went into effect on Sept. 5, mean as many as 10,800 listings for short-term rentals will likely no longer be available, according to a city estimate from the end of March. City officials say the shift will force property owners to rent those homes to residents instead of visitors, helping to ease the city's housing shortage.
But to what degree that will happen, and how quickly, is not clear.
In the short-term, many hosts are scrambling: Some are now looking for tenants. Some are trying to figure out if they can rent to professors, nurses or others seeking temporary housing. Some hosts will likely keep renting, but through an underground market. And some, like Ms. Toliver, are waiting, hoping that backlash to the enforcement scheme will change things so she can rent the apartment out again.
In the long-term, some housing experts say, it remains an open question whether the new rules will help or hurt the New York City housing crisis and economy.
Alicia Glen, the previous deputy mayor for housing under former Mayor Bill de Blasio, said she never saw any data showing that short-term rentals were affecting the housing crisis in a significant way. Ms. Glen, who negotiated with Airbnb during her tenure, said such platforms have "opened up travel to hundreds of thousands of people who never would have had the opportunity to come to New York."
"As a New York booster, that's a great thing," she said.
A tax on short-term rentals, for example, could help the city better capitalize on Airbnb. "The key should be, how do you capture this new source of tourism and economic activity and direct it toward improving the life of New Yorkers," she added.
The main feature of the new rules is a requirement for residents to register with the city in order to rent homes out on a short-term basis. Short-term rentals are only allowed if the host is present during the stay and if there are two guests or less who can access the entire place.
To collect fees associated with the short-term stays, booking companies must now check that a host's registration application has been approved, or risk financial penalties: Platforms could be fined up to $ 1,500 for transactions involving illegal rentals. Hosts could also be fined.
While Airbnb said that some hosts were seeing delays in getting their applications processed, officials said the system had been successful so far, and that illegal listings were being removed from platforms like Airbnb, Booking.com and VRBO. They said that city agents had not yet responded to any complaints about hosts renting their homes out illegally in connection with the new system.
But the risk of a fine is too great for hosts like Aitan Weinberg, who bought a two-family brownstone in Prospect Heights about six years ago and regularly rented the apartment below his on Airbnb. Mr. Weinberg said the apartment, when it wasn't being rented to guests, was where his parents stayed when they visited from Israel.
But now, he is looking for a long-term tenant and estimates he will take a 40 to 50 percent drop in rental income. With no convenient hotels nearby, he's not sure where he'll house his parents during their trips or where his other guests, many visiting grandparents, will go.
"I genuinely think our guests and our neighbors or neighborhood have benefited from the existence of this," he said of Airbnb rentals like his.
Jason Mondesir-Caesar, 41, also owns a two-family home in Bedford-Stuyvesant where he used to rent out parts of it through Airbnb.
Mr. Mondesir-Caesar said the home, which has been in his family for decades, is co-owned by relatives who live elsewhere. He is looking for a tenant who can rent for a few months, in the event his relatives moved back.
"To be locked into a one- to two-year lease is not a good situation for me," he said.
While he understood the need for laws that stop people from buying and then renting multiple units illegally, he said he felt the current enforcement scheme would disproportionately penalize people who owned one- and two-family homes, and could also worsen New York City's housing problems.
"If I go into foreclosure, who's going to buy this house?" he said. "It's not somebody who was a tenant somewhere else."
Guests, also, may need to make other plans. Airbnb, for example, said it would honor reservations made through Dec. 1, but hosts may choose to cancel to avoid penalties.
Simon Feil, an actor living in Park Slope, said his wife's father, who has cancer and has a hard time walking, had hoped to travel to Brooklyn for his grandson's upcoming bar mitzvah.
Mr. Feil said he had found a place on Airbnb, but last week the listing "suddenly said bookings of less than 30 days are not accepted anymore."
Mr. Feil hasn't found another good option.
The new rules also have Ms. Toliver, the stage manager, pondering what she imagines would be a "worst case scenario" -- selling her building if she can't afford the mortgage any more.
"I've lived in New York for 40 years," she said. "I would hate it to be that the city forced me to do that."
Photograph Jason Mondesir-Caesar has rented out parts of his Brooklyn home on Airbnb. Now, he's seeking longer-term tenants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Fines & penalties; Families & family life; Rentals; Stage managers; Enforcement

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/16/nyregion/airbnb-nyc-housing-rentals.html

Title: City Crackdown on Airbnb Causes Housing Scramble:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865442215

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/city-crackdown-on-airbnb-causes-housing-scramble/docview/2865442215/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Holiday Blues: [Style Desk]

Author: Galanes, Philip

Publication info: Galanes, Philip. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-blues/docview/2862896619/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After his mother agreed to host him and his wife for Christmas, a reader is hurt by her decision to spend the holiday itself with her daughter instead.
My mother-in-law has been more and more stressed when my wife and I have visited for Christmas the past few years. We're not sure why, and she won't talk about it. So, we called my folks around Dec. 27 last year and asked if we could spend this Christmas with them. They said they were delighted. Then in June, my mom told us she wanted to celebrate early, on Dec. 22, so she could fly to California to spend the actual holiday with my sister and her kids. We said this was not what we had in mind. My dad agreed with us, but she held firm. We still plan to fly there and spend the holiday with my brother's family and my grandfather, but we're hurt. We reached out when we were feeling low, and then my mother changed plans on us at the last minute. Your thoughts?
SON
Let's start by acknowledging your hurt feelings: Your parents and your mother-in-law are coming up short for you at Christmas. But I feel for them, too: Your mother-in-law may be tired of creating big holidays at this stage of her life, and your mother may have felt trapped by your request, two days after Christmas, to lock down the next one. (Now, I wish she had said, "Let's talk about it" -- but you were hurting, and she's your mother. Can you see that?)
She also gave you six months' notice about the change of plans. That's not "last minute." (And we don't know anything about your sister's situation.) So, let's look at some adult options here: You and your wife can start your own holiday traditions at home, or you can travel. You could invite your mother-in-law to visit and put her feet up, join your parents in California, or simply keep your plans as they are.
Major holidays are often laden with major expectations (and triggers). I don't blame you for feeling bad about the switch-up. But holidays are fraught for everyone -- mothers included. We may be the starring players in our lives, but we are not the only players.
Charitable Donations Should Be Made Voluntarily
I attended a charity auction and bid on a long weekend at a large house upstate. I won it for $ 4,500 -- which I paid. I planned to use it for a ladies' golf weekend. The house was to be available through October 2023. But as I finalized our plans, I was told the house had been sold and was no longer available. I contacted the charity but got no response. Should I inform the former owners of the house (through a mutual friend) that they reneged on their offer, contact the charity again or chalk it up to a donation for nothing in return?
WINNING BIDDER
Reach out to the charity again -- this time, to the development officer or the executive director. Charities may not defraud consumers any more than for-profit businesses can. Now, it's possible that the people running the charity have no idea that the house was sold out from under you. But that's their problem to solve, not yours.
I see no reason to entangle mutual friends of the former owner in this mess. And I wouldn't convert your winning bid to a donation, either. That's not the deal you struck. You are entitled to a refund.
Treading Carefully in a Basement Apartment
I moved into a basement apartment in a house owned by six siblings on a lovely island. (My college roommate is married to one of the siblings.) The upstairs was to be used by family, but it has become a part-time Airbnb. When I complained about noise overhead, I was told the family needed the rental income to keep the house. Fine, but now I feel compelled to be super considerate to renters on vacation who show no consideration in return. I am afraid to bring up anything for fear of eviction. I'm looking for another situation, but housing is scarce here. (As I write this, renters are running the vacuum at 7:20 a.m.) Help!
RENTER
Let's assume that Airbnbs are permitted on this lovely island. (If not, that would apparently hasten the sale of the house -- and your eviction.) So, compile a list of issues that the renters create for you, along with sensible solutions: rugs and rug pads on the floors above you, for instance, and no loud appliances before 9 a.m. What sibling-landlord would object to that? You can double-check your rights as a tenant, but sticking up for yourself politely is not a breach of any lease.
Stop and Smell the Roses, but Put Away the Shears
I am an avid gardener of roses. I've spent a fortune collecting rare varieties -- some from overseas. I enjoy inviting people over to admire my lovely blooms, but I am annoyed when they ask for cuttings on the spot to propagate my roses in their gardens. I am generous with cuttings from other plants, but I hesitate to share my roses. How can I refuse without giving offense?
GARDENER
I get it: You've done the hard work, and you want to keep the fragrant fruits of your labor for yourself. How about: "I gladly share cuttings from other plants in my garden, but the roses are just for me. They are special. I hope you understand." I do.
For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com, to Philip Galanes on Facebook or to @SocialQPhilip on the platform X.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Families & family life; Donations; Holidays & special occasions; Charities; Christmas

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/06/style/family-holiday-travel-plans.html

Title: Holiday Blues:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 10, 2023

column: Social Q's

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862896619

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-blues/docview/2862896619/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Schools, Absenteeism Is the New Normal: [briefing]

Author: Leonhardt, David

Publication info: Leonhardt, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-schools-absenteeism-is-new-normal/docview/2862896593/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Attendance at school has come to feel more optional than it did before the pandemic.
If you're a child -- or a former child -- you know how hard it can be to summon the energy to leave the house each day for school. It's early in the morning, and you are tired. Maybe you have a test or a social situation that's making you anxious. Staying in bed often seems easier.
For as long as schools have existed, so have these morning struggles. Nonetheless, children overcame them almost every day, sometimes with a strong nudge from parents. Going to school was the normal thing to do.
Then, suddenly, it wasn't.
The long school closures during the Covid pandemic were the biggest disruption in the history of modern American education. And those closures changed the way many students and parents think about school. Attendance, in short, has come to feel more optional than it once did, and absenteeism has soared, remaining high even as Covid has stopped dominating everyday life.
On an average day last year -- the 2022-23 school year -- close to 10 percent of K-12 students were not there, preliminary state data suggests. About one quarter of U.S. students qualified as chronically absent, meaning that they missed at least 10 percent of school days (or about three and a half weeks). That's a vastly higher share than before Covid.
"I'm just stunned by the magnitude," said Thomas Dee, a Stanford economist who has conducted the most comprehensive study on the issue.
This surge of absenteeism is one more problem confronting schools as they reopen for a new academic year. Students still have not made up the ground they lost during the pandemic, and it's much harder for them to do so if they are missing from the classroom.
Losing the habit
In Dee's study, he looked for explanations for the trend, and the obvious suspects didn't explain it. Places with a greater Covid spread did not have higher lingering levels of absenteeism, for instance. The biggest reason for the rise seems to be simply that students have fallen out of the habit of going to school every day.
Consistent with this theory is the fact that absenteeism has risen more in states where schools remained closed for longer during the pandemic, like California and New Mexico (and in Washington, D.C.). The chart below shows the correlation between Dee's state data on chronic absenteeism and data from Thomas Kane, a Harvard economist, on the share of students in each state who in 2020-21 were enrolled in districts where most students were remote:
"For almost two years, we told families that school can look different and that schoolwork could be accomplished in times outside of the traditional 8-to-3 day," Elmer Roldan, who runs a dropout prevention group, told The Los Angeles Times. "Families got used to that."
Lisa Damour, a psychologist and the author of "The Emotional Lives of Teenagers," points out that parents think they are doing the right thing when they allow an anxious child to skip a day of school. She has deep empathy for these parents, she said. Doing so often makes the child feel better in the moment. But there are costs.
"The most fundamental thing for adults to understand is that avoidance feeds anxiety," Damour told me. "When any of us are fearful, our instinct is to avoid. But the problem with giving in to that anxiety is that avoidance is highly reinforcing." The more often students skip school, the harder it becomes to get back in the habit of going.
Aggravating inequality
I know that some readers will wonder whether families are making a rational choice by keeping their children home, given all the problems with schools today: the unhealthily early start times for many high schools; the political fights over curriculum; the bullying and the vaping; the inequalities that afflict so many areas of American life.
And the rise in chronic absenteeism is indeed a sign that schools need help. One promising step would be to make teaching a more appealing job, Damour notes, in order to attract more great teachers.
Still, it's worth remembering that the rise of absenteeism isn't solving these larger problems. It is adding to those problems.
Classrooms are more chaotic places when many students are there one day and missing the next. Educational inequality increases too, because absenteeism has risen more among disadvantaged students, including students with disabilities and those from lower-income households. "Studies show that even after adjusting for poverty levels and race, children who skip more school get significantly worse grades," The Economist explained recently.
As Hedy Chang, who runs Attendance Works, a nonprofit group focused on the problem, told The Associated Press, "The long-term consequences of disengaging from school are devastating."
Many schools are now trying to reduce absenteeism by reaching out to families. Some school officials are visiting homes in person, while others are sending texts to parents. (This Times story goes into more detail.)
It will be a hard problem to solve. Dee's study focused on 2021-22 -- which was two years ago, and the first year after the extended Covid closures -- but he notes that absenteeism appears to have fallen only slightly last year. In Connecticut, which has some of the best data (and lower absentee rates than most states), 7.8 percent of students missed school on an average day two years ago, a far higher level than before the pandemic. Last year, the rate dipped only to 7.6 percent.
More on education
Americans are losing faith in the value of college: 45 percent of Gen Z say that a high school diploma is all they need for financial security.
After the Supreme Court's affirmative action decision, students must decide whether to mention race in their college applications.
THE LATEST NEWS
China
China's biggest property developer, Country Garden, avoided default with a last-minute interest payment. But it has billions more to repay within the next year.
The company's troubles are part of a real estate crisis threatening China's economy.
Chinese people, sometimes posing as tourists, breached U.S. military sites up to 100 times in recent years in acts of potential espionage, The Wall Street Journal reports.
International
"Hostage diplomacy": Iran is using an imprisoned E.U. official as a bargaining chip against the West.
Pope Francis visited Mongolia. Few Chinese Catholics crossed the border to see him, seemingly because they were afraid their government would punish them.
Trailing in the polls with an election on the horizon, Britain's prime minister, Rishi Sunak, is turning to divisive issues like refugees and crime.
War in Ukraine
Volodymyr Zelensky, who removed Ukraine's defense minister after accusations of financial mismanagement, is struggling to eliminate corruption in his government.
Kim Jong-un is planning to visit Vladimir Putin in Russia to discuss supplying weapons.
People in a liberated Ukrainian village still lack electricity and water -- and mines are everywhere. See images of the devastation.
Politics
The impeachment trial of the Texas attorney general, which starts today, will be a fight over the future of the Republican Party.
Jill Biden tested positive for Covid, but President Biden did not.
Real Estate
The ground floors of buildings, long valuable real estate, are now empty in cities like San Francisco and Washington.
New York City begins restricting short-term home rentals today. Thousands of listings are expected to disappear from Airbnb.
Other Big Stories
A rescue team broke through Antarctic ice and flew helicopters on a dangerous mission to reach a sick worker at a research station.
An audit accused state troopers in Connecticut of faking thousands of traffic stops -- probably, it said, to game internal performance statistics.
Opinions
To strengthen free speech on campus, universities need to bring civic education back to the heart of curriculums, Debra Satz and Dan Edelstein write.
Here's a column by Michelle Goldberg on doppelgängers.
MORNING READS
Feathers and flags: New York's Caribbean community celebrated its heritage at a parade.
Fashion advice: Are you ever too old to wear vintage?
The Buffett look: The king of yacht rock influenced style as much as any designer.
Wellness retreat: The travel industry is catering to women who want help dealing with menopause.
Lives Lived: Marilyn Lovell became a celebrity as the wife of Jim Lovell, who captained the disaster-struck Apollo 13 moon mission. She died at 93.
SPORTS NEWS
Julio Urías: The Dodgers pitcher was arrested on a felony domestic violence charge.
College football: Duke toppled No. 9 Clemson last night, the first Blue Devils win over a top-10 opponent in 34 years.
An American upset: Madison Keys beat the No. 3 seed Jessica Pegula at the U.S. Open yesterday.
Playing today: Ben Shelton and Frances Tiafoe will face each other in an all-American quarterfinal tonight.
ARTS AND IDEAS
"The bass that made the Beatles": In 1961, Paul McCartney bought a bass guitar that he played as the Beatles became famous. It can be heard on songs like "Love Me Do" and "Twist and Shout." But it vanished eight years later, and has been missing since.
The Lost Bass Project, started by three Beatles fans, hopes to find it -- and hundreds of people have responded to a request for tips.
More on culture
Steve Harwell, the former singer of Smash Mouth, known for the '90s hits "All Star" and "Walkin' on the Sun," died at 56.
Thousands of people left the Burning Man festival after being stranded in the mud.
THE MORNING RECOMMENDS ...
Freshen up cold sesame noodles with cucumbers and corn.
Cook with the best skillet Wirecutter has ever tested.
Work from your sofa with the best lap desk.
Watch an N.F.L. season preview tonight on The CW.
GAMES
Here is today's Spelling Bee. Yesterday's pangrams were checkmate and matchmake.
And here are today's Mini Crossword, Wordle, Sudoku and Connections.
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow. -- David
Alain Delaquérière contributed research to today's newsletter.
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox . Reach our team at themorning@nytimes.com .
Photograph Classrooms are more chaotic places when many students are there one day and missing the next. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILANA PANICH-LINSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

ERIC Subject: Students with Disabilities; Equal Education; Dropout Prevention; Real Estate; College Applicants; Parents; Citizenship Education; Elementary Secondary Education; Family (Sociological Unit); COVID-19

Subject: Parents & parenting; Students; Schools; Pandemics; Families & family life; Absenteeism; Children & youth; Economists; Education; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Absenteeism Economists

Location: Connecticut; United States--US; China; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: Beatles; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/05/briefing/covid-school-absence.html

Title: At Schools, Absenteeism Is the New Normal:   [briefing ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 10, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2862896593

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-schools-absenteeism-is-new-normal/docview/2862896593/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Place to Plant Some Roots and Grow Memories: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kodé, Anna

Publication info: Kodé, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/place-plant-some-roots-grow-memories/docview/2862896570/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The actress found a place 'to plant roots' on a 300-acre estate in the Catskills: 'We just saw so much incredible nature here.'
Zooming around on an ATV at her property in the Catskills, a couple of hours north of New York City, Marcia Gay Harden pointed out various sights that sparked memories: a back road where she taught her children how to drive; a garden where they picked blueberries; a skate ramp one of her children built; the forsythia trees she planted in honor of her mother, who died in 2018.
"My mother said to always plant forsythia where people can see it, so it greets you, because it'll be the first thing in bloom," Ms. Harden said. "Every year when it blooms, I think, 'Oh, mother would be so proud.' It's the first thing you see as you come down the driveway."
An ATV was necessary to give a visitor the full tour in just one day -- the entire property, which sits on Gossamer Lake in Mountaindale, N.Y., encompasses around 300 acres, with a main house, a boathouse, a treehouse and a barn.
Last fall, Ms. Harden, 64, wrapped filming on "Knox Goes Away," a thriller with Michael Keaton and Al Pacino that will make its premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival in September. This fall, she is reprising her role as the acerbic reporter Maggie Brener in the third season of Apple TV's "The Morning Show," alongside Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer Aniston. But while Ms. Harden, who won a best supporting actress Oscar for her role as Lee Krasner in the 2000 film "Pollock," also has a home in Los Angeles, she spends most of her time off here in upstate New York. (This interview was conducted before the continuing strike by the SAG-AFTRA union.)
She has had this home since 1997 -- and that isn't something she takes lightly. Growing up, she said, "I was a Navy brat, so every year or two years we moved. We lived in eight different homes by the time I was 15."
She added: "This place, for me, was someplace to plant roots. Because I didn't have roots as a kid."
Marcia Gay Harden, 64
Occupation: Actor
How she knew she was home: "We just saw so much incredible nature here, and it moved us. There's a marsh; there's a bald eagle. As we walked around at dusk once, we saw a great horned owl in a tree. I think those were the things that sold us."
Many of the design decisions were made with her former husband, Thaddaeus Scheel, a prop master and director, who also helped build parts of the home. So deciding to keep the property after they divorced in 2012 wasn't easy.
"It was definitely a thoughtful process: How would I use this property?" she recalled thinking. "Were there too many memories? Would it be too painful?"
Eventually, she decided she wanted to hold onto it for stability, for herself and her children, Eulala Scheel, now 24, Julitta Harden Scheel, 19, and Hudson Harden Scheel, 19.
"I also think I wanted the kids to know that their dad had built it, and I never wanted to leave a relationship with this ongoing animosity," she said. Holding onto the home was a way to "teach my children that they can get out of a relationship, and they can break up, without demonizing the other person."
At that point, some might have made major renovations, to reclaim the property as their own or turn it into something new. But not Ms. Harden.
"I did think, 'Well, why haven't I done more to make it mine? Why didn't I tear down a wall?"' she said. "I realized it already was mine, and I didn't need to erase it -- I needed to hold onto it."
Instead, she spent time learning how the house worked: the air-conditioning, the plumbing and "all kinds of things that are really, for me, not the first thing that I want to be learning about," she said. "But I had to really learn a lot, because I thought, 'I can't just depend on someone else all the time."'
As for the décor, much of it reflects the surrounding wildlife. An owl lamp lights the den. A deer skull, displayed in the barn, is one of a number of "things we've collected from around here," Ms. Harden said. In a bathroom in the barn, tiles depict various creatures, including a dragonfly, an owl and a turtle.
The barn is also where Ms. Harden put the potbelly stove from the set of "Pollock." There's a moment in the film when Ed Harris, playing Jackson Pollock, is "stoking the flames of the stove," she said, "and that's kind of where he gets the idea for using dripping."
Upstairs, a disco ball and pool table are at the center of a wide-open space lined with bunk beds, where children and friends would often stay over. "It was like camp for the kids," Ms. Harden said. "In the summertime, it was all toys and fun and projects and puzzles and disco dancing."
The boathouse has an entirely different vibe. It was built for her mother, who had Alzheimer's disease, Ms. Harden said: "I thought I could care for her here, but she ended up meeting a man, and her life went in a different direction. When she didn't come, I turned it into a place where I did pottery."
Many of Ms. Harden's handmade mugs, bowls and dishes, along with those made by her children, are on display. Pottery is a hobby she began in the 1990s, while performing in "Angels in America." "I still consider myself a fledgling, because I don't do it all the time," said Ms. Harden, who plans to take a pottery class with her children in Italy.
Up the stairs of the boathouse, which are stacked with books -- some left behind by occasional Airbnb guests -- is Ms. Harden's office, lined with windows that offer 360-degree views of the woods and lake. This is where, surrounded by nature, she wrote much of her 2018 book, "The Seasons of My Mother: A Memoir of Love, Family, and Flowers."
"I love just coming up here and opening my windows," she said, "and just working and writing."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Clockwise, from left: Marcia Gay Harden in her Catskills home; her office in the boathouse; books leading the way up the boathouse stairs; a sketchbook from the movie "Pollock," in which she keeps track of her plantings; examples of pottery that she's made; Ms. Harden hiking in her woods. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE11.

Subject: Actors; Owls; Ceramics; Alzheimer's disease

People: Harden, Marcia Gay

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/29/realestate/marcia-gay-harden-home-catskills-ny.html

Title: A Place to Plant Some Roots and Grow Memories:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 10, 2023

column: At Home With

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--Unit ed States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862896570

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/place-plant-some-roots-grow-memories/docview/2862896570/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

One Month After the Lahaina Fire, Families and Residents Seek Closure

Author: Arango, Tim; Schell, Lisa L

Publication info: Arango, Tim; Schell, Lisa L. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-month-after-lahaina-fire-families-residents/docview/2862672630/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
It has been one month since a wind-whipped wildfire engulfed the historic Hawaiian town of Lahaina, and authorities are still trying to determine exactly how many people died in the nation’s deadliest conflagration in more than a century.
Nearly all of Lahaina has now been searched by teams of rescuers, cadaver dogs and anthropologists trained to detect fragments of human remains, yet the official death toll has stood at 115 people for more than two weeks.
That has meant an agonizing wait for the families of those still missing. On Friday, Gov. Josh Green of Hawaii announced that a list compiled by the FBI had been whittled down to 66, from more than 385 people a week ago.
The sharp decline in the number of missing people was a measure of good news, given that in the early days after the tragedy many expected the death toll to reach more than 1,000. Still, some families who have yet to find their loved ones have begun to accept the grim reality of loss.
Kimberly Buen said that only in the last week did she lose hope that her missing father could have survived the fire, after an FBI agent visited her home in Southern California to take a DNA sample.
“Every phone call I get, I think I’m getting that call, the call to tell me that they’ve matched my dad’s DNA, that they found him deceased,” Buen said. “Before, I was answering every call, ‘Oh, did they find him? Did they find him?’ And now, I’m in the mode, ‘Did we recover him?’”
Buen’s father, Maurice Buen, was a sport fisherman and would have turned 80 on Sept. 2. She said she had spent the last month calling, again and again, the FBI, the Red Cross, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Maui Police Department, the hospital in Honolulu that received burn victims, and the public housing authority that managed the building where her father lived.
In the chaos of the early days after the fire that raced down the hillsides to the shore of the Pacific Ocean, consuming neighborhoods and all manner of buildings, numerous survivors were stranded without cellphone service. With families desperately searching for loved ones, the list of the missing at one point swelled to more than 2,000.
But the FBI — after collecting various lists from shelters, the Red Cross and the Maui Police Department and cross-referencing them — reduced the number to 385 people a week ago. After receiving hundreds of updates by phone and email, the FBI has determined that 66 of those individuals remain unaccounted for.
Authorities have said they have confirmed 115 deaths, either by collecting sets of remains analyzed by DNA or through the discovery of bodies that were mostly intact; 60 of those have been identified, leaving 55 whose names remain unknown.
The last time the death toll changed was Aug. 21, the day that President Joe Biden visited Lahaina, a span of time that reflects the new phase of the recovery effort, as well as the likelihood that many people’s bodies were reduced to unrecoverable ash.
The actual death toll is unlikely to be determined for weeks or months. The lack of new information about the death count at this stage is similar to the aftermath of other disasters like the Camp fire, the 2018 Northern California blaze in which 85 people died, said Stephen Meer, the chief information officer of ANDE, a Colorado-based company whose rapid DNA technology has been used to identify victims in Lahaina.
He said that ANDE’s technicians have left Maui, and that determining the final death toll would now largely rely on slow-paced detective work — for instance, interviewing the family and friends of those missing to determine if they were in Lahaina that day and where. Authorities will have to determine whether their investigative results are sufficient to declare those still missing as dead.
“This is a very common thing,” Meer said. “This is exactly what we’d expect to see.”
Authorities still field calls from those who believe they have spotted someone on the list of missing people. The tips, while confusing, hearten family members who post continuously on social media and comb through Facebook posts.
“We’re still hoping to find them alive even though there’s a lot of news saying there’s no more chance,” said Manuel Ceralde, 52, whose mother-in-law and sister-in-law were last seen at their rented house on Mela Street in Lahaina when the fires broke out.
Ceralde said Revelina Baybayan Tomboc, 82, and her stepdaughter Bibiana Tomboc Lutriana, 59, immigrated from the Philippines about three decades ago. After a stint in California, they settled on Maui and had lived in Lahaina for about seven years. Tomboc had been a housekeeper but was retired, and Lutriana worked as a clerk at a retail store.
The two lived only a couple blocks from Ceralde and his wife, Claire, whose home burned. The couple now watch over their two children in tiny rooms at separate hotels, as they wait for news.
“It’s really hard,” Manuel Ceralde said. “Our beautiful house became ashes. And with them still missing, everything is lost for us.”
Lahaina today is a place of harsh contrasts, the burned out areas resembling the ash-filled ruins of Pompeii, down the road from a lush, manicured resort. One moment, the air is still acrid and smoky; the next, filled with the sweet scent of plumeria. Everywhere are makeshift memorials, with signs reading “Lahaina Strong” or “Pets are Family Members, too.”
Lahaina residents who survived the fires have been thrust into uncertainty, with nearly 7,000 people now living in hotels or Airbnb units after staying at shelters or in the homes of friends and family soon after the fire.
“Everyone’s going to struggle and suffer in this period, but we have to house people, we have to get them through to the next phase,” Gov. Josh Green of Hawaii said Wednesday. The government’s priority is getting people out of temporary housing and, with public assistance, into long-term rentals, he said.
The heart of Lahaina is still closed to the public — only searchers and workers from various government agencies have been allowed in. But Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator with the Maui Emergency Management Agency, said the county had moved closer toward allowing people to return and inspect their properties before the Army Corps of Engineers begins bulldozing and clearing debris.
Oliveira said the county wanted to let people who were “looking for closure” go back so they could see for themselves what happened, and so they could look for personal items that may be lying amid the dust and debris.
Eric Lee, 40, a guide with Maui Off-Road Adventures, lost his home in the fire, as did his mother, who lived on Front Street, along the ocean where some people died in their cars while stuck in evacuation traffic. For 48 hours after the fire, Lee had no idea where his mother was. “I was freaking out for two days and finally found her,” he said Thursday, his voice shaking with emotion.
Lee is living in a vacation rental, with the help of the Red Cross, and is making a point to keep enjoying what he loves about Maui, like the ocean.
“I have hope because I love this place,” he said. “I love Lahaina. It is everything that I know. It’s the people that I see in this place, smiling and together.”
In the weeks after the fire, Maui felt as if it were in a state of suspended animation, with traumatized residents seeking out information and trying to comprehend the scale of the loss. Last Friday, the process of communal grieving began, with sunrise ceremonies held in locations across Maui, Molokai, the island of Hawaii, Oahu and Kauai.
Pastor John Crewe went to the vigil because he wanted to be in the presence of those praying for Maui. His church, Lahaina United Methodist Church, had burned, but he said everyone in his congregation had made it out safely.
“What encourages me is seeing everybody together,” Crewe said. “There is a theme of gratitude and connectedness. And to rebuild after this, we’re going to need that.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Genetic testing; Forest & brush fires; Rentals; Sharks; Social networks; Human remains

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Hawaii; New York; United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Immigration And Emigration; Kauai (Hawaii); Airbnb; Pacific Ocean; Arango, Tim; Real Estate (Commercial); Fires And Firefighters; Honolulu (Hawaii); Forensic Science; Green, Josh (1970 ); Archaeology And Anthropology; Privacy; Lahaina (Hawaii); Pets; Philippines; United States; Maui (Hawaii); Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); California; Dna (Deoxyribonucleic Acid); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Police; Rescues; Social Media; Love (Emotion); Army Corps Of Engineers; Crosses And Crucifixes; Wildfires; Fishing, Commercial; Oahu (Hawaii); Pompeii (Italy); News And News Media; Accidents And Safety; Facebook Inc; Deaths (Fatalities); Molokai (Hawaii); Churches (Buildings); Public And Subsidized Housing; Colorado; Hawaii; Missing Persons; Travel And Vacations; United Methodist Church; Federal Emergency Management Agency; American Red Cross; Roads And Traffic; Funerals And Memorials; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: One Month After the Lahaina Fire, Families and Residents Seek Closure

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 9, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-09T00:06:33Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862672630

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-month-after-lahaina-fire-families-residents/docview/2862672630/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Month After Maui Inferno, the Exact Death Toll Is Still Undetermined: [National Desk]

Author: Arango, Tim; Schell, Lisa L

Publication info: Arango, Tim; Schell, Lisa L. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/month-after-maui-inferno-exact-death-toll-is/docview/2862589907/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Many residents have begun to accept that their loved ones will not be coming back, and survivors wonder what comes next.
It has been one month since a wind-whipped wildfire engulfed the historic Hawaiian town of Lahaina, and the authorities are still trying to determine exactly how many people died in the nation's deadliest conflagration in more than a century.
Nearly all of Lahaina has now been searched by teams of rescuers, cadaver dogs and anthropologists trained to detect fragments of human remains, yet the official death toll has stood at 115 people for more than two weeks.
That has meant an agonizing wait for the families of those still missing. On Friday, Gov. Josh Green of Hawaii announced that a list compiled by the F.B.I. had been whittled down to 66, from more than 385 people a week ago.
The sharp decline in the number of missing people was a measure of good news, given that in the early days after the tragedy many expected the death toll to reach more than a thousand. Still, some families who have yet to find their loved ones have begun to accept the grim reality of loss.
Kimberly Buen said that only in the last week did she lose hope that her missing father could have survived the fire, after an F.B.I. agent visited her home in Southern California to take a DNA sample.
"Every phone call I get, I think I'm getting that call, the call to tell me that they've matched my dad's DNA, that they found him deceased," Ms. Buen said. "Before, I was answering every call, 'Oh, did they find him? Did they find him?' And now, I'm in the mode, 'Did we recover him?"'
Ms. Buen's father, Maurice Buen, was a sport fisherman and would have turned 80 on Sept. 2. She said she had spent the last month calling, again and again, the F.B.I., the Red Cross, FEMA, the Maui Police Department, the hospital in Honolulu that received burn victims, and the public housing authority that managed the building where her father lived.
In the chaos of the early days following the fire that raced down the hillsides to the shore of the Pacific Ocean, consuming neighborhoods and all manner of buildings, numerous survivors were stranded without cellphone service. With families desperately searching for loved ones, the list of the missing at one point swelled to more than 2,000.
But the F.B.I. -- after collecting various lists from shelters, the Red Cross and the Maui Police Department and cross-referencing them -- whittled the number down to 385 people a week ago. After receiving hundreds of updates by phone and email, the F.B.I. has determined that only 66 of those individuals remain unaccounted for.
The authorities have said that they have confirmed 115 deaths, either by collecting sets of remains analyzed by DNA or through the discovery of bodies that were mostly intact; 60 of those have been identified, leaving 55 whose names remain unknown.
The last time the death toll changed was on Aug. 21, the day that President Biden visited Lahaina, a span of time that reflects the new phase of the recovery effort, as well as the likelihood that many people's bodies were reduced to unrecoverable ash.
The actual death toll is unlikely to be determined for weeks or months. The lack of new information about the death count at this stage is similar to the aftermath of other disasters like the Camp fire, the 2018 Northern California blaze in which 85 people died, said Stephen Meer, the chief information officer of ANDE, a Colorado-based company whose rapid DNA technology has been used to identify victims in Lahaina.
He said that ANDE's technicians have left Maui, and that determining the final death toll would now largely rely on slow-paced detective work -- for instance, interviewing the family and friends of those missing to determine if they were in Lahaina that day and where. The authorities will have to determine whether their investigative results are sufficient to declare those still missing as dead.
"This is a very common thing," Mr. Meer said. "This is exactly what we'd expect to see."
Authorities still field calls from those who believe they have spotted someone on the list of missing people. The tips, while confusing, hearten family members who post continuously on social media and comb through Facebook posts.
"We're still hoping to find them alive even though there's a lot of news saying there's no more chance," said Manuel Ceralde, 52, whose mother-in-law and sister-in-law were last seen at their rented house on Mela Street in Lahaina when the fires broke out.
Mr. Ceralde said Revelina Baybayan Tomboc, 82, and her stepdaughter Bibiana Tomboc Lutriana, 59, immigrated from the Philippines about three decades ago. After a stint in California, they settled on Maui and had lived in Lahaina for about seven years. Ms. Tomboc had been a housekeeper but was retired, and Ms. Lutriana worked as a clerk at a retail store.
The two lived only a couple blocks from Mr. Ceralde and his wife, Claire, whose home burned. The couple now watch over their two children in tiny rooms at separate hotels, as they wait for news.
"It's really hard," Mr. Ceralde said. "Our beautiful house became ashes. And with them still missing, everything is lost for us."
Lahaina today is a place of harsh contrasts, the burned out areas resembling the ash-filled ruins of Pompeii, down the road from a lush, manicured resort. One moment, the air is still acrid and smoky; the next, filled with the sweet scent of plumeria. Everywhere are makeshift memorials, with signs reading "Lahaina Strong" or "Pets are Family Members, too."
Lahaina residents who survived the fires have been thrust into uncertainty, with nearly 7,000 people now living in hotels or Airbnb units after staying at shelters or in the homes of friends and family soon after the fire.
"Everyone's going to struggle and suffer in this period, but we have to house people, we have to get them through to the next phase," Governor Green said on Wednesday. The government's priority is getting people out of temporary housing and, with public assistance, into long-term rentals, he said.
The heart of Lahaina is still closed to the public -- only searchers and workers from various government agencies have been allowed in. But Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator with the Maui Emergency Management Agency, said the county had moved closer toward allowing people to return and inspect their properties before the Army Corps of Engineers begins bulldozing and clearing debris.
Mr. Oliveira said the county wanted to let people who were "looking for closure" go back so they could see for themselves what happened, and so they could look for personal items that may be lying amid the dust and debris.
Eric Lee, 40, a guide with Maui Off-Road Adventures, lost his home in the fire, as did his mother, who lived on Front Street, along the ocean where some people died in their cars while stuck in evacuation traffic. For 48 hours after the fire, Mr. Lee had no idea where his mother was. "I was freaking out for two days and finally found her," he said on Thursday, his voice shaking with emotion.
Mr. Lee is living in a vacation rental, with the help of the Red Cross, and is making a point to keep enjoying what he loves about Maui, like the ocean.
"I have hope because I love this place," he said. "I love Lahaina. It is everything that I know. It's the people that I see in this place, smiling and together."
In the weeks after the fire, Maui felt as if it were in a state of suspended animation, with traumatized residents seeking out information and trying to comprehend the scale of the loss. Last Friday, the process of communal grieving began, with sunrise ceremonies held in locations across Maui, Molokai, the island of Hawaii, Oahu and Kauai.
Pastor John Crewe went to the vigil because he wanted to be in the presence of those praying for Maui. His church, Lahaina United Methodist Church, had burned, but he said everyone in his congregation had made it out safely.
"What encourages me is seeing everybody together," Mr. Crewe said. "There is a theme of gratitude and connectedness. And to rebuild after this, we're going to need that."
Corina Knoll contributed reporting.
Corina Knoll contributed reporting.
Photograph Nearly all of Lahaina, Maui, has been searched by rescue teams. The death toll has stood at 115 people for weeks. At left, people prayed and placed flowers on a hill above Lahaina last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GO NAKAMURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRYAN ANSELM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Genetic testing; Forest & brush fires; Rentals; Evacuations & rescues; Social networks; Human remains

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Hawaii; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/08/us/lahaina-fire-families.html

Title: A Month After Maui Inferno, the Exact Death Toll Is Still Undetermined:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 9, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862589907

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/month-after-maui-inferno-exact-death-toll-is/docview/2862589907/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Over 380 People Remain on Missing List Month After Wildfire on Maui

Author: Arango, Tim; Schell, Lisa L

Publication info: Arango, Tim; Schell, Lisa L. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/over-380-people-remain-on-missing-list-month/docview/2862635896/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
It has been one month since a wind-whipped wildfire engulfed the historic Hawaiian town of Lahaina, and authorities are still trying to determine exactly how many people died in the nation’s deadliest conflagration in more than a century.
Nearly all of Lahaina has now been searched by teams of rescuers, cadaver dogs and anthropologists trained to detect fragments of human remains, yet the official death toll has stood at 115 people for more than two weeks.
That has meant an agonizing wait for the families of more than 380 people whose names populate a list that the FBI says it is still trying to reconcile, even as many loved ones have begun to accept the grim reality of loss.
Kimberly Buen said that only in the last week did she lose hope that her missing father could have survived the fire, after an FBI agent visited her home in Southern California to take a DNA sample.
“Every phone call I get, I think I’m getting that call, the call to tell me that they’ve matched my dad’s DNA, that they found him deceased,” Buen said. “Before, I was answering every call, ‘Oh, did they find him? Did they find him?’ And now, I’m in the mode, ‘Did we recover him?’”
Buen’s father, Maurice Buen, was a sport fisherman and would have turned 80 on Sept. 2. She said she had spent the last month calling, again and again, the FBI, the Red Cross, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Maui Police Department, the hospital in Honolulu that received burn victims, and the public housing authority that managed the building where her father lived.
In the chaos of the early days after the fire that raced down the hillsides to the shore of the Pacific Ocean, consuming neighborhoods and all manner of buildings, numerous survivors were stranded without cellphone service. With families desperately searching for loved ones, the list of the missing at one point swelled to more than 2,000.
But the FBI — after collecting various lists from shelters, the Red Cross and the Maui Police Department and cross-referencing them — whittled the number down to 385 people at last count. The figure included two victims whose remains have since been confirmed to be among the dead. At the same time, the Maui Police Department said it was actively investigating 41 missing persons cases and had asked relatives of those on the FBI’s list to also file missing persons reports if they had not already.
Authorities have said they had confirmed 115 deaths, either by collecting sets of remains analyzed by DNA or through the discovery of bodies that were mostly intact; 55 of those have been identified and their names announced. Five more people have been identified, but their names have not yet been released because authorities have not been able to notify their families.
The last time the death toll changed was Aug. 21, the day that President Joe Biden visited Lahaina, a span of time that reflects the new phase of the recovery effort, as well as the likelihood that many people’s bodies were reduced to unrecoverable ash.
The actual death toll is unlikely to be determined for weeks or months. The lack of new information about the death count at this stage is similar to the aftermath of other disasters like the Camp fire, the 2018 Northern California blaze in which 85 people died, said Stephen Meer, the chief information officer of ANDE, a Colorado-based company whose rapid DNA technology has been used to identify victims in Lahaina.
He said that ANDE’s technicians have left Maui, and that determining the final death toll would now largely rely on slow-paced detective work — for instance, interviewing the family and friends of those missing to determine if they were in Lahaina that day and where. Authorities will have to determine whether their investigative results are sufficient to declare those still missing as dead.
“This is a very common thing,” Meer said. “This is exactly what we’d expect to see.”
Authorities still field calls from those who believe they have spotted someone on the list of missing people. The tips, while confusing, hearten family members who post continuously on social media and comb through Facebook posts.
“We’re still hoping to find them alive even though there’s a lot of news saying there’s no more chance,” said Manuel Ceralde, 52, whose mother-in-law and sister-in-law were last seen at their rented house on Mela Street in Lahaina when the fires broke out.
Ceralde said Revelina Baybayan Tomboc, 82, and her stepdaughter Bibiana Tomboc Lutriana, 59, immigrated from the Philippines about three decades ago. After a stint in California, they settled on Maui and had lived in Lahaina for about seven years. Tomboc had been a housekeeper but was retired, and Lutriana worked as a clerk at a retail store.
The two lived only a couple blocks from Ceralde and his wife, Claire, whose home burned. The couple now watch over their two children in tiny rooms at separate hotels, as they wait for news.
“It’s really hard,” Manuel Ceralde said. “Our beautiful house became ashes. And with them still missing, everything is lost for us.”
Lahaina today is a place of harsh contrasts, the burned out areas resembling the ash-filled ruins of Pompeii, down the road from a lush, manicured resort. One moment, the air is still acrid and smoky; the next, filled with the sweet scent of plumeria. Everywhere are makeshift memorials, with signs reading “Lahaina Strong” or “Pets are Family Members, too.”
Lahaina residents who survived the fires have been thrust into uncertainty, with nearly 7,000 people now living in hotels or Airbnb units after staying at shelters or in the homes of friends and family soon after the fire.
“Everyone’s going to struggle and suffer in this period, but we have to house people, we have to get them through to the next phase,” Gov. Josh Green of Hawaii said Wednesday. The government’s priority is getting people out of temporary housing and, with public assistance, into long-term rentals, he said.
The heart of Lahaina is still closed to the public — only searchers and workers from various government agencies have been allowed in. But Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator with the Maui Emergency Management Agency, said the county had moved closer toward allowing people to return and inspect their properties before the Army Corps of Engineers begins bulldozing and clearing debris.
Oliveira said the county wanted to let people who were “looking for closure” go back so they could see for themselves what happened, and so they could look for personal items that may be lying amid the dust and debris.
Eric Lee, 40, a guide with Maui Off-Road Adventures, lost his home in the fire, as did his mother, who lived on Front Street, along the ocean where some people died in their cars while stuck in evacuation traffic. For 48 hours after the fire, Lee had no idea where his mother was. “I was freaking out for two days and finally found her,” he said Thursday, his voice shaking with emotion.
Lee is living in a vacation rental, with the help of the Red Cross, and is making a point to keep enjoying what he loves about Maui, like the ocean.
“I have hope because I love this place,” he said. “I love Lahaina. It is everything that I know. It’s the people that I see in this place, smiling and together.”
In the weeks after the fire, Maui felt as if it were in a state of suspended animation, with traumatized residents seeking out information and trying to comprehend the scale of the loss. Last Friday, the process of communal grieving began, with sunrise ceremonies held in locations across Maui, Molokai, the island of Hawaii, Oahu and Kauai.
Pastor John Crewe went to the vigil because he wanted to be in the presence of those praying for Maui. His church, Lahaina United Methodist Church, had burned, but he said everyone in his congregation had made it out safely.
“What encourages me is seeing everybody together,” Crewe said. “There is a theme of gratitude and connectedness. And to rebuild after this, we’re going to need that.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Genetic testing; Police departments; Missing persons; Social networks; Forest & brush fires; Rentals; Sharks; Human remains

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Hawaii

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Immigration And Emigration; Kauai (Hawaii); Airbnb; Pacific Ocean; Arango, Tim; Real Estate (Commercial); Fires And Firefighters; Honolulu (Hawaii); Forensic Science; Green, Josh (1970 ); Archaeology And Anthropology; Privacy; Lahaina (Hawaii); Pets; Philippines; United States; Maui (Hawaii); Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); California; Dna (Deoxyribonucleic Acid); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Police; Rescues; Social Media; Love (Emotion); Army Corps Of Engineers; Crosses And Crucifixes; Wildfires; Fishing, Commercial; Oahu (Hawaii); Pompeii (Italy); News And News Media; Accidents And Safety; Facebook Inc; Deaths (Fatalities); Molokai (Hawaii); Churches (Buildings); Public And Subsidized Housing; Colorado; Hawaii; Missing Persons; Travel And Vacations; United Methodist Church; Federal Emergency Management Agency; American Red Cross; Roads And Traffic; Funerals And Memorials; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Over 380 People Remain on Missing List Month After Wildfire on Maui

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-08T22:12:59Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862635896

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/over-380-people-remain-on-missing-list-month/docview/2862635896/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 8, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How the NFL Used Supercomputers to Set Its TV (and Streaming) Schedule

Author: Belson, Ken

Publication info: Belson, Ken. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-nfl-used-supercomputers-set-tv-streaming/docview/2861856277/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The announcement of the NFL’s opening matchup is meant to be a curtain raiser for the regular season. But when this year’s season opener was announced in May, the participants were the ones who raised their eyebrows.
As is the norm, the first game will feature the reigning Super Bowl champions, the Kansas City Chiefs. But the schedule makers decided not to pit the team against a storied rival or a vanquished opponent from last season’s playoffs. Instead, Kansas City will open the NFL season Thursday night against the Detroit Lions, another small-market team.
Their selection was a head-scratcher, even for the Lions. The team won eight of 10 games to end the 2022 season, but coach Dan Campbell figured the league picked his team, in part, because it would be just competitive enough against a Kansas City team that would be the real TV draw.
“If I’m being totally honest with you about why they would give us Kansas City, yeah, well, you finished the year a certain way but they’re also betting on we won’t get” blown out, Campbell said in May.
The choice of opponent was a sign of the NFL’s increasingly analytical approach to creating its 272-game regular-season schedule. For more than a century, the league relied on a balance of instinct, common sense and computers in slating games. But seismic shifts in pro football, and the way it is consumed, have complicated matters.
The NFL added an extra game to the season for each team in 2021, the same year new media deals increased revenues and the number of platforms that broadcast matchups.
Besides inking a seven-year deal with YouTube in December for the rights to stream out-of-market games this season, the league has expanded flexibility to reschedule games as needed to dole out compelling matchups to CBS, Fox, Amazon Prime, NBC, Peacock, ABC and ESPN. The league has also added games in unusual time slots, including a tripleheader on Christmas Day, a first; a game on Black Friday; and games on some Saturdays. Regular-season games will be played in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom.
To appease companies that have collectively spent more than $110 billion on rights fees, and to manage existing variables like travel and other major TV events, “the problems have just gotten bigger and harder to solve,” said Mike North, who took over as the chief scheduler this year. “There’s a lot of people that are counting on us, and we owe everybody.”
As soon as the Super Bowl ended in February, the NFL used high-powered computers that produced a quadrillion possible schedule combinations. To create this season’s calendar, the league relied on Amazon Web Services, as well as software from Optimal Planning Solutions, a Canadian company, and Recentive Analytics in Boston. Recentive’s software collects data from 1,200 sources, including Airbnb, Amtrak, gambling sites, jersey sales, ticket data and non-football events on television to determine demand for a game.
“Demand for a football game is very much an equation about football demand on its own, plus demand for everything else,” said Andy Tabrizi, a founder of the company. “We really focus on a combination of things that are directly tied to football and behaviors that may not seem like they do but impact people’s time, money and awareness.”
Abandoning its longtime approach of manually blocking out pro football’s traditional anchors, like Thanksgiving Day matchups and division rivalries in the last weeks of the regular season, the NFL instead focused on producing the highest overall viewership for the season across all platforms, not just prime-time broadcasts on the free over-the-air TV networks.
It fed to its computers dozens of variables that could affect demand for certain teams in certain time slots, including recent trades of certain players, like Aaron Rodgers, and the preferences of the teams and broadcasters.
“We find the most important, most interesting games first, and then solve around them,” North said. “Instead of committing to a game or two for each network right off the bat, we got a pool of games together, say the 10 or 15 best, and spread them around across our partners. Which one we might end up with who could change by the day, right up until the last minute.”
The Chiefs, perhaps the team most in demand, are scheduled to play on each of the league’s media partners’ platforms, as are the New York Jets, who made the biggest trade of the offseason, acquiring Rodgers. They will face off in Week 4, on Oct. 1, on NBC’s “Sunday Night Football.” The league’s computers slotted the Super Bowl rematch between Kansas City and the Philadelphia Eagles for Week 11, on Nov. 20, in a “Monday Night Football” game for ESPN.
Optimizing for ratings across all platforms has beefed up Thursday night offerings, which had been plagued by bad matchups and teams that disliked playing midweek. Amazon Prime will stream a matchup between the Eagles and Minnesota Vikings in Week 2, for example, and also has a highly anticipated rivalry, Cincinnati Bengals vs. Baltimore Ravens, in Week 11, on Nov. 16.
The Sunday lineups will also see a shake-up. Games in the two afternoon time slots had been assigned based on the conference affiliation of the road team, with visiting AFC teams shown on CBS and visiting NFC teams on Fox. That meant CBS had almost as many New England Patriots games as Fox had Dallas Cowboys games, the most popular teams boosting those broadcasts.
The league now has the flexibility to reassign games at 4:25 p.m. Eastern, the more watched Sunday afternoon slot, regardless of the broadcaster. The NFL uses Recentive’s software during the season to determine which games to move, or flex, into prime time.
Beyond the Kansas City-Detroit matchup, Week 1 underscores league priorities. The 1 p.m. matchups seem randomly generated (Houston Texans vs. Ravens! Arizona Cardinals vs. Washington Commanders!), with the league slotting a storied rivalry (Green Bay Packers vs. Chicago Bears) later in the afternoon, a salty divisional match (Cowboys vs. New York Giants) in prime time and the jewel of the first week — Buffalo Bills vs. Jets — in the coveted “Monday Night Football” window.
With intriguing matchups more in demand than ever, computer modeling leaves less room for network executives to lobby NFL officials for specific games. “It makes sense because everyone’s going to have a competing claim that they’re as important,” said Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at MoffettNathanson. “When you slice the packages as much as the league has sliced them, and the networks are paying what they’re paying in light of the challenges in linear television, people do have a higher claim in their eyes for getting better games.”
The data-first approach is a far cry from the 1970s, when Val Pinchbeck, a longtime league executive, manually created the schedule using tags for each team that he hung on a peg board to fill out what was then a 224-game jigsaw puzzle.
Some network executives said that in years past, they had a good sense of the biggest matchups they would broadcast a few weeks before the schedule was announced. While they rue the new, more data-driven approach, they recognize how hard it is to create a schedule that evenly distributes the most sought-after matchups while avoiding bad games in prime time.
Still, some networks are delighted with how the league has distributed the games, at least this year.
“Our schedule this year is better than it’s ever been,” Sean McManus, the chair of CBS Sports, told reporters last week. McManus was particularly happy that CBS would broadcast eight Kansas City games and eight with the Jets.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Professional football; Software; Computers; Athletic drafts & trades; Prime time

Location: New York; United States--US; Kansas City Missouri; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Amazon.com Inc; NAICS: 334310, 454110, 518210; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

Identifier / keyword: New England States (Us); England; Baltimore Ravens; Computers And The Internet; Peacock Services; Belson, Ken; New York Jets; Kansas City Chiefs; Philadelphia Eagles; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Houston (Tex); Cbs Sports; Detroit Lions; Minnesota Vikings; Great Britain; United States; New York Giants; Super Bowl; Cloud Computing; Sports; Arizona; Canada; Abc Inc; Fox Broadcasting Co; Airbnb; Espn; Cbs Corporation; Washington Commanders; Arizona Cardinals; Germany; Supercomputers; Baltimore (Md); News And News Media; YoutubeCom; Buffalo Bills; Chicago Bears; Kansas; Data Mining And Database Marketing; Minnesota; Dallas Cowboys; Cincinnati Bengals; Houston Texans; Fox News Channel; Boston (Mass); Philadelphia (Pa); Television; National Broadcasting Co; Campbell, Dan (1976 ); Football; Green Bay Packers

Title: How the NFL Used Supercomputers to Set Its TV (and Streaming) Schedule

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 7, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-07T00:34:41Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2861856277

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-nfl-used-supercomputers-set-tv-streaming/docview/2861856277/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

It Borders on Rocket Science: [Sports Desk]

Author: Belson, Ken

Publication info: Belson, Ken. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/borders-on-rocket-science/docview/2861547323/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The N.F.L. leaned into optimizing its 2023 schedule for TV (and streaming), turning to high-powered computers rather than football tradition to create matchups.
The announcement of the N.F.L.'s opening matchup is meant to be a curtain raiser for the regular season. But when this year's season opener was announced in May, the participants were the ones who raised their eyebrows.
As is the norm, the first game will feature the reigning Super Bowl champions, the Kansas City Chiefs. But the schedule makers decided not to pit the team against a storied rival or a vanquished opponent from last season's playoffs. Instead, Kansas City will open the N.F.L. season on Thursday night against the Detroit Lions, another small-market team.
Their selection was a head-scratcher, even for the Lions. The team won eight of 10 games to end the 2022 season, but Coach Dan Campbell figured the league picked his team, in part, because it would be just competitive enough against a Kansas City team that would be the real TV draw.
"If I'm being totally honest with you about why they would give us Kansas City, yeah, well, you finished the year a certain way but they're also betting on we won't get" blown out, Campbell said in May.
The choice of opponent was a sign of the N.F.L.'s increasingly analytical approach to creating its 272-game regular-season schedule. For more than a century, the league relied on a balance of instinct, common sense and computers in slating games. But seismic shifts in pro football, and the way it is consumed, have complicated matters.
The N.F.L. added an extra game to the season for each team in 2021, the same year new media deals increased revenues and the number of platforms that broadcast matchups.
Besides inking a seven-year deal with YouTube in December for the rights to stream out-of-market games this season, the league has expanded flexibility to reschedule games as needed to dole out compelling matchups to CBS, Fox, Amazon Prime, NBC, Peacock, ABC and ESPN. The league has also added games in unusual time slots, including a tripleheader on Christmas Day, a first; a game on Black Friday; and games on some Saturdays. Regular-season games will be played in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom.
To appease companies that have collectively spent more than $ 110 billion on rights fees, and to manage existing variables like travel and other major TV events, "the problems have just gotten bigger and harder to solve," said Mike North, who took over as the chief scheduler this year. "There's a lot of people that are counting on us, and we owe everybody."
As soon as the Super Bowl ended in February, the N.F.L. used high-powered computers that produced a quadrillion possible schedule combinations. To create this season's calendar, the league relied on Amazon Web Services, as well as software from Optimal Planning Solutions, a Canadian company, and Recentive Analytics in Boston. Recentive's software collects data from 1,200 sources, including Airbnb, Amtrak, gambling sites, jersey sales, ticket data and non-football events on television to determine demand for a game.
"Demand for a football game is very much an equation about football demand on its own, plus demand for everything else," Andy Tabrizi, a founder of the company, said. "We really focus on a combination of things that are directly tied to football and behaviors that may not seem like they do but impact people's time, money and awareness."
Abandoning its longtime approach of manually blocking out pro football's traditional anchors, like Thanksgiving Day matchups and division rivalries in the last weeks of the regular season, the N.F.L. instead focused on producing the highest overall viewership for the season across all platforms, not just prime-time broadcasts on the free over-the-air TV networks.
It fed to its computers dozens of variables that could affect demand for certain teams in certain time slots, including recent trades of certain players, like Aaron Rodgers, and the preferences of the teams and broadcasters.
"We find the most important, most interesting games first, and then solve around them," North said. "Instead of committing to a game or two for each network right off the bat, we got a pool of games together, say the 10 or 15 best, and spread them around across our partners. Which one we might end up with who could change by the day right up until the last minute."
The Chiefs, perhaps the team most in demand, are scheduled to play on each of the league's media partners' platforms, as are the Jets, who made the biggest trade of the off-season, acquiring Rodgers. They will face off in Week 4, on Oct. 1, on NBC's "Sunday Night Football." The league's computers slotted the Super Bowl rematch between Kansas City and the Philadelphia Eagles for Week 11, on Nov. 20, in a "Monday Night Football" game for ESPN.
Optimizing for ratings across all platforms has beefed up Thursday night offerings, which had been plagued by bad matchups and teams that disliked playing midweek. Amazon Prime will stream a Vikings-Eagles matchup in Week 2, for example, and also has a highly anticipated rivalry, Bengals-Ravens, in Week 11, on Nov. 16.
The Sunday lineups will also see a shake-up. Games in the two afternoon time slots had been assigned based on the conference affiliation of the road team, with visiting A.F.C. teams shown on CBS and visiting N.F.C. teams on Fox. That meant CBS had almost as many New England Patriots games as Fox had Dallas Cowboys games, the most popular teams boosting those broadcasts.
The league now has the flexibility to reassign games at 4:25 p.m. Eastern, the more watched Sunday afternoon slot, regardless of the broadcaster. The N.F.L. uses Recentive's software during the season to determine which games to move, or flex, into prime time.
Beyond the Kansas City-Detroit matchup, Week 1 underscores league priorities. The 1 p.m. matchups seem randomly generated (Texans vs. Ravens! Cardinals vs. Commanders!), with the league slotting a storied rivalry (Packers vs. Bears) later in the afternoon, a salty divisional match (Cowboys vs. Giants) in prime time and the jewel of the first week -- Bills vs. Jets -- in the coveted "Monday Night Football" window.
With intriguing matchups more in demand than ever, computer modeling leaves less room for network executives to lobby N.F.L. officials for specific games. "It makes sense because everyone's going to have a competing claim that they're as important," said Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at MoffettNathanson. "When you slice the packages as much as the league has sliced them, and the networks are paying what they're paying in light of the challenges in linear television, people do have a higher claim in their eyes for getting better games."
The data-first approach is a far cry from the 1970s, when Val Pinchbeck, a longtime league executive, manually created the schedule using tags for each team that he hung on a peg board to fill out what was then a 224-game jigsaw puzzle.
Some network executives said that in years past, they had a good sense of the biggest matchups they would broadcast a few weeks before the schedule was announced. While they rue the new, more data-driven approach, they recognize how hard it is to create a schedule that evenly distributes the most sought-after matchups while avoiding bad games in prime time.
Still, some networks are delighted with how the league has distributed the games, at least this year.
"Our schedule this year is better than it's ever been," Sean McManus, the chairman of CBS Sports, told reporters last week. McManus was particularly happy that CBS would broadcast eight Chiefs games and eight with the Jets.
Photograph ENCORE: The Super Bowl rematch between the Philadelphia Eagles and Kansas City will be shown on ESPN on Nov. 20. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK MAKELA/GETTY IMAGES; COLIN E. BRALEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B6, B7.

Subject: Professional football; Software; Computers; Athletic drafts & trades; Prime time

Location: United States--US; Kansas City Missouri; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: Amazon.com Inc; NAICS: 334310, 454110, 518210; Name: Philadelphia Eagles; NAICS: 711211; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/07/sports/football/nfl-tv-streaming-schedule.html

Title: It Borders on Rocket Science:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 7, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2861547323

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/borders-on-rocket-science/docview/2861547323/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York City’s Crackdown on Airbnb Is Starting. Here’s What to Expect.

Author: Zaveri, Mihir

Publication info: Zaveri, Mihir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-city-s-crackdown-on-airbnb-is-starting/docview/2861856278/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — New York City officials on Tuesday were expected to start enforcing strict new regulations that limit residents’ ability to rent out homes through platforms like Airbnb.
The move is expected to lead to the removal of thousands of listings from the platforms. It is the latest and potentially most consequential development in the yearslong feud between big cities and the home-sharing companies.
The city argues that the proliferation of short-term rentals through Airbnb and other platforms has pushed up rents and helped fuel New York City’s housing shortage.
Airbnb has said the new rules amount to a “de facto ban” on the platform, and other critics say the city is bending to the lobbying of the hotel industry and locking out cheaper options for visitors.
What are the new regulations?
For years, the city has maintained that existing laws preclude people from renting out homes to guests for less than 30 days, unless the host is present during the stay. The city also asserts that no more than two guests are allowed to stay at a time, and that they must have ready access to the entire home.
But there continue to be numerous listings for rentals of whole apartments and homes, and the city has argued companies like Airbnb are not policing their platforms aggressively enough to root out violators. A city official claimed in a July court filing that more than half of Airbnb’s $85 million net revenue in 2022 from short-term rentals in New York City came from activity that is illegal. Airbnb disputes the figure.
The new regulations, which the city planned to begin enforcing Tuesday after a series of court challenges, require hosts to register with the city to be allowed to rent on a short-term basis.
In order to collect fees associated with the short-term stays, Airbnb, VRBO, Booking.com and other companies must check that a host’s registration application has been approved. Starting Tuesday, hosts who violate the rules could face fines of up to $5,000 for repeat offenders, and platforms could be fined up to $1,500 for transactions involving illegal rentals.
Why restrict short-term rentals?
City officials estimated there were roughly 10,800 Airbnb listings as of March that were illegal short-term rentals. They have argued that renting those homes to tourists and visitors instead of New Yorkers exacerbates the city’s acute housing shortage and makes it even more expensive to live in the city.
Residents who live in buildings with short-term rentals have complained that transient guests bring a greater risk of crime, excessive noise and cleanliness problems.
Christian Klossner, the executive director of the Mayor’s Office of Special Enforcement, said the new rules would create a “clear path for hosts who follow the city’s long-standing laws.”
There is also the influence of the hotel industry, which competes with such platforms as Airbnb. The Hotel Trades Council, a powerful force in local politics and an ally of Mayor Eric Adams, has long fought the expansion of the platforms.
What is the counterargument?
Airbnb says short-term home rentals help the city’s tourism economy, especially in parts of the city where there are few hotels. The company has fought the new rules in court, arguing that city code should allow “unhosted” rentals in some one- and two-family homes, and that New York City’s interpretation of its own laws is “unreasonable.”
Airbnb has also contended that the registration system is unnecessarily complex. Its lawsuit was dismissed last month.
“The city is sending a clear message to millions of potential visitors who will now have fewer accommodation options when they visit New York City: you are not welcome,” said Theo Yedinsky, global policy director for Airbnb.
What will happen now?
There could be far fewer Airbnb listings available.
Any short-term rentals through platforms like Airbnb for units that are not classified as “hotels,” and have not been registered with the city, will probably no longer be available. Airbnb said some listings would be automatically converted to long-term rentals and others would be deactivated.
Airbnb estimated last month that there were nearly 15,000 hosts that have active listings for short-term rentals in homes across the city. As of Aug. 28, the city had received about 3,250 registration applications. Only 257 had been approved.
Airbnb said that since mid-August, it had prevented people from booking short-term reservations in New York City for after Sept. 5.
Neither Airbnb nor the city could provide updated data on the number of listings expected to be taken down.
AirDNA, a rental analytics company, estimated that of the roughly 13,500 active listings for entire apartments and homes on Airbnb as of July, about 6,000 appeared to be for units classified as hotels or offered long-term rentals, leaving about 7,500 listings that could be affected by the new rules.
Will my booking get canceled?
If you have booked an Airbnb accommodation for less than 30 days after Tuesday, a few things could happen.
If the stay involves a check-in before Dec. 1, the reservation will not be canceled.
But reservations for after Dec. 2 will be canceled and refunded, according to the company. Airbnb did not say how many such reservations there were.
The city said it would not remove guests from illegal short-term rentals unless there were health or safety hazards in the apartment.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Registration; Rentals; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Hotels & motels

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

Identifier / keyword: Fines (Penalties); New York City; Airbnb; Decisions And Verdicts; VrboCom; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Law And Legislation; Adams, Eric L; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Travel And Vacations; BookingCom; Airdna; Noise; Urban Areas; Hotels And Travel Lodgings; United States; Budget Travel; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate)

Title: New York City’s Crackdown on Airbnb Is Starting. Here’s What to Expect.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-06T00:24:43Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2861856278

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-city-s-crackdown-on-airbnb-is-starting/docview/2861856278/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 6, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

City Begins Limiting Airbnb-Style Home Rentals: [National Desk]

Author: Zaveri, Mihir

Publication info: Zaveri, Mihir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/city-begins-limiting-airbnb-style-home-rentals/docview/2861065142/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On Tuesday, the city will start enforcing strict new rules on how and when New Yorkers can rent out homes using platforms like Airbnb and Vrbo.
New York City officials on Tuesday are expected to start enforcing strict new regulations that limit residents' ability to rent out homes through platforms like Airbnb.
The move is expected to lead to the removal of thousands of listings from the platforms. It is the latest and potentially most consequential development in the yearslong feud between big cities and the home-sharing companies.
The city argues that the proliferation of short-term rentals through Airbnb and other platforms has pushed up rents and helped fuel New York City's housing shortage.
Airbnb has said the new rules amount to a "de facto ban" on the platform, and other critics say the city is bending to the lobbying of the hotel industry and locking out cheaper options for visitors.
What are the new regulations?
For years, the city has maintained that existing laws preclude people from renting out homes to guests for less than 30 days, unless the host is present during the stay. The city also asserts that no more than two guests are allowed to stay at a time, and that they must have ready access to the entire home.
But there continue to be numerous listings for rentals of whole apartments and homes, and the city has argued companies like Airbnb are not policing their platforms aggressively enough to root out violators.
A city official claimed in a July court filing that more than half of Airbnb's $ 85 million net revenue in 2022 from short-term rentals in New York City came from activity that is illegal. Airbnb disputes the figure.
The new regulations, which the city will begin enforcing on Tuesday after a series of court challenges, require hosts to register with the city to be allowed to rent on a short-term basis.
In order to collect fees associated with the short-term stays, Airbnb, Vrbo, Booking.com and other companies must check that a host's registration application has been approved.
Starting Tuesday, hosts who violate the rules could face fines of up to $ 5,000 for repeat offenders, and platforms could be fined up to $ 1,500 for transactions involving illegal rentals.
Why restrict short-term rentals?
City officials estimated there were roughly 10,800 Airbnb listings as of March 2023 that were illegal short-term rentals. They have argued that renting those homes to tourists and visitors instead of New Yorkers exacerbates the city's acute housing shortage and makes it even more expensive to live here.
Residents who live in buildings with short-term rentals have complained that transient guests bring a greater risk of crime, excessive noise and cleanliness problems.
Christian Klossner, the executive director of the Mayor's Office of Special Enforcement, said the new rules would create a "clear path for hosts who follow the city's longstanding laws."
There is also the influence of the hotel industry, a competitor of platforms like Airbnb. The Hotel Trades Council, a powerful force in local politics and ally of Mayor Eric Adams, has long fought the expansion of the platforms.
What is the argument in favor of short-term rentals?
Airbnb says short-term home rentals help the city's tourism economy, especially in parts of the city where there are few hotels.
The company has fought the new rules in court, arguing that city code should allow "unhosted" rentals in some one- and two-family homes, and that New York City's interpretation of its own laws is "unreasonable."
Airbnb has also contended that the registration system is unnecessarily complex. Its lawsuit was dismissed last month.
"The city is sending a clear message to millions of potential visitors who will now have fewer accommodation options when they visit New York City: you are not welcome," said Theo Yedinsky, Global Policy Director for Airbnb.
What will happen starting Tuesday?
There will be far fewer Airbnb listings available.
Any short-term rentals through platforms like Airbnb for units that are not classified as "hotels," and have not been registered with the city, will probably no longer be available. Airbnb said some listings would be automatically converted to long-term rentals and others would be deactivated.
Airbnb estimated last month that there were nearly 15,000 hosts that have active listings for short-term rentals in homes across the city. As of Aug. 28, the city had received about 3,250 registration applications. Only 257 had been approved.
Airbnb said that since mid-August, it has prevented people from booking short-term reservations in New York City for after Sept. 5.
Neither Airbnb nor the city could provide updated data on the number of listings expected to be taken down.
AirDNA, a rental analytics company, estimated that of the roughly 13,500 active listings for entire apartments and homes on Airbnb as of July, about 6,000 appeared to be for units classified as hotels or offered long-term rentals, leaving about 7,500 listings that could be affected by the new rules.
Will my booking get canceled?
If you have booked an Airbnb for less than 30 days after Tuesday, a few things could happen.
If the stay involves a check-in before Dec. 1, the reservation will not be canceled.
But reservations for after Dec. 2 will be canceled and refunded, according to the company. Airbnb did not say how many such reservations there were.
The city said it would not remove guests from illegal short-term rentals unless there were health or safety hazards in the apartment.
Photograph New York City officials estimated that there were roughly 10,800 Airbnb listings as of March that were illegal short-term rentals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Registration; Rentals; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Hotels & motels

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: Vrbo; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/05/nyregion/airbnb-regulations-nyc-housing.html

Title: City Begins Limiting Airbnb-Style Home Rentals:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2861065142

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/city-begins-limiting-airbnb-style-home-rentals/docview/2861065142/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Exploring the Mountains, the Museums and the Double Oven: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Glusac, Elaine

Publication info: Glusac, Elaine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exploring-mountains-museums-double-oven/docview/2857730048/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Getting a vacation rental with a good kitchen is a must for many budget travelers and those who explore destinations through cooking.
Matt Tracy, 45, a shoe distributor based in Portland, Maine, loves to cook. On a recent multigenerational trip to Tuscany, he and other family members cooked seven out of 10 nights in a rental villa, preparing dishes like wild boar ragù for 10 people, including his children, 6 and 9.
"We save a tremendous amount of money cooking," he said. "We love going out to dinner, but with two kids and other guests it's expensive."
Whether catering to allergies or other dietary needs, ensuring family harmony or sticking to a budget, cooking on vacation is increasingly popular among travelers choosing short-term rental accommodations.
According to a 2023 travel trend report from the vacation rental platform Vrbo, demand for "foodie-menities" is on the rise. Sixty-five percent of users surveyed said equipment like a barbecue, air fryer and deluxe coffee machine were more important than the destination. Nearly half cook to reduce costs.
At Airbnb, "kitchen" is the third most searched amenity among rentals after pools and Wi-Fi. The rental platform made it easy to find accommodations with "chef's kitchens" when it introduced various lodging categories in May 2022.
"The kitchen tends to be the heart and soul of vacation homes," wrote Josh Viner, a regional operations director at the vacation rental home platform Vacasa, in an email. It is in the kitchen, he notes, that "guests gather to not only have a delicious, home-cooked meal, but also connect and relax."
Convenience and exploration
Travelers who cook do it for many reasons: as a way to explore a place when shopping locally for ingredients; saving money; a family convenience; and more.
"Many clients like to have the cooking option," said Rob Stern, a travel agent based in Raleigh, N.C., who runs RobPlansYourTrip.com, singling out "families on a budget or those who have picky eaters."
For others, meal prep brings them closer to their destination.
"When I'm trying to experience a place one of my favorite things to do is visit a grocery store," said Tanya Churchmuch, 53, who runs a public relations firm in New York City.
Preparing her own food also allows her to maintain a healthy diet. Even on trips as short as three days, she takes a mini espresso maker and steel cut oats and buys fruit locally to eat at least one meal in, saving, she estimates, between $ 15 and $ 30 a couple compared to dining out.
For Ashleigh Butler, the author of the cookbook "The Small Kitchen Cook" who has spent years living out of a camper van in her native Australia as well as North America, patronizing local markets "allows you to absorb the culinary culture whilst supporting local farmers and makers."
For frequent travelers, staying somewhere with a kitchen feels less isolating.
"There's nothing harder than being in a regular hotel room, especially when you're in places indefinitely," said Gary Durant, 49, a sports agent from Toronto who is on the road 300 days a year, in an interview from a Level Hotels & Furnished Suites location in Los Angeles.
In the kitchen, he prepares simple dishes like eggs and pasta and entertains clients with delivery meals that he can properly heat and serve. "A kitchen with amenities feels like home away from home," he said.
Renting a place with a fancy kitchen doesn't have to cost more. While the "chef's kitchens" category for Chicago Airbnbs recently had plenty of fancy rentals going for $ 1,200 and up, there was also a good selection under $ 200.
Controlling food costs
For gastronauts, going to places famed for their food makes the cooking not only exciting but cheaper and simpler.
"In Italy, you're starting off already with great quality ingredients, which makes cooking Italian food so much easier because you don't have to do so much to the ingredients," said Jeff Michaud, 46, a Philadelphia-based chef who runs Osteria restaurant. With his wife, Claudia, he also runs the travel company La Via Gaia, which takes small groups to Italy for cooking classes and visits to cheesemakers, truffle hunters and pasta masters.
On average, he estimates he spends about a half to a third of what he would on equivalent ingredients at home, noting a loaf of bread often costs less than a dollar. "In Italy, food is still priced affordably," he said.
When she travels in Europe, Diane Morgan, 68, a food writer and culinary instructor based in Portland, Ore., searches rental listings for appliances like a grill to keep the cleaning to a minimum.
Three stays in the southern French town of Sablet offered her the chance to patronize local markets and bakeries. "It was really simple eating," she said, describing fresh salads for her lunches. "I wasn't trying to bake cakes but just be able to utilize the local produce and especially the cheeses."
Sampling local food in your rental kitchen doesn't always require cooking skills.
"My hot French insider tip for travelers with kitchens: frozen food," wrote Gayle Keck, 62, a writer from California who recently relocated to France, in an email. She recommended the frozen-food chain Picard as a time- and money-saver (four servings of salmon tartare costs 11.70 euros, or about $ 12.85). It's also a taste of how the locals cheat with classics like duck confit and quiche Lorraine. "Picard is everyone's little guilty secret."
Packing salt, corkscrews and toothpicks
Sizing up a rental's kitchen can be a hurdle for cooks on the road, resulting in unique packing lists.
Mr. Tracy, the wild boar ragù chef, travels with Better Than Bouillon roasted chicken base, toothpicks for spearing finger food, and a chef's knife and a paring knife, both wrapped in a towel and stowed in checked baggage.
In the summers of 2020 and 2021, Ms. Churchmuch and her wife relocated to Iceland to work remotely. "That's when we started taking things like knives and a microplane," she said. "No one has a grater in their apartment."
On a recent trip to Philadelphia, Tara Crowley, 37, a chef based in South Lake Tahoe, Calif., chose the extended-stay hotel AKA University City because its open-plan kitchen allowed her to socialize with friends and family while cooking.
"I always travel with a wine key and bring along flaky Irish salt," Ms. Crowley wrote in an email. "The salt elevates any dish."
Eva Sobesky, an architect based in Los Angeles, tried to make it easier for renters to navigate the kitchen at her four-bedroom vacation home in coastal Manzanita, Ore., which she rents on Vrbo. Open shelves allow guests to see where dishes and glasses are. A large central countertop island lets others gather around the cook. An induction cooktop is efficient and easy to clean.
"To me, the kitchen is the heart of the house," Ms. Sobesky said.
R.V.s and rental vans challenge cooks with limited work and storage space. Ms. Butler of the vanlife cookbook embraced the size limitations, which she said encouraged her to "be creative and also more thoughtful" with her recipes, which include pan-fried pizza and steamed cake.
Reducing food waste
When Covid restrictions limited her travel, Ms. Morgan managed a van trip in remote southeast Oregon by planning out meals like lamb curry ahead of time and washing greens in advance.
"We had no food waste on that trip," she said.
At home or afar, food waste is the pitfall of cooking. The United States Department of Agriculture estimates that 31 percent of food produced each year nationally is wasted at the retail and consumer levels.
That figure may be higher among travelers. In preliminary results, the first phase of a study by the Environmental Protection Agency in Telluride, Colo., over high-season summer and winter time periods found that 70 percent of trash was recoverable, meaning it could have been recycled or composted.
"Sometimes I go into an apartment and the amount of food people have left is incredible," said Bob Garner, who rents short-term vacation homes in Italy and last year launched EnviroRental, a website for property hosts to learn how to operate more sustainably. "I could live off it for a week."
Mr. Garner advises guests to shop for half of their stay. "Buy less, don't over-shop the first day and you'll save money and won't worry about food waste," he said.
While reducing waste is an individual responsibility, the new organization Sustonica certifies short-term rentals based on sustainable practices, including waste reduction among its criteria. The requirements call for at least four recycling bins -- glass, paper, plastic and organic -- and supplying reusable shopping bags. Sustonica aims to have 70,000 properties vetted by year end.
Earlier this year, Diane Daniel, a short-term rental host in Indian Rocks Beach, Fla., founded the nonprofit Vacation Donations to help visitors and other property managers find ways to donate food and items like books and beach toys.
In addition to buying less, Ms. Daniel recommends travelers ask short-term rental hosts if they have a system for donating food and other things.
"In my wildest dream, keeping things out of the waste bin will be part of what you expect and demand in your rentals," she said.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Chefs; Costs; Cooking; Cookbooks; Travel; Kitchens; Rentals; Vacation homes; Food waste; Vacations; Sports agents

Business indexing term: Subject: Costs

Location: Italy; United States--US; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: Vrbo; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/18/travel/vacation-rentals-kitchens.html

Title: Exploring the Mountains, the Museums and the Double Oven:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 28, 2023

column: Frugal Traveler

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857730048

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exploring-mountains-museums-double-oven/docview/2857730048/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Legacy of Colonialism Set the Stage for Maui's Wildfires: [Op-Ed]

Author: Bonilla, Yarimar

Publication info: Bonilla, Yarimar. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legacy-colonialism-set-stage-mauis-wildfires/docview/2857730040/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Puerto Rico and Hawaii have always felt to me like reverse sides of the imperial coin. My fellow Boricuas who support statehood often point to the Aloha State as a symbol of our future: an example of successful annexation, full citizenship, political representation and the American promise of prosperity. Others consider it a cautionary tale of how assimilation can lead to displacement, cultural erasure and an economy centered on escapist fantasy.
As I've watched events unfold after the recent fires in Maui, these lines have blurred, revealing shared histories and mutual vulnerabilities and bringing a profound sense of déjà vu. I'm haunted by the news of essential infrastructure crumbling when most needed and of residents left to fend for themselves in the absence of government aid. Most of all, I shudder with recognition at the palpable fear that recovery will lead only to displacement and dispossession.
If you type "what caused the fires in Maui" into your search bar (as I did), you will be left with no clear answer. Articles cast blame on outdated power lines, nonnative grasses, a faltering water system and compounding weather and climate-driven factors.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has acknowledged that the climate crisis is rooted in the exploitation and degradation of the environment, people and cultures, which were foundational principles of colonialism. Settlers prioritized immediate resource gains over long-term ecological health, shunning Indigenous land management practices as outdated barriers to progress.
To understand these fires, you have to rewind to the 19th century, when Christian missionaries transformed an area that was mostly wetlands into large-scale sugar plantations that required the digging of tunnels and the building of reservoirs to divert water to mills and away from sustainable agriculture. Dominated by American investors, the sugar and pineapple industries led to deforestation and left native Hawaiians with insufficient water for their crops.
Once the sugar boom ended, the land was further exploited for transplants and tourists. While Upcountry residents in Maui face water shortages, rationing and fines if they fail to conserve water, luxury resorts across the island are allowed to keep their taps running. The surge of tourism has caused housing costs to skyrocket and has given rise to a local economy focused on the needs of those just passing through. These imperial legacies combined to create a tinderbox, waiting to ignite.
Just as a house that hasn't been cared for properly is more vulnerable to bad weather, lands exploited and mismanaged by colonialism are now at greater risk of disaster. Residents in Puerto Rico and Maui are more vulnerable not just to natural disasters but also to predatory land grabs in the wake of catastrophes.
President Biden has pledged that the rebuilding process in West Maui will be guided by cultural sensitivity, stating, "We're going to get it done for you but get it done the way you want it done." But how can rebuilding honor a historical and cultural legacy that has been systematically threatened by U.S. annexation?
As I watched Mr. Biden's statements from my mother's home in Puerto Rico, I was grateful that he did not throw paper towels at locals or ask whether he could simply sell off colonial properties -- as Donald Trump did in Puerto Rico in 2018. However, real change demands more than just the right optics and platitudes. It also requires a vision of reconstruction that addresses historical repair.
Hawaii residents, like Puerto Ricans, who faced disasters before them, are not asking to be saved. They ask only to be allowed to help themselves in the face of failing emergency services and federal aid. But the entrenched vulnerabilities produced by colonialism are not so easily overcome. For example, some residents have been begging tourists to stay away as the community recovers. But others have said that as much as they would like the time to mourn, they simply can't afford it -- especially when all they have received from the government is $ 700. This is what happens when your economy hinges on the pleasure of others.
Maui residents who were already being pushed out by unaffordable housing prices and a lack of career opportunities beyond hospitality will now probably feel the same push to migrate that Puerto Ricans did after Hurricane Maria. It will only worsen if weeks of absent federal aid turn into months of bureaucratic labyrinths and endless red tape, as has happened so often. Here again I think about how after Hurricane Maria only 40 percent of FEMA applicants received any aid at all and a little over 1 percent received the maximum payout.
The challenge of repairing damaged homes without adequate support -- as well as persistent power outages, deteriorating bridges and a failing health system -- has made it increasingly difficult for Puerto Ricans to stay put. This has combined with the influx of digital nomads and federal tax-evading millionaires, along with a growing Airbnb market that has priced many people out of their own communities.
The State of Hawaii has said it will protect locals from land speculators. But if the bureaucracy of emergency management stalls out or fails, people who have temporary hotel vouchers or are overstaying their welcome on their cousins' couches will be left with few options other than to sell.
Opportunistic profiteering often follows an emergency, but it's crucial to understand that those quick grabs of resources and power often depend on and exacerbate existing fault lines of imperial extraction.
The U.S. government has already acknowledged and formally apologized for its illegal overthrow of the Hawaiian government, but it has failed to repair the harms caused or the imperial legacies that endure. As for Puerto Rico, the U.S. government has never recognized wrongdoing, even as it continues to deny residents full citizenship or sovereignty.
Forging a sustainable postdisaster future for both Puerto Rico and Hawaii requires more than temporary shelters and quick fixes. It demands a reckoning with the entrenched systems of inequality that set the stage for these tragedies to begin with. A just recovery can't be about bouncing back to a previous state of vulnerability, nor can it be about building back better without asking: Better for whom?
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
Yarimar Bonilla, a contributing Opinion writer, is the author and editor of several books, including "Non-Sovereign Futures: French Caribbean Politics in the Wake of Disenchantment" and "Aftershocks of Disaster: Puerto Rico Before and After the Storm."
A contributing Opinion writer who
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Government aid; Political representation; Citizenship; Federal aid to territories; Blackouts; Colonialism; Forest & brush fires; Climate change

Location: Puerto Rico; Hawaii; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/27/opinion/maui-wildfire-colonialism.html

Title: A Legacy of Colonialism Set the Stage for Maui's Wildfires:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 28, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2857730040

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legacy-colonialism-set-stage-mauis-wildfires/docview/2857730040/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Graveside on TikTok: [Style Desk]

Author: Lucas, Jessica

Publication info: Lucas, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/graveside-on-tiktok/docview/2857512348/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: #Gravetok influencers post videos of themselves visiting burial sites, cleaning headstones and following recipes inscribed on them.
When Rosie Grant made ice cream to share with Marian Montfort last month, her biggest challenge was getting it to her.
She had flown from Shreveport, La., to Portland, Maine, where Ms. Montfort was waiting. There she sprinted to her Airbnb, purchased an ice cream maker, gathered and combined the ingredients -- dried apricots, apricot preserves, sugar, double cream and a sprinkle of nutmeg -- and transported her concoction without its melting through heavy summer rain.
It was tough doing it all alone, but Ms. Montfort couldn't help her -- she had been dead for 16 years. Ms. Grant had followed the recipe inscribed on her headstone.
Ms. Grant is one of many TikTok influencers on the hashtag #gravetok, a space with more than one billion views. Creators post videos of themselves following cooking advice, visiting burial sites and cleaning gravestones. As demand for cremation increases in the United States, they are hoping to inspire a new generation of cemetery enthusiasts, or taphophiles, who can help conserve the country's past.
Since 2021, Ms. Grant, 33, has been traveling across the country to dine at the burial sites of those who left behind recipes on their tombstones. She finds them through a combination of research and help from her followers and travels to each one armed with a meal she has tenderly prepared.
"On some level it just felt like a really nice gift for these people to leave a recipe behind," said Ms. Grant, an archivist from Los Angeles who films her graveside meals on her account @ghostlyarchive. "It just felt like the natural progression to go and visit them."
Among her creations are fudge, snickerdoodles and chicken soup. For Ms. Grant, each of these meals is special, including the ice cream she shared with Ms. Montfort, which she described as "a beautiful moment of calm."
A deep interest in death rituals is nothing new, said Cole Imperi, a founder of the School of American Thanatology (as in the scientific study of death) and a former board president of the Historic Linden Grove Cemetery and Arboretum in Covington, Ky. Cemeteries are often preserved as both historical sites and gardens that are open to the public, she said.
Ms. Imperi believes the surge of interest in grave tourism is a symptom of modern life. "Social media needs bite-sized pieces of content, and a headstone is a bite-sized story of a person, so those two things are in perfect alignment," she said. "There's a sense of rootedness and meaningful heritage from learning about the people that have come before us."
It's a quality that other creators have noticed, too.
Caitlin Abrams, 37, a software curriculum developer from rural Vermont with the TikTok account @manicpixiemom, believes her three million followers prefer the stories of the everyday person to those of the famous. In her videos, she restores graves that are centuries old and narrates the clips with details about the deceased person's life, including family lineage and tragedies of child loss. "We all love to see how other people live," she said.
It's hard to say exactly what viewers are looking for on #gravetok. Some describe the community as a pocket-size oasis. "I find walking through cemeteries to be very peaceful," said Enocha Edenfield, a 42-year-old tour guide and #gravetok follower who lives in Savannah, Ga. "It gives me a chance to think away from the noise of the city while also learning a little about its history through the headstones I pass."
In the comments under these videos, viewers also share their feelings of satisfaction from watching graves being cleaned or of hope that they might one day be remembered in this way.
The videos sometimes reach the families of the dead people featured in them, said Grace Waronker, a 26-year-old plaster artist from Los Angeles who shares videos through her TikTok account, @grace_goodnight. "When I put up a video of a grave that I've come across, a lot of the time the family or friends will see it and say it's a sign," she said. "They take it as a signal that that person is OK."
But creators said there was still work to be done to make #gravetok more inclusive. "Graves only tell us part of the story, because the people who were middle-class and upper-class would have been able to access the stones that still remain," Ms. Abrams said. "Most of the graves I clean are for white people because mostly white people had access to gravestones."
Ms. Grant cited America's history of demolishing Native American burial sites and African American cemeteries as another reason she continues to post about her work -- to inspire a new generation of taphophiles who can protect and care for overlooked cemeteries.
"It's really important for a local community to be connected to their local cemeteries and to care about them on some level," she said. "It sounds like a weird way to put it, but any amount of support can help to keep the cemetery itself alive."
Photograph Rosie Grant is one of many TikTok influencers on the hashtag #gravetok. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSIE GRANT) This article appeared in print on page ST7.

Subject: White people; Meals; Recipes; Video recordings; Influencer marketing; Cemeteries

Business indexing term: Subject: Influencer marketing

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.co m/2023/08/22/style/gravetok-tiktok-gravestones.html

Title: Graveside on TikTok:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857512348

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/graveside-on-tiktok/docview/2857512348/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Can Affluence and Affordable Housing Coexist?: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Talmon Joseph Smith; Kulesza, Joanna

Publication info: Talmon Joseph Smith; Kulesza, Joanna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-affluence-affordable-housing-coexist/docview/2853182238/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the recreation-fueled, amenity-rich economy of Colorado's Rocky Mountain region, there are two peak seasons: summer, with its rafting, hiking, fishing and biking, and the cold months filled with skiing and other winter activities.
And then there is "mud season" -- a liminal moment in spring when the alpine environment, slowly then suddenly, begins to thaw and only a trickle of tourists linger.
It's a period that workers in other places might bemoan. But for much of the financially stretched work force serving the assemblage of idyllic mountain towns across the state, a brief drop-off in business this spring was a respite.
During a slow shift on a 51-degree day at the Blue Stag Saloon -- a nook on Main Street in the vacation hub of Breckenridge -- Michelle Badger, a veteran server, half-joked with her co-workers that "this winter was hell."
Crowds were larger than ever. And workers in the old Gold Rush town still enjoy the highs of the easy camaraderie and solid tips that come with service jobs in the area. But it was all sobered by the related headaches of soaring rents and acute understaffing, which left employees, managers and demanding customers feeling strained.
Working in mountain towns like Breckenridge and others in Summit County -- including Silverthorne, Dillon and Frisco -- would feel like a fairer bargain, Ms. Badger and her colleagues said, if they could better afford living close by.
Long commutes are common throughout America. But rental prices in hamlets among the wilderness on the outskirts of town are becoming burdensome too.
Job growth has severely outpaced the stock of shelter throughout Colorado. Median rent in Frisco -- which a decade ago was considered a modest "bedroom community" for commuting employees -- is about $ 4,000 a month, according to Zillow, and 90 percent above the national median. Home buyers buttressed by family money abound.
The wage floor for most jobs in and around the county -- from line cook to ski lift operator -- is at least $ 18 an hour, or roughly $ 37,000 a year. Yet for those not lucky enough to land a rare slot in subsidized local employee housing, it's not uncommon to live an hour or more away to attain a livable budget.
As that happens, the contingent displaced by the rich ripples outward down rural highway corridors and, in turn, displaces the farther-flung working poor.
Inequality has always been rampant within the orbit of popular destinations. But the financial knock-on effects of those ritzy spheres have expanded as the pandemic-induced surge in remote work has supercharged divides.
Wanderlust-filled white-collar workers abruptly discovered that multiweek visits or even permanent relocations were possible for them and their families. Those seeking investment properties saw the opportunities of this hybrid-driven land rush as well, and pounced.
Longtime residents have had a front-row seat.
Matt Scheer -- a 48-year-old musician who grew up on a ranch eastward in El Paso County, where "as soon as we could carry the milk bucket we were milking the cow" -- is the sort of extroverted jack-of-all-trades who typifies the spirit (and the wistful brand) of Summit County.
Having moved near Breckenridge in the early 2000s to ski, hike, fly fish and work around town, he's relieved that he managed to pick up his place in 2012 for $ 240,000 with a fixed-rate mortgage. Prices in his tucked-away French Creek neighborhood -- a hilly, unincorporated patch with modest double-wide manufactured homes -- have more than tripled.
Though he's a loyal resident with little interest in ever moving, Mr. Scheer said he "can't really leave."
For a payout of tens of thousands of dollars from the local government, he recently signed onto a hefty "deed restriction" for his property, banning its use for Airbnb stays, limiting any potential renter or buyer to the work force of Summit, and limiting any potential resale price. And he did it with pride.
It's part of a growing program led by Breckenridge and other local governments to limit gentrification without licensing a large buildup of new developments. (Deed restrictions in destination areas got off to a quieter start in the 2010s but have ticked up.)
Incumbent property owners willing to sacrifice lucrative short-term vacation rental income see it as a fair trade-off, key to keeping long-term residents and the dashing contours of their towns' terrain. Policy critics, and frustrated local renters fighting over limited spots, say it is an inadequate tool for the scale and source of the problem: a lack of units.
Those critics include the governor of Colorado, Jared Polis, who is skeptical that lump-sum payments to owners in exchange for deed restrictions will be a sufficient incentive to broadly move the needle on affordability.
"There is no silver bullet," he said in an interview. "But one of the areas that we have focused on is removing the barriers to additional home construction." He added that "housing is not a problem that you can solve by throwing more money at the existing housing stock."
His sweeping legislation to ensure "a home for every Colorado budget" by pre-empting local land-use laws and directly loosening zoning rules statewide died in the State Senate in May, after some initial momentum. All but one of the mayors in the state's Metro Mayors Caucus issued a letter opposing the plan.
'It's Either Five Mil or Five Jobs'
As politicians jockey, many resourceful Coloradans find ways to make do.
Mr. Scheer, for instance, has picked up over 30 music gigs through the end of summer, paying about $ 100 an hour -- though he acknowledges it's his locked-in, lower housing costs that make his lifestyle workable.
During a practice jam session and impromptu afternoon party of 20- to 40-somethings at Mr. Scheer's place in the spring, his pal and fellow guitarist, Bud Hallock (the other half of their occasional duo band, Know Good People), explained the grind people face by echoing the playfully hard-nosed aphorism uttered around town: "It's either five mil or five jobs."
"If you're willing to put in the work, you'll be able to," argues Mr. Hallock, who moved out West shortly after graduating from St. Lawrence University in 2015. Mr. Hallock has three jobs, he said, adding, "I don't think it's the God-given right of anyone to come to a ski town and have it easy."
For many longtime residents and transplants alike, it has become harder to finesse: Even as Summit County adds waves of remote workers, it has experienced net negative migration since 2020. It's a trend mirrored in the larger urban areas of Denver and Boulder, where the share of people working remotely is among the highest in the country, as homelessness rises.
Tamara Pogue, a member of Summit County's governing board, said the mountain towns and valley cities of the Front Range near Fort Collins and Colorado Springs as well as those out by the Western Slope struggled with an "affordability issue" similar to the nation's big cities for the same reason: "We're supply-constrained."
"The problem is the average cost of a single-family home in Summit County so far this year is $ 2.14 million," Ms. Pogue said. "Not one job makes that affordable."
The stock available is limited: 70 percent of homes in the county are second homes that sit vacant most of the year or serve as short-term rentals, she said, typically Airbnbs.
As a single mother of three, Ms. Pogue bought a 1,400-square-foot duplex for $ 525,000 in 2018 -- a rarity, if not an impossibility, now. She said a determination to prevent "mountain communities" from becoming "towns without townspeople" had driven her to become a staunch YIMBY, or a "yes in my backyard" supporter of home-building efforts, against the wishes of perceived NIMBYs, or the "not in my backyard" voices.
Ms. Pogue and her allies argue that the relatively slow pace of building in the Rockies, despite the area's popularity and rising prices, is a subtle form of denial.
"Everyone wants to be here, whether they work here or not," she added, "and so we have this spiral."
If, When, Where and How to Build More
A few affordable-housing projects visibly chug along in Summit near the airport service road, not far from Kingdom Park Court, one of a handful of mobile home parks in the county with pricey lot rents. But getting middle-income developments greenlit can be a slog. Many proponents of limiting development note that about 80 percent of the county is restricted federal public land, putting a ceiling on what can be done. (There's a nascent pilot program with the U.S. Forest Service to approve some apartments on leased land.) In the meantime, the well-off are gobbling up much of what's left.
Just north of downtown Silverthorne sits Summit Sky Ranch -- a sprawling development with homes starting around $ 1 million, with a pledge of "bringing modern mountain living to over 400 acres of pristine natural beauty" in the valley. It quickly sold out and many have moved in, lured by a private observatory and private access to a river bend.
Laurie Best, the longtime planning manager for housing in the community development department for the Town of Breckenridge, said she had emphasized deed-restriction policies and more generally trying to preserve existing units to reduce the need for new ones.
Ms. Best and her backers have acceded to some construction at a slow and steady pace, but they staunchly oppose taller, dense multifamily buildings, which are not, as she put it, "consistent with the character of the town."
In several counties, there has been a swell in "conservation easements" -- legal agreements between private landowners and local governments to guard wildlife and scenic open space by permanently banning development. The trend led the state to create a Division of Conservation in 2018 with an oversight commission to authenticate the contracts.
Eric Budd, a leader of a movement in Colorado called Bedrooms Are for People -- which favors expanding land use and more widely permitting apartments, duplexes and triplexes -- scoffs at the uptick in easements. He contends that what he tartly calls a "xenophobic attitude of 'there's only so much to go around"' is self-defeating.
Trying to restrict access to a hot commodity -- in this case, half of a state -- won't end well for anyone, he said, and a California-level, cost-of-living crisis is only five or 10 years away.
Down in the foothills of the Rockies in Boulder, where Mr. Budd lives, school enrollment and the overall population have declined along with affordability, as remote-worker migration has picked up.
In some sense, the arguments against restrictionism amount to a water-balloon analogy: squeezing leads to odd bulges in random places.
Before the pandemic, Leadville, an old mining town 15 minutes from the trailhead of the highest peak in the Rockies, was an affordable harbor for working-class Hispanic employees of the nearby vacation economies: just out of reach of the affluence around Aspen to the west and resorts near Vail to the north.
Since 2020, though, Leadville has become engulfed as those realms of wealth expand and overlap, causing rents and home prices to spike beyond what many can feasibly afford over time, with few other places to go.
Second-home owners constituted half of all home sales in 2020 and 2021.
The Downside of Good Intentions
Half of Colorado renters are officially defined as cost-burdened -- spending more than 30 percent of their income on housing costs. And local economists suggest that the rate has ticked even higher in mountain locales.
For Kimberly Kreissig, a real estate agent in Steamboat Springs, a year-round recreation hub with natural hot springs near Wyoming, the affordability crisis in "the high country" has no simple villain. For years, her practice in Steamboat -- where the average home price is above $ 1 million, compared with $ 580,000 in early 2019 -- included both upper-middle-class, first-time home buyers and luxury-market sellers.
In 2018, she and her husband, a developer, broke ground on a dense, 50-unit multifamily project in Steamboat designed for people "in that $ 75,000 range," she said -- "for instance, my office manager here."
"We had grandiose plans that we were going to be able to sell these things for $ 300,000," Ms. Kreissig said, but they were foiled by several factors.
Even before Covid-19 struck, "the demand was just so through the roof that people were offering us more than list price right out of the chutes," she said, with precontract bids coming in "twice as high as we anticipated."
Then, once lockdowns in early 2020 ended, the remote-working cohort swooped in -- just as labor and material costs shot up for the contractors still finishing some units. Before long, many families she sold units to in 2019 for around $ 400,000 realized that because of the housing boom they had "over $ 300,000 in equity" in their homes -- and with interest rates so low, they could parlay a different (or additional) purchase. Many apartment owners began independently flipping their units to investors and buyers of second homes who were willing to pay well above the list prices.
"One flip near the end for one of the units was for $ 800,000," Ms. Kreissig said. "We tried to be the good guys."
One way to respond to house flippers is through greater deed restriction, which Steamboat has enforced in a few neighborhoods, along with some short-term rental restrictions, not unlike other hot spots. The area has also benefited from the state's Middle Income Housing Authority pilot program, which has put up a few buildings in town. But Steamboat still has a shortage of 1,400 units, according to a report from local authorities.
A big break came when an anonymous donor recently purchased a 534-acre farm property, Brown Ranch, and turned it over to the Yampa Valley Housing Authority, with instructions that it be used for long-term affordable housing for local workers.
It came as welcome news to the area's middle class. And yet the sheer surprise, and luck, of the donation is indicative of broader, underlying tensions that typically drive community-level and state debates: Is more supply a threat to both cultural vibes and property price appreciation, or a win-win opportunity to flourish?
Ms. Kreissig thinks it all comes back to "the kind of 'not in my backyard' mentality" that a silent majority holds.
"For the people that are already 'in,' there's a fair share of folks that are saying, 'You know, 'I'm in, we don't we don't need any more growth,"' she said. "But you can't stop growth."
Adrift Between Uphill and Down
In March 2020, Nancy Leatham, 34, was making just above the minimum wage, living with her husband and their baby daughter in Idaho Springs -- a little city above 7,000 feet wedged between a steep crag and an I-70 exit, far downhill from chic resort land.
They struggled to get by "right during the height of the pandemic, when everything was shut down," wiping out their income, she said. It felt like a repeat of her teenage years during the mortgage-induced financial crisis when her family's business as excavation contractors -- preparing sites for home construction -- went belly-up, and their house was foreclosed upon.
In spring 2020, "I had to start going to food banks and stuff to get food," she said. "And we had to sell a car, and just stuff like that to, like, to make ends meet."
By 2021, her husband, Austin, had found a job at Walmart making $ 19 an hour, while she was promoted at Starbucks, becoming a manager at $ 18 an hour, plus bonus -- and "we had our child tax credit," she added.
"I started looking for a house because we had really great income," roughly $ 80,000 before taxes, she said. "I grew up in poverty, since 2008 especially, and we'd been living with food insecurity and stuff, so I was like 'Look at us, we made it!"'
But almost as soon as she started house hunting, she realized that, within months, the booming housing market had far outpaced the good labor market. They had been priced out of their sleepy, snowy town, after merely a few bidding wars. The average home price -- $ 340,000 at the start of 2019 -- is up 66 percent. Higher mortgage rates hurt, too.
Many of the Starbucks employees Ms. Leatham managed owned their homes rather than rented, she said, and "half left because they were able to sell their house off for considerably more than they were when they bought."
Hoping to buy or rent something bigger than what she called a "closet" apartment, Ms. Leatham, who now has a second child, is preparing for the cold reality of "having to move downhill" -- though where exactly is unclear: 15 miles down the corridor, renters and buyers run into coveted areas near Golden and Denver.
Recently, a woman visited the Starbucks Ms. Leatham works at, she said, and was dressed very much like an out-of-towner. They chit-chatted at the register, and the woman mentioned she was in town to check on a recent property purchase.
Getting her hopes up for a nicer place, Ms. Leatham pried a bit:
"I was like, 'Oh, nice, what are you going to do with it?' And she's like, 'Oh, it's for rental."'
"And I'm like, 'Oh, cool.' And then she goes, 'Short-term rental."'
"And then, I went 'Dang it!' But really loud, and I made her feel awful -- I didn't mean to make her feel that way."
Irresistible Allure, Harsh Reality
Back up the I-70 corridor in Frisco, a sprawling Walmart parking lot often occupied by unhoused people living out of their cars and campers is tucked in front of a commercial complex with a high-end furniture store, a Whole Foods and a craft microbrewery.
It's one of the few places for the growing homeless population to go, since overnight parking is widely banned in Summit County, even in sparse hamlets like Blue River, perched just beyond Breckenridge above 10,000 feet.
The effects of the global and national wealth parked in the Rockies often cascade downstream like the snow melt that carves the rivers. But it's a force that can be identified in any direction.
For many, if not most, homeowners in high-country counties like Summit, the hard truth is that only so much can be done if the very idea of mountain living -- experiencing nature, removed from the bustling downhill hassles of the outside world -- is to be maintained.
"It's funny, on our little block, there's probably, you know, 10 homes -- and on a beautiful day, which we have a lot of, you'll see all of us standing out in our driveway, taking pictures," said Ms. Best of Breckenridge's community development department. "I must have the same picture 100 times because it's so stunning when you go out there, and you're still in awe of where we live. So I totally get the folks that want to be here."
Photograph Downtown Idaho Springs, Colo., where the average home price -- $ 340,000 at the start of 2019 -- is up 66 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOANNA KULESZA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1); At top, from left: downtown Breckenridge; houses among the trees in Breckenridge; and the Frisco Bay Marina in Frisco. Below right, Matt Scheer bought his house in the French Creek section of Breckenridge in 2012 for $ 240,000. Prices for homes in his neighborhood have more than tripled in the past decade.; Above, from far left: a construction site in Silverthorne; dining out in Steamboat Springs; a storefront in downtown Idaho Springs; the Yampa River flowing through Steamboat Springs; the Gold Mountain Village Apartments outside Idaho Springs, where Nancy Leatham, below left, and her husband live. Though the Leathams are now earning decent incomes, the booming housing market in Idaho Springs has priced them out. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOANNA KULESZA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6-BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Commuting; Prices; Skiing; Rentals; Affordable housing; Employees; Housing developments; Employment; Towns; Deeds

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing Employees Housing developments Employment Deeds

Location: Colorado; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/17/business/economy/colorado-rocky-mountain-housing.html

Title: Can Affluence and Affordable Housing Coexist?:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182238

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-affluence-affordable-housing-coexist/docview/2853182238/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Can Affluence and Affordable Housing Coexist in Colorado’s Rockies?

Author: Talmon Joseph Smith

Publication info: Talmon Joseph Smith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-affluence-affordable-housing-coexist-colorado/docview/2853062007/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In the recreation-fueled, amenity-rich economy of Colorado’s Rocky Mountain region, there are two peak seasons: summer, with its rafting, hiking, fishing and biking, and the cold months filled with skiing and other winter activities.
And then there is “mud season” — a liminal moment in spring when the alpine environment, slowly then suddenly, begins to thaw and only a trickle of tourists linger.
It’s a period that workers in other places might bemoan. But for much of the financially stretched workforce serving the assemblage of idyllic mountain towns across the state, a brief drop-off in business this spring was a respite.
During a slow shift on a 51-degree day at the Blue Stag Saloon — a nook on Main Street in the vacation hub of Breckenridge — Michelle Badger, a veteran server, half-joked with her co-workers that “this winter was hell.”
Crowds were larger than ever. And workers in the old Gold Rush town still enjoy the highs of the easy camaraderie and solid tips that come with service jobs in the area. But it was all sobered by the related headaches of soaring rents and acute understaffing, which left employees, managers and demanding customers feeling strained.
Working in mountain towns like Breckenridge, Silverthorne, Dillon and Frisco in Summit County would feel like a fairer bargain, Badger and her colleagues said, if they could better afford living close by.
Long commutes are common throughout America. But rent in hamlets among the wilderness on the outskirts of town are becoming burdensome too.
Job growth has severely outpaced the stock of shelter throughout Colorado. Median rent in Frisco — which a decade ago was considered a modest “bedroom community” for commuting employees — is about $4,000 a month, according to Zillow, and 90% above the national median. Homebuyers buttressed by family money abound.
The wage floor for most jobs in and around the county — from line cook to ski lift operator — is at least $18 an hour, or roughly $37,000 a year. Yet for those not lucky enough to land a rare slot in subsidized local employee housing, it’s not uncommon to live an hour or more away to attain a livable budget.
As that happens, the contingent displaced by the rich ripples outward down rural highway corridors and, in turn, displaces the farther-flung working poor.
Inequality has always been rampant within the orbit of popular destinations. But the financial knock-on effects of those ritzy spheres have expanded as the pandemic-induced surge in remote work has supercharged divides.
Wanderlust-filled white-collar workers abruptly discovered that multiweek visits or even permanent relocations were possible for them and their families. Those seeking investment properties saw the opportunities of this hybrid-driven land rush as well, and pounced.
Longtime residents have had a front-row seat.
Matt Scheer — a 48-year-old musician who grew up on a ranch eastward in El Paso County, where “as soon as we could carry the milk bucket we were milking the cow” — is the sort of extroverted jack-of-all-trades who typifies the spirit (and the wistful brand) of Summit County.
Having moved near Breckenridge in the early 2000s to ski, hike, fly fish and work around town, he’s relieved that he managed to pick up his place in 2012 for $240,000 with a fixed-rate mortgage. Prices in his tucked-away French Creek neighborhood — a hilly, unincorporated patch with modest double-wide manufactured homes — have more than tripled.
Though he’s a loyal resident with little interest in ever moving, Scheer said he “can’t really leave.”
For a payout of tens of thousands of dollars from the local government, he recently signed onto a hefty “deed restriction” for his property, banning its use for Airbnb stays, limiting any potential renter or buyer to the workforce of Summit, and limiting any potential resale price. And he did it with pride.
It’s part of a growing program led by Breckenridge and other local governments to limit gentrification without licensing a large buildup of new developments. (Deed restrictions in destination areas got off to a quieter start in the 2010s but have ticked up.)
Incumbent property owners willing to sacrifice lucrative short-term vacation rental income see it as a fair trade-off, key to keeping long-term residents and the dashing contours of their towns’ terrain. Policy critics, and frustrated local renters fighting over limited spots, say it is an inadequate tool for the scale and source of the problem: a lack of units.
Those critics include the governor of Colorado, Jared Polis, who is skeptical that lump-sum payments to owners in exchange for deed restrictions will be a sufficient incentive to broadly move the needle on affordability.
“There is no silver bullet,” he said in an interview. “But one of the areas that we have focused on is removing the barriers to additional home construction.” He added that “housing is not a problem that you can solve by throwing more money at the existing housing stock.”
His sweeping legislation to ensure “a home for every Colorado budget” by preempting local land-use laws and directly loosening zoning rules statewide died in the state Senate in May, after some initial momentum. All but one of the mayors in the state’s Metro Mayors Caucus issued a letter opposing the plan.
‘It’s Either Five Mil or Five Jobs’
As politicians jockey, many resourceful Coloradans find ways to make do.
Scheer, for instance, has picked up over 30 music gigs through the end of summer, paying about $100 an hour — though he acknowledges it’s his locked-in, lower housing costs that make his lifestyle workable.
During a practice jam session and impromptu afternoon party of 20- to 40-somethings at Scheer’s place in the spring, his pal and fellow guitarist, Bud Hallock (the other half of their occasional duo band, Know Good People), explained the grind people face by echoing the playfully hard-nosed aphorism uttered around town: “It’s either five mil or five jobs.”
“If you’re willing to put in the work, you’ll be able to,” argues Hallock, who moved out West shortly after graduating from St. Lawrence University in 2015. Hallock has three jobs, he said, adding, “I don’t think it’s the God-given right of anyone to come to a ski town and have it easy.”
For many longtime residents and transplants alike, it has become harder to finesse: Even as Summit County adds waves of remote workers, it has experienced net negative migration since 2020. It’s a trend mirrored in the larger urban areas of Denver and Boulder, where the share of people working remotely is among the highest in the country, as homelessness rises.
Tamara Pogue, a member of Summit County’s governing board, said the mountain towns and valley cities of the Front Range near Fort Collins and Colorado Springs as well as those out by the Western Slope struggled with an “affordability issue” similar to the nation’s big cities for the same reason: “We’re supply-constrained.”
“The problem is the average cost of a single-family home in Summit County so far this year is $2.14 million,” Pogue said. “Not one job makes that affordable.”
The stock available is limited: 70% of homes in the county are second homes that sit vacant most of the year or serve as short-term rentals, she said, typically Airbnbs.
As a single mother of three, Pogue bought a 1,400-square-foot duplex for $525,000 in 2018 — a rarity, if not an impossibility, now. She said a determination to prevent “mountain communities” from becoming “towns without townspeople” had driven her to become a staunch YIMBY, or a “yes in my backyard” supporter of homebuilding efforts, against the wishes of perceived NIMBYs, or the “not in my backyard” voices.
Pogue and her allies argue that the relatively slow pace of building in the Rockies, despite the area’s popularity and rising prices, is a subtle form of denial.
“Everyone wants to be here, whether they work here or not,” she added, “and so we have this spiral.”
If, When, Where and How to Build More
A few affordable-housing projects visibly chug along in Summit near the airport service road, not far from Kingdom Park Court, one of a handful of mobile home parks in the county with pricey lot rents. But getting middle-income developments greenlit can be a slog. Many proponents of limiting development note that about 80% of the county is restricted federal public land, putting a ceiling on what can be done. (There’s a nascent pilot program with the U.S. Forest Service to approve some apartments on leased land.) In the meantime, the well-off are gobbling up much of what’s left.
Just north of downtown Silverthorne sits Summit Sky Ranch — a sprawling development with homes starting around $1 million, with a pledge of “bringing modern mountain living to over 400 acres of pristine natural beauty” in the valley. It quickly sold out and many have moved in, lured by a private observatory and private access to a river bend.
Laurie Best, the longtime planning manager for housing in the community development department for the Town of Breckenridge, said she had emphasized deed-restriction policies and more generally trying to preserve existing units to reduce the need for new ones.
Best and her backers have acceded to some construction at a slow and steady pace, but they staunchly oppose taller, dense multifamily buildings, which are not, as she put it, “consistent with the character of the town.”
In several counties, there has been a swell in “conservation easements” — legal agreements between private landowners and local governments to guard wildlife and scenic open space by permanently banning development. The trend led the state to create a Division of Conservation in 2018 with an oversight commission to authenticate the contracts.
Eric Budd, a leader of a movement in Colorado called Bedrooms Are for People — which favors expanding land use and more widely permitting apartments, duplexes and triplexes — scoffs at the uptick in easements. He contends that what he tartly calls a “xenophobic attitude of ‘there’s only so much to go around’” is self-defeating.
Trying to restrict access to a hot commodity — in this case, half of a state — won’t end well for anyone, he said, and a California-level, cost-of-living crisis is only five or 10 years away.
Down in the foothills of the Rockies in Boulder, where Budd lives, school enrollment and the overall population have declined along with affordability, as remote-worker migration has picked up.
In some sense, the arguments against restrictionism amount to a water-balloon analogy: squeezing leads to odd bulges in random places.
Before the pandemic, Leadville, an old mining town 15 minutes from the trailhead of the highest peak in the Rockies, was an affordable harbor for working-class Hispanic employees of the nearby vacation economies: just out of reach of the affluence around Aspen to the west and resorts near Vail to the north.
Since 2020, though, Leadville has become engulfed as those realms of wealth expand and overlap, causing rents and home prices to spike beyond what many can feasibly afford over time, with few other places to go.
Second-home owners constituted half of all home sales in 2020 and 2021.
Good Intentions Gone Wrong
Half of Colorado renters are officially defined as cost-burdened — spending more than 30% of their income on housing costs. And local economists suggest that the rate has ticked even higher in mountain locales.
For Kimberly Kreissig, a real estate agent in Steamboat Springs, a year-round recreation hub with natural hot springs near Wyoming, the affordability crisis in “the high country” has no simple villain. For years, her practice in Steamboat — where the average home price is above $1 million, compared with $580,000 in early 2019 — included both upper-middle-class, first-time homebuyers and luxury-market sellers.
In 2018, she and her husband, a developer, broke ground on a dense, 50-unit multifamily project in Steamboat designed for people “in that $75,000 range,” she said — “for instance, my office manager here.”
“We had grandiose plans that we were going to be able to sell these things for $300,000,” Kreissig said, but they were foiled by several factors.
Even before COVID-19 struck, “the demand was just so through the roof that people were offering us more than list price right out of the chutes,” she said, with precontract bids coming in “twice as high as we anticipated.”
Then, once lockdowns ended, the remote-working cohort swooped in — just as labor and material costs shot up for the contractors still finishing some units. Before long, many families she sold units to in 2019 for around $400,000 realized that because of the housing boom they had “over $300,000 in equity” in their homes — and with interest rates so low, they could parlay a different (or additional) purchase. Many apartment owners began independently flipping their units to investors and buyers of second homes who were willing to pay well above the list prices.
“One flip near the end for one of the units was for $800,000,” Kreissig said. “We tried to be the good guys.”
One way to respond to house flippers is through greater deed restriction, which Steamboat has enforced in a few neighborhoods, along with some short-term rental restrictions, not unlike other hot spots. The area has also benefited from the state’s Middle Income Housing Authority pilot program, which has put up a few buildings in town. But Steamboat still has a shortage of 1,400 units, according to a report from local authorities.
A big break came when an anonymous donor recently purchased a 534-acre farm property, Brown Ranch, and turned it over to the Yampa Valley Housing Authority, with instructions that it be used for long-term affordable housing for local workers.
It came as welcome news to the area’s middle class. And yet the sheer surprise, and luck, of the donation is indicative of broader, underlying tensions that typically drive community-level and state debates: Is more supply a threat to both cultural vibes and property price appreciation, or a win-win opportunity to flourish?
Kreissig thinks it all comes back to “the kind of ‘not in my backyard’ mentality” that a silent majority holds.
“For the people that are already ‘in,’ there’s a fair share of folks that are saying, ‘You know, ‘I’m in, we don’t we don’t need any more growth,’” she said. “But you can’t stop growth.”
Forced to Move Downhill
In March 2020, Nancy Leatham, 34, was making just above the minimum wage, living with her husband and their baby daughter in Idaho Springs — a little city above 7,000 feet wedged between a steep crag and an I-70 exit, far downhill from chic resort land.
They struggled to get by “right during the height of the pandemic, when everything was shut down,” wiping out their income, she said. It felt like a repeat of her teenage years during the mortgage-induced financial crisis when her family’s business as excavation contractors — preparing sites for home construction — went belly-up, and their house was foreclosed upon.
In spring 2020, “I had to start going to food banks and stuff to get food,” she said. “And we had to sell a car, and just stuff like that to, like, to make ends meet.”
By 2021, her husband, Austin, had found a job at Walmart making $19 an hour, while she was promoted at Starbucks, becoming a manager at $18 an hour, plus bonus — and “we had our child tax credit,” she added.
“I started looking for a house because we had really great income,” roughly $80,000 before taxes, she said. “I grew up in poverty, since 2008 especially, and we’d been living with food insecurity and stuff, so I was like ‘Look at us, we made it!’”
But almost as soon as she started house hunting, she realized that, within months, the booming housing market had far outpaced the good labor market. They had been priced out of their sleepy, snowy town, after merely a few bidding wars. The average home price — $340,000 at the start of 2019 — is up 66%. Higher mortgage rates hurt, too.
Many of the Starbucks employees Leatham managed owned their homes rather than rented, she said, and “half left because they were able to sell their house off for considerably more than they were when they bought.”
Hoping to buy or rent something bigger than what she called a “closet” apartment, Leatham, who now has a second child, is preparing for the cold reality of “having to move downhill” — though where exactly is unclear: 15 miles down the corridor, renters and buyers run into coveted areas near Golden and Denver.
Recently, a woman visited the Starbucks Leatham works at, she said, and was dressed very much like an out-of-towner. They chit-chatted at the register, and the woman mentioned she was in town to check on a recent property purchase.
Getting her hopes up for a nicer place, Leatham pried a bit:
“I was like, ‘Oh, nice, what are you going to do with it?’ And she’s like, ‘Oh, it’s for rental.’”
“And I’m like, ‘Oh, cool.’ And then she goes, ‘Short-term rental.’”
“And then, I went ‘Dang it!’ But really loud, and I made her feel awful — I didn’t mean to make her feel that way.”
Grand Sights, Harsh Reality
Back up the I-70 corridor in Frisco, a sprawling Walmart parking lot often occupied by unhoused people living out of their cars and campers is tucked in front of a commercial complex with a high-end furniture store, a Whole Foods and a craft microbrewery.
It’s one of the few places for the growing homeless population to go, since overnight parking is widely banned in Summit County, even in sparse hamlets like Blue River, perched just beyond Breckenridge above 10,000 feet.
The effects of the global and national wealth parked in the Rockies often cascade downstream like the snow melt that carves the rivers. But it’s a force that can be identified in any direction.
For many, if not most, homeowners in high-country counties like Summit, the hard truth is that only so much can be done if the very idea of mountain living — experiencing nature, removed from the bustling downhill hassles of the outside world — is to be maintained.
“It’s funny, on our little block, there’s probably, you know, 10 homes — and on a beautiful day, which we have a lot of, you’ll see all of us standing out in our driveway, taking pictures,” said Best of Breckenridge’s community development department. “I must have the same picture 100 times because it’s so stunning when you go out there, and you’re still in awe of where we live. So I totally get the folks that want to be here.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Commuting; Skiing; Rentals; Affordable housing; Employees; Housing developments; Employment; Towns; Deeds

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing Employees Housing developments Employment Deeds

Location: Colorado; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Restaurants; Starbucks Corpora tion; Western States (Us); Boulder (Colo); Whole Foods Market Inc; Wyoming; Gentrification; Steamboat Springs (Colo); Banking And Financial Institutions; Aspen (Colo); Foreclosures; Golden (Colo); United States; ZillowCom; Economic Conditions And Trends; Fort Collins (Colo); Income; Careers And Professions; Denver (Colo); Rafts; Airbnb; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; Alpine Skiing; Interest Rates; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); California; Automobiles; Wilderness Areas; Leadville (Colo); Telecommuting; Hiring And Promotion; Summer (Season); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Mountains; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Population; Zoning; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Bicycles And Bicycling; Mortgages; Food Insecurity; Discrimination; Discount Selling; Music; Local Government; Health Foods; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Workplace Environment; Drivers Education; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Forest Service; Area Planning And Renewal; Stocks And Bonds; Two Thousands (Decade); Vail (Colo); Income Inequality; Real Estate (Commercial); Idaho; Polis, Jared S (1975 ); Affordable Housing; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Snow And Snowstorms; Second Homes And Non Primary Residences; Colorado; Walmart Stores Inc; Seasons And Months; Land Use Policies; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Skiing; Parking; Building (Construction); Homeless Persons; Spring (Season); Winter (Season); Paid Time Off; Poverty; Hikes A nd Hiking; Minimum Wage; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Hot Springs; Elections, State Legislature; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; St Lawrence University; Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Economy; Urban Areas; Colorado Springs (Colo); Coffeehouses; Breckenridge (Colo); Mayors; Forests And Forestry; Luxury Goods And Services; Parks And Other Recreation Areas

Title: Can Affluence and Affordable Housing Coexist in Colorado’s Rockies?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 19, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-19T15:16:43Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853062007

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-affluence-affordable-housing-coexist-colorado/docview/2853062007/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Residents Wonder if Lahaina Will Still Have a Place for Them: [National Desk]

Author: Cowan, Jill; Corkery, Michael

Publication info: Cowan, Jill; Corkery, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/residents-wonder-if-lahaina-will-still-have-place/docview/2850452626/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hawaii has long endured battles for resources among developers, tourists, Natives and workers. Now, many who lost homes and jobs wonder if there will be a place for them in Lahaina.
For years, Lahaina has had everything that makes Hawaii special: sweeping views of the Pacific, a charming main street and a rich cultural heritage.
Lahaina also has everything that makes Hawaii an increasingly difficult and frustrating place to live. Tourism dominates, putting pressure on the environment and disrupting daily life. Wealthy visitors drive home values to astonishing heights (the median home price in the Lahaina area is $ 1.7 million), placing homeownership out of reach for most permanent residents. Within its small patch of western Maui, the oceanfront community of 13,000 people -- once a center of whaling and ancient Hawaiian power -- contains all of the economic tensions that have simmered beneath Hawaii's gorgeous surface for years.
Those strains are being laid bare by the devastating and deadly wildfires that leveled Lahaina last week.
Officials and residents stress that the fires did not discriminate, wiping out fancy vacation rentals and modest homes dating back to the days of Lahaina's sugar plantations. Mick Fleetwood, a leader of the band Fleetwood Mac, lost his popular restaurant, Fleetwood's on Front Street, and the staff members lost their employer.
And many have pointed to the way the community has immediately stepped up to help each other, with volunteers and neighbors offering food, places to stay and transportation. Yet, as residents were allowed back into their neighborhoods on Friday for a first look at the damage, many worried about how or whether they could rebuild -- a reflection of the disparity among Hawaii's multilayered society of renters, owners, part-time and full-time residents, low-wage workers, newcomers and Native Hawaiians. Some Hawaii residents who lost their homes and jobs said they could not see how they would be able to stay.
Many said they feared Lahaina would simply re-emerge as another Waikiki, dominated by corporate-owned luxury brands and packed with tourists.
"My concern is that we're going to lose a lot of people, because it's going to take too long" to recover, said Angie Leone, 46, who built a business in Lahaina managing 50 rental properties with 12 employees. After the fires, about five units were left. Four of her employees lost their homes.
The Leones' own home just outside Lahaina was spared. But the community she and her family love had begun unraveling. Already, a friend who ran a jewelry business in Lahaina told her that he planned to move his family to Kentucky. She said she hoped officials would approve building permits for reconstruction and allow people to reopen businesses that employ workers quickly.
"I think the people of Lahaina would want it to be restored historically," she said. "The local community would not allow it to become a Waikiki. It needs to be preserved and rebuilt with the character and the heart that it has."
Her husband, Michael Leone, 48, added: "It won't be the same. But it could be better."
How this vivid microcosm of Hawaii recovers from the disaster could either end up exacerbating economic tensions or prove a turning point.
Angus McKelvey, a state senator who grew up in Lahaina and now represents parts of Maui, said the town was at a "fork in the road." Many of the neighborhoods that burned were densely populated with many of the town's original plantation-style homes that, over time, had been bought by investors and subdivided into apartments that were rented out to workers. Because of the town's density, he said, the destruction of the hundreds of homes there translates into as many as 6,000 people who are now homeless.
Mr. McKelvey, a Democrat, said the state should work swiftly to purchase and redevelop the land into higher-quality, affordable housing. The alternative of leaving it to market forces could lead to investors taking advantage of the tragedy "to put up more million-dollar homes," he said.
It's a "bold opportunity," he said, but "people are generally scared of what could emerge from the ashes."
To some, the fires could be the catalyst that brings more balance to the local economy by creating more housing for workers, or even increasing Maui's low property taxes on second homeowners to slow house price appreciation. But others fear the aftermath of the fires will create even more disparity.
"There's definitely concern that people or corporations will come in and take advantage of the desperation and buy property dirt-cheap," said Dallas Mahon, 27, who escaped the fire as it closed in on his apartment near the heart of Lahaina. He had been looking for work recently and had applied for a job at Cheeseburger in Paradise, a local restaurant chain, just before the fire struck.
Mr. Mahon, who had previously worked at a Hyatt hotel north of Lahaina, loves the community, he said, but he has been frustrated by the housing problems.
"A lot of the homes are just vacation rentals that people on the mainland bought and they're just Airbnbs or sit empty," so five to eight people end up living in a single house, he said.
Already, he said, the community has begun to worry about the town's future and whether people like he and his 80-year-old grandfather, who had worked at a bar in Lahaina for 10 years, will have a place in it.
Such fears are, in many ways, rooted in Hawaiian history. Jill Engledow, who lived in Maui for many years and has written several books about the Lahaina area, used to give presentations to newcomers, instructing them on how to respect the local culture.
One of Ms. Engledow's first lessons was to point out that "Hawaii was stolen" from its Native residents after it was annexed by the United States in the late 19th century, part of the nation's budding expansion into the Pacific.
When the sugar industry took root in the 20th century, there were so few Native Hawaiians still living there that the companies brought in immigrants from China, Japan and the Azores to work in the fields.
The demographics of the broader Lahaina region, which comprises 23,000 people and encompasses the town and the area to the north, mostly mirror those of Hawaii. About 9 percent of residents are Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and 26 percent are Asian, according to a report by the University of Hawaii's Economic Research Organization.
Many white residents, who now make up 39 percent of the population, started arriving in the 1960s, drawn by the surf and off-the-grid lifestyle.
During the last half-century, Lahaina transformed again from a center of agriculture to a tourism magnet. Pricey hotels went up on the oceanfront, visitors came and some decided to invest: They bought condos and time-shares, driving up prices and reducing the inventory for Lahaina's workers. As many as 40 percent of Lahaina's housing units are used for short-term rentals on sites like Airbnb, according to University of Hawaii data.
The coronavirus pandemic turbocharged the wealth stratification. Hawaii has the highest home prices in the United States, and the Lahaina area has among the highest prices of anywhere in Hawaii. Farther north from the town's center, away from the worst fire damage, an eight-bedroom house on a manicured cliff above the Pacific is currently listed for sale at $ 19.9 million. Across Maui County, waiters and waitresses have the most common job, making average annual wages of $ 49,000. Retail sales workers have the second-most common job and make $ 29,000 a year on average. In the Lahaina region, nearly half of the residents are renters, paying a median rent of $ 1,800 a month.
Kaila Razonable, 23, works as a hostess at a beloved fish restaurant on another part of the island, where tourists have continued to arrive for reservations they made months ago. She makes better money there than she has at other eateries, she said, and it's a job that pays enough for her to live, as many of her colleagues live paycheck to paycheck. And a night without tips can be painful.
Ms. Razonable, whose mother is Native Hawaiian and who grew up on the islands, said this week had given her second thoughts about a long-term career in hospitality. She enjoys and appreciates her job, she said, but has bristled at the behavior of some tourists while so many locals are suffering.
"There's literally homes being burned to the foundation, that level, and you're complaining that we can't get you seated early," she said. "We prioritize tourism over locals way too much."
Native Hawaiians, like Indigenous communities around the country, have deep connections with lands and the natural world. Ms. Razonable said that the fires were evidence that "we're not listening to the land, we're not heeding the signs, and this is the result."
Ms. Razonable said she was hopeful that Hawaii would be able to find a more sustainable balance between managing tourism and protecting local communities. She hopes tourists can be more respectful of Hawaiian culture and learn to view locals as people, not servants.
"There used to be a saying that when you come to Maui, it changes you," said Ms. Engledow, who recently moved to Oregon after 50 years in Hawaii, partly for a lower cost of living. "Now people come with so much money, they try to change Maui."
Emily Cochrane and Kyveli Diener contributed reporting.
Emily Cochrane and Kyveli Diener contributed reporting.
Some of the neighborhoods destroyed in Lahaina, Hawaii, contained original plantation-style homes that were subdivided and rented out to workers.; Brook Cretton and Spencer Kim searched the ashes of a friend's house on Saturday in Kula, in another part of Maui where wildfires also struck. Right, people who lost homes in Lahaina at an emergency shelter on Friday.; Frank Puglisi, who lost the boat in Lahaina that he lived on, camped out in a backyard in Kihei, to the south. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GO NAKAMURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Community; Houses; Forest & brush fires; Restaurants; Rentals; Tourism; Employment; Housing prices; Cultural heritage

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Employment Housing prices

Location: Hawaii; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: University of Hawaii; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/12/us/after-the-maui-fires-locals-fear-being-shut-out-of-recovery.html

Title: Residents Wonder if Lahaina Will Still Have a Place for Them:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 15, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest P eriodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850452626

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/residents-wonder-if-lahaina-will-still-have-place/docview/2850452626/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After the Maui Fires, Locals Fear Being Shut Out of Recovery

Author: Cowan, Jill; Corkery, Michael

Publication info: Cowan, Jill; Corkery, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-maui-fires-locals-fear-being-shut-out/docview/2850363647/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WAILEA, Maui — For years, Lahaina has had everything that makes Hawaii special: sweeping views of the Pacific, a charming main street and a rich cultural heritage.
Lahaina also has everything that makes Hawaii an increasingly difficult and frustrating place to live. Tourism dominates, putting pressure on the environment and disrupting daily life. Wealthy visitors drive home values to astonishing heights (the median home price in the Lahaina area is $1.7 million), placing homeownership out of reach for most permanent residents. Within its small patch of western Maui, the oceanfront community of 13,000 people — once a center of whaling and ancient Hawaiian power — contains all of the economic tensions that have simmered beneath Hawaii’s gorgeous surface for years.
Those strains are being laid bare by the devastating and deadly wildfires that leveled Lahaina last week.
Officials and residents stress that the fires did not discriminate, wiping out fancy vacation rentals and modest homes dating back to the days of Lahaina’s sugar plantations. Mick Fleetwood, the leader of the band Fleetwood Mac, lost his popular restaurant, Fleetwood’s on Front Street, and the staff members lost their employer.
And many have pointed to the way the community has immediately stepped up to help, with volunteers and neighbors offering food, places to stay and transportation.
Yet as residents were allowed back into their neighborhoods in recent days for a first look at the damage, many worried about how or whether they could rebuild — a reflection of the disparity among Hawaii’s multilayered society of renters, owners, part-time and full-time residents, low-wage workers, newcomers and Native Hawaiians. Some Hawaii residents who lost their homes and jobs said they could not see how they would be able to stay.
Many said they feared Lahaina would simply reemerge as another Waikiki, dominated by corporate-owned luxury brands and packed with tourists.
“My concern is that we’re going to lose a lot of people, because it’s going to take too long” to recover, said Angie Leone, 46, who built a business in Lahaina managing 50 rental properties with 12 employees. After the fires, about five units were left. Four of her employees lost their homes.
The Leones’ own home just outside Lahaina was spared. But the community she and her family love had begun unraveling. Already, a friend who ran a jewelry business in Lahaina told her that he planned to move his family to Kentucky. She said she hoped officials would approve building permits for reconstruction and allow people to reopen businesses that employ workers quickly.
“I think the people of Lahaina would want it to be restored historically,” she said. “The local community would not allow it to become a Waikiki. It needs to be preserved and rebuilt with the character and the heart that it has.”
Her husband, Michael Leone, 48, added, “It won’t be the same. But it could be better.”
How this vivid microcosm of Hawaii recovers from the disaster could either end up exacerbating economic tensions or prove a turning point.
Angus McKelvey, a state senator who grew up in Lahaina and now represents parts of Maui, said the town was at a “fork in the road.”
Many of the neighborhoods that burned were densely populated with many of the town’s original plantation-style homes that, over time, had been bought by investors and subdivided into apartments that were rented out to workers. Because of the town’s density, he said, the destruction of the hundreds of homes there translates into as many as 6,000 people who are now homeless.
McKelvey, a Democrat, said the state should work swiftly to purchase and redevelop the land into higher-quality, affordable housing. The alternative of leaving it to market forces could lead to investors taking advantage of the tragedy “to put up more million-dollar homes,” he said.
It’s a “bold opportunity,” he said, but “people are generally scared of what could emerge from the ashes.”
To some, the fires could be the catalyst that brings more balance to the local economy by creating more housing for workers or even increasing Maui’s low property taxes on second homeowners to slow house price appreciation. But others fear the aftermath of the fires will create even more disparity.
“There’s definitely concern that people or corporations will come in and take advantage of the desperation and buy property dirt-cheap,” said Dallas Mahon, 27, who escaped the fire as it closed in on his apartment near the heart of Lahaina. He had been looking for work recently and had applied for a job at Cheeseburger in Paradise, a local restaurant chain, just before the fire struck.
Mahon, who had previously worked at a Hyatt hotel north of Lahaina, loves the community, he said, but he has been frustrated by the housing problems.
“A lot of the homes are just vacation rentals that people on the mainland bought, and they’re just Airbnbs or sit empty,” so five to eight people end up living in a single house, he said.
Already, he said, the community has begun to worry about the town’s future and whether people like he and his 80-year-old grandfather, who had worked at a bar in Lahaina for 10 years, will have a place in it.
Such fears are, in many ways, rooted in Hawaiian history. Jill Engledow, who lived in Maui for many years and has written several books about the Lahaina area, used to give presentations to newcomers, instructing them on how to respect the local culture.
One of Engledow’s first lessons was to point out that “Hawaii was stolen” from its Native residents after it was annexed by the United States in the late 19th century, part of the nation’s budding expansion into the Pacific.
When the sugar industry took root in the 20th century, there were so few Native Hawaiians still living there that the companies brought in immigrants from China, Japan and the Azores to work in the fields.
The demographics of the broader Lahaina region, which comprises 23,000 people and encompasses the town and the area to the north, mostly mirror those of Hawaii. About 9% of residents are Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and 26% are Asian, according to a report by the University of Hawaii’s Economic Research Organization.
Many white residents, who now make up 39% of the population, started arriving in the 1960s, drawn by the surf and off-the-grid lifestyle.
During the last half-century, Lahaina transformed again from a center of agriculture to a tourism magnet. Pricey hotels went up on the oceanfront, visitors came, and some decided to invest: They bought condos and timeshares, driving up prices and reducing the inventory for Lahaina’s workers. As many as 40% of Lahaina’s housing units are used for short-term rentals on sites like Airbnb, according to University of Hawaii data.
The coronavirus pandemic turbocharged the wealth stratification. Hawaii has the highest home prices in the United States, and the Lahaina area has among the highest prices of anywhere in Hawaii. Farther north from the town’s center, away from the worst fire damage, an eight-bedroom house on a manicured cliff above the Pacific is currently listed for sale at $19.9 million.
Across Maui County, servers have the most common job, making average annual wages of $49,000. Retail sales workers have the second most common job and make $29,000 a year on average. In the Lahaina region, nearly half of the residents are renters, paying a median rent of $1,800 a month.
Kaila Razonable, 23, works as a host at a beloved fish restaurant on another part of the island, where tourists have continued to arrive for reservations they made months ago. She makes better money there than she has at other eateries, she said, and it’s a job that pays enough for her to live, as many of her colleagues live paycheck to paycheck. And a night without tips can be painful.
Razonable, whose mother is Native Hawaiian and who grew up on the islands, said the calamity had given her second thoughts about a long-term career in hospitality. She enjoys and appreciates her job, she said, but has bristled at the behavior of some tourists while so many locals are suffering.
“There’s literally homes being burned to the foundation, that level, and you’re complaining that we can’t get you seated early,” she said. “We prioritize tourism over locals way too much.”
Native Hawaiians, like Indigenous communities around the country, have deep connections with the land and the natural world. Razonable said that the fires were evidence that “we’re not listening to the land, we’re not heeding the signs, and this is the result.”
Razonable said she was hopeful that Hawaii would be able to find a more sustainable balance between managing tourism and protecting local communities. She hopes tourists can be more respectful of Hawaiian culture and learn to view locals as people, not servants.
“There used to be a saying that when you come to Maui, it changes you,” said Engledow, who recently moved to Oregon after 50 years in Hawaii, partly for a lower cost of living. “Now people come with so much money, they try to change Maui.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Community; Houses; Forest & brush fires; Restaurants; Rentals; Tourism; Housing prices; Cultural heritage

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Housing prices

Location: Hawaii; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: University of Hawaii; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Lahaina (Hawaii); Economic Conditions And Trends; Eco Tourism; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Fleetwood, Mick; Property Taxes; Elderly; Polls And Public Opinion; Fires And Firefighters; Altruism; United States Economy; Restaurants; Oregon; Seafood; United States; Sugar; Maui (Hawaii); Relocation Of Business; Airbnb; Kentucky; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Hyatt Hotels Corp; Part Time Employment; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Wages And Salaries; Azores Islands; Wildfires; Accidents And Safety; Workplace Environment; Fleetwood Mac; Deaths (Fatalities); Native Hawaiians; University Of Hawaii; Stocks And Bonds; Cooking And Cookbooks; Japan; Real Estate (Commercial); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Hawaii; Travel And Vacations; Fish And Other Marine Life; Anxiety And Stress; Luxury Goods And Services; China

Title: After the Maui Fires, Locals Fear Being Shut Out of Recovery

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 14, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-14T22:15:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850363647

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-maui-fires-locals-fear-being-shut-out/docview/2850363647/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Beyoncé and Taylor Swift Make the Nation Shimmer: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Smialek, Jeanna; Holman, Jordyn; Mcclinton-Holland, Desean; Shannon, Maggie

Publication info: Smialek, Jeanna; Holman, Jordyn; Mcclinton-Holland, Desean; Shannon, Maggie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beyoncé-taylor-swift-make-nation-shimmer/docview/2849425710/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Make the Whole Place Shimmer: America Spends Big for Beyoncé and Taylor Swift
Beyoncé told us that girls run the world. This summer, she and Taylor Swift seemed to prove it.
Both Beyoncé's "Renaissance" and Ms. Swift's "Eras" tours have become cultural phenomena that have swept across social media and are poised to shatter real-world records. "Eras" could top $ 1 billion in sales, making it the first concert in history to cross that mark. Some estimates suggest that Beyoncé's world tour could gross even more than that by the time it wraps in October.
It is the latest -- and some economists think final -- iteration of the "revenge spending" trend that took hold after the pandemic, in which people shifted their spending away from goods and toward experiences. Taylor Swift and Beyoncé fans have been shelling out on everything from secondhand tickets that cost more than a flight to Europe to fancy fingernails to match the singers' wardrobe.
While event spending overall is still just recovering to prepandemic levels, the marquee concerts this summer are spurring a lot of consumption.
The survey company QuestionPro estimates that Ms. Swift's concert could generate some $ 4.6 billion in economic activity in North America alone, taking into account both stadium capacity and people's reported spending plans on things like tickets, merchandise and travel. That would be roughly on par with the revenues the Beijing Olympics generated in 2008, after adjusting for inflation. Beyoncé's shows are expected to spur $ 4.5 billion in spending, based on a separate QuestionPro survey.
Cosmeticians, Cruises and Cocktails
It isn't just tickets that have motivated people to open their wallets. They are staying in hotel rooms, buying elaborate outfits, spending on flashy manicures and attending sideline parties that are generating business and boosting spending in host cities.
Shade Hotel, in Manhattan Beach, Calif., held a Taylor Swift pre-party where guests sported costumes, wore Swift-themed temporary tattoos and sipped on a signature "Lavender Haze" cocktail, a reference to one of the most popular songs on her latest album. Both the hotel and its neighbors reported surging demand that pushed up room rates and sold out many properties.
Boxie Studio in Los Angeles, which offers small photo studios of carefully curated backdrops for social media, was selling tickets that allowed visitors to film TikToks or snap Instagram shots in rooms that mirrored Taylor Swift music video sets. Props included the red scarf made famous by the song "All Too Well" and an "I love you" sign like the one that a lovelorn Ms. Swift flashed at her next-door neighbor in one 2009 music video.
Knock-on effects from the concerts have drawn the attention of national economic authorities: Sweden's statistics agency said that Beyoncé's tour helped to fuel inflation there, and a Federal Reserve survey of business contacts reported that Swifties had bolstered hotel revenues in the Philadelphia region.
While concert-related spending has not been concentrated enough to show up clearly in national data in the United States, some think it could help to slightly improve the odds of a gentle cool-down instead of an abrupt stop to economic activity. The events are keeping consumers active during a summer when shrinking savings might have otherwise slowed their spending.
"I think Taylor Swift is great for the soft landing," said Brett House, an economist at Columbia Business School.
"The Beyoncé tour, the Eras tour, are the latest instance of that phenomenon," he said -- and possibly the tail end, as consumers exhaust pandemic savings and return to more normal patterns. "It might be that Taylor Swift and Beyoncé timed their tours perfectly."
The concerts have become a big boost for local tourism, as the Fed report hinted. Airbnb reported that Cincinnati was the platform's top trending destination for July 4 weekend travel -- beating out places like Mykonos island in Greece and the Amalfi Coast in Italy. The Ohio city hosted Ms. Swift that weekend.
The shows have also driven broader consumer spending in cities like New York, where searches for lounges, aestheticians and nail technicians in the week leading up to Beyoncé's performance in East Rutherford, N.J., saw triple-digit percentage increases compared to the year before, according to an analysis by Yelp. Concertgoers were also booking their hair and nail appointments weeks out.
Raven Voorhees, the owner of Free Edge Beauty Studio in Brooklyn, said she spent the month of July doing nails for clients attending Beyoncé concerts in cities like Philadelphia, Nashville and East Rutherford. Her clients requested nails that aligned with the theme of the Renaissance tour: lots of silver, metallic, gold and sparkle.
"It's boosting business," Ms. Voorhees said. "We're talking about someone who's paying about $ 60 max for her service to now $ 150 because she's doing a new set, she's getting the works, all of the nail art and then, even after that, having to come back and having to do it again."
Tara Lewis, who analyzes Yelp's data around the "Beyoncé bump," said she had seen "pops in every city" which gives her confidence that Beyoncé is the reason behind the lift.
America's hot concert summer has been enabled, in large part, by a hot job market. Unemployment is low and wages are rising, which is helping people afford big purchases like tickets and pricey hotel rooms.
In a survey fielded for The New York Times, QuestionPro found that about 50 percent of Taylor Swift fans used regular income to buy tickets and outfits, while 9 percent used savings built up during the pandemic. A bigger share used savings amassed before or after the public health crisis or relied on family help. Just a small share -- 4 percent -- borrowed money to afford the tickets.
Beyoncé fans also funded tickets heavily out of their income, and spent $ 1,800 on average for the concert.
Many companies have figured out how to capitalize on the hype. Ahead of Beyoncé's New Jersey appearance, Circle Line Cruise -- a New York staple known for ferrying tourists around Manhattan -- transformed into a dance floor where boat riders learned the Renaissance concert choreography. The 78-year-old cruise line has been trying to find ways to attract new customers and give locals a reason to step on board, said Alexis Melendez, Circle Line's marketing director.
The event, which took place the Thursday before Beyoncé's MetLife performances, sold out. The three-level cruise ship held about 300 people who had paid $ 25 for the two-hour ride where attendees grooved to a D.J. playing Beyoncé's thirty-year discography and followed directions from the dance instructor Byron Freeman.
Circle Line doubled the amount of bartenders, who were making $ 16 Beyoncé themed cocktails with names like "Alien Supermarg" and "Rum the World."
In Los Angeles, companies also seized on Taylor Swift's concerts to host branded activities. Truly LA, a venue showcasing the hard seltzer brand, hosted a friendship-bracelet making event on the sidelines of Taylor Swift concerts.
Swifties wear and trade the jewelry as a reference to a lyric in a song from Ms. Swift's latest album, in which she instructs listeners to "make the friendship bracelets, take the moment and taste it." The events, which took place on Aug. 2 and Aug. 3, also encouraged attendees to trade their bracelets while listening to Ms. Swift and consuming specialty seltzer drinks.
"We are the visual."
Tara Vasquez, 39, stood outside of the Beyoncé show in late July in sparkling bejeweled eye make up, explaining that she has "a credit card for Beyoncé." She has gone to shows in each Beyoncé tour dating back to Destiny's Child, she said.
"Beyoncé is a splurge because she understands me; We grew up together," she said.
"Beyoncé says show up, and we show up," she said. The artist has not released a visual album with Renaissance like she had for her previous albums, but Ms. Vasquez said: "We are the visual."
"Beyoncé got a lot of money out of me: At this point, I'm going to claim her as a dependent on my taxes," Kalen Allen, 27, said outside of the MetLife stadium as he prepared to see Renaissance for the second night in a row. Professionally styled in a red and black ensemble, he estimated that he was spending $ 15,000 across multiple shows in multiple cities.
Bibi Peterson, 16, was attending Taylor Swift's concerts in Los Angeles three times -- including on Aug. 4 with her grandmother, brother and other family members. Her outfit cost her only about $ 25 in materials from Amazon, she estimated, because her grandmother sewed it. It was meant to look like the outfit Ms. Swift wore while singing "How You Get the Girl" during a previous tour, complete with glow lights.
"As a young woman, she really inspires me," Ms. Peterson said. "I love just watching her go out there and shimmer."
Public Transit and Party Buses
With thousands of people descending on stadiums across the country, transportation to the summer's big concerts also became an enterprise.
The founders of Foolonia, a New York-based event company founded in 2019 that focuses on providing inclusive spaces and unique outings, decided to offer group transit to Beyoncé's New Jersey concert. The entry fee was $ 100 and included Beyoncé trivia, giveaways like official tour merchandise and enough space to practice dance moves.
"Have we done a party bus before? No! But that's what we do," said Riley Wilson, a co-founder of the company. "We do divergent experiences."
And in Los Angeles, public transit stayed open late to ferry concertgoers. "We're enchanted that Taylor Swift fans have given a big boost to public transit across the United States this year -- and we're looking forward to spending our midnights with many of you very soon," the city's metro system punned on its website -- referencing Ms. Swift's song "Enchanted" and her recent album "Midnights."
Spending on the concerts may partly be taking the place of other events, vacations and consumption in general this summer: About half of respondents in both the Taylor Swift and the Beyoncé QuestionPro surveys said they would cut back elsewhere to afford the experiences, with many reporting that they were eating out less or skipping unnecessary entertainment.
Many attendees made it clear that having fun at the tours would be their priority.
"People are looking to experience a fun and groundbreaking way to celebrate their identity, to celebrate music," said Ozzie Henderson, a co-founder of Foolonia and a Beyoncé fan who started putting together his concert outfit since she announced her tour. "They're investing their money in a great experience."
Photograph Below, from left: nails all polished for the Beyoncé tour; and temporary tattoos for Taylor Swift's tour. Bottom, inside a Beyoncé party bus. Clockwise from near right: some fresh dance moves on a cruise boat in New York; more moves on a boat serving to move fans to and from the Beyoncé concert; and Swifties rule the party at the Shade Hotel in Manhattan Beach, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DeSEAN McCLINTON-HOLLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MAGGIE SHANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Clockwise from left: Mackenzie Behrle, left, and Gale Harrington at an "Eras" tour pop-up photo studio in Southern California; Jasmine Williams in her best hat outside MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J.; a Swift fan outside SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, Calif.; Los Angeles County's Metro service was ready for duty; dancing to music from Beyoncé on a cruise boat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGGIE SHANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DeSEAN McCLINTON-HOLLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU8-BU9) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU8, BU9.

Subject: Music videos; Consumers; Cost control; Economic activity; Pandemics; Musical performances; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Cost control Economic activity Social networks

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Swift, Taylor

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/11/business/beyonce-taylor-swift-tour-spending.html

Title: Beyoncé and Taylor Swift Make the Na tion Shimmer:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 13, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849425710

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beyoncé-taylor-swift-make-nation-shimmer/docview/2849425710/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Travel Insurance: What It Covers and When to Buy It: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Glusac, Elaine

Publication info: Glusac, Elaine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/travel-insurance-what-covers-when-buy/docview/2848070591/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The range of benefits and prices for different policies can be complicated. Here's what you need to know before you buy.
In the wake of Covid, travel insurance sales have spiked with the rebound in travel as people seek to protect their investments against flight delays and cancellations, extreme weather events and the persistence of the virus. But travel insurance is complicated with a range of benefits, inclusions and prices. Here's what you need to know before you buy.
Know what's covered
Generally speaking, travel insurance covers unforeseen events, like an illness in the family, the loss of a job or a natural disaster, that force you to cancel or interrupt a trip. It can also apply in the event of a strike at a transportation company, a terrorist attack in your destination or when your travel provider goes bankrupt. These are known as covered reasons. Most polices also include medical coverage, which is useful abroad where your health insurance may not cover you.
While policy prices vary based on age, length of travel and type of coverage, expect to pay between 4 to 10 percent of your entire trip cost to get insured.
Insure nonrefundable expenses
Travel insurance was designed to protect expenses you can't get back any other way when things go wrong. Think of nonrefundable Airbnb reservations or the cost of a cruise to the Galápagos.
If your hotel is refundable and you can get the value of your flights back in credits, you can skip travel insurance.
Buy close to booking
Travel insurers say the best time to buy travel insurance -- which usually takes effect within a day of purchase -- is just after making your travel plans to have the largest possible coverage window. A lot can happen between booking a Christmas market cruise in Europe in June and going in December.
With many plans, purchasing travel insurance 10 to 14 days from your first trip payment entitles you to "early purchase" benefits such as a waiver for pre-existing medical conditions that impact travel. If such a waiver is included, it is usually prominent in a summary of benefits, so read it carefully.
"Not all plans have a pre-existing condition waiver," said Suzanna Morrow, the senior vice president of InsureMyTrip.com, an online insurance marketplace. "If I have a heart condition and if something occurs, I don't want it excluded, so I would need to buy a policy within 14 days of the first dollar spent."
Hedge against the weather
You can't control the weather, but you can insure against its unexpected disruptions. For example, if you're ready to jump on great rates in the Caribbean during the height of hurricane season, buy your insurance immediately after booking so that if a hurricane develops and your destination is evacuated, you'll be covered.
"That's probably the biggest use case for travel insurance," said Stan Sandberg, a co-founder of TravelInsurance.com, an online marketplace. He counsels travelers to buy early -- if you wait and the storm is named it will be too late to insure against it, because it is no longer an unforeseen event.
Similarly, with winter travel, if you've purchased nonrefundable ski lift tickets and a storm prevents you from reaching the resort, you may be able to claim the unused portion of your ski pass.
This coverage may prove more valuable as climate change exacerbates weather events like hurricanes and tornadoes, which are considered "natural disasters" and are covered by most policies.
Pick up the phone
With the proliferation of automated insurance offers when you buy airline tickets or tours, travel insurance can feel like a one-size-fits-all product. It is not. Many policies, for example, exclude extreme sports like skydiving and mountain climbing, though there are specialty policies that include them.
If you have a specific concern -- a family member is sick or you're going heli-skiing -- the best way to know if a travel insurance policy will cover you is to call an insurer or the help line at a travel insurance marketplace to get advice.
"Tell them the what-if scenario and then you can get professional and accurate advice," Ms. Morrow said. "Thinking you're covered and then having your claim denied is salt in the wound."
Travel insurance does not cover 'unpleasantries'
What if you're dreading spending a week in an un-air-conditioned rental in England during a heat wave and decide you don't want to go? Most standard travel insurance will not cover a change of heart.
"Travel insurance doesn't cover you for unpleasantries," said Carol Mueller, the vice president for strategic marketing at Berkshire Hathaway Travel Protection.
A policy upgrade, Cancel for Any Reason coverage, which is not available in every state, will cover a change of heart, usually up until a few days before departure. Most only reimburse 50 to 75 percent of your costs and the purchase must be made within weeks of your initial trip payment. It will bump your insurance premium up 40 to 50 percent, according to the insurance marketplace Squaremouth.com, which only recommends C.F.A.R. for travelers with specific concerns not included under covered reasons for trip cancellation.
A relatively new twist in trip protection, Interruption for Any Reason, works like C.F.A.R. in that it reimburses a portion of your expenses and can be invoked if you decide to bail while you're on a trip for a reason that isn't covered by standard trip insurance. Normally, you must buy it within weeks of your initial trip payment and be 72 hours into a trip before you can use it.
Keep records
If something goes wrong and you need to make a claim, you'll need proof in the form of a paper trail. That could be receipts for clothing you purchased when your bags went missing, a hotel room required when your flight was canceled (along with flight cancellation notices from the airline) or a doctor's note stating that you have Covid -- or another illness -- and are unable to travel. (With Covid, a positive test taken at home is not considered official documentation for the purposes of a claim.)
Resist pressure to buy flight insurance
When purchasing an airline ticket online, most carriers offer travel insurance to cover the cost with some version of vaguely menacing language like, "Do you really want to risk your investment?" when you decline.
Don't fall for it. You may want to insure that ticket, but price out the policy elsewhere. A recent offer to insure a $ 428 flight for nearly $ 28 on an airline website cost $ 12 to $ 96 with a range of options at InsureMyTrip.com.
The $ 12 option was closest to the airline's offer. Caveat emptor.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Prices; Airlines; Hurricanes; Waivers; Skiing; Travel insurance; Insurance coverage

Business indexing term: Subject: Travel insurance Insurance coverage

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/09/travel/when-to-buy-travel-insurance.html

Title: Travel Insurance: What It Covers and When to Buy It:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 10, 2023

column: Travel 101

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848070591

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/travel-insurance-what-covers-when-buy/docview/2848070591/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2847191138/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Layoffs
Tyson Closes 4 Plants
To Lower Expenses
Tyson Foods is closing four chicken-processing plants as it looks to lower costs.
Tyson said Monday that the plants being closed are in North Little Rock, Ark.; Corydon, Ind.; Dexter, Missouri and Noel, Mo.
Tyson said that it will shift production to other facilities and halt operations at the four plants in the first two quarters of fiscal 2024. The company currently estimates having $ 300 million to $ 400 million in total charges, based on a preliminary analysis.
Tyson launched a plan in fiscal 2022 where it targeted $ 1 billion in productivity savings by the end of fiscal 2024. The company said that it realized more than $ 700 million of savings in fiscal 2022, which partially offset the impact of inflationary market conditions. Tyson topped its $ 1 billion target in the second quarter of fiscal 2023, more than a year ahead of its plan.
In May Tyson posted a surprise loss in its second quarter and cut its sales forecast due to the cost of plant closures. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cryptocurrency
PayPal Lends Clout
With Stablecoin Launch
Payments giant PayPal said on Monday it has launched a U.S. dollar stablecoin, becoming the first major financial technology firm to embrace digital currencies for payments and transfers.
PayPal's announcement, which lifted its shares 2.66 percent on Monday, reflects a show of confidence in the troubled cryptocurrency industry that has over the last 12 months grappled with regulatory headwinds that were exacerbated by a string of high-profile collapses.
While stablecoins -- cryptocurrency tokens whose monetary value is pegged to a stable asset to protect from wild volatility -- have been around for years, they have yet to make headway into the mainstream consumer payments ecosystem.
Instead, consumers mostly use stablecoins as a means to trade other cryptocurrencies, like Bitcoin and Ethereum. The world's largest stablecoin is Tether, followed by USD Coin, which is issued by the cryptocurrency provider Circle. REUTERS
International
Adobe's Figma Deal Faces E.U. Antitrust Inquiry
Adobe's $ 20 billion bid for cloud-based designer platform Figma could reduce competition in global markets for interactive product design tools and also shut out rivals, E.U. antitrust regulators said on Monday.
The European Commission said it opened an investigation into the deal after a preliminary review triggered concerns, confirming a Reuters story last month.
Tech deals have recently drawn sharp antitrust regulatory scrutiny amid fears that some bigger companies may be acquiring rival start-ups to shut them down.
Figma's web-based collaborative platform for designs and brainstorming is popular among tech companies including Zoom Video Communications, Airbnb and Coinbase.
The deal would remove a key rival and could allow Photoshop maker Adobe to restrict competition for supply of interactive product design tools, the E.U. watchdog said. REUTERS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS WHITE/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Digital currencies; Antitrust; Product design

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Antitrust Product design

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/07/business/08bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847191138

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2847191138/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 8, 2023

Last updated: 2025-09-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bored by the Bay Area, They Escaped to New York: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Picard, Lia

Publication info: Picard, Lia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bored-bay-area-they-escaped-new-york/docview/2846432947/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A couple who mainly thought of the city as a vacation spot learned the hard way that finding an apartment there was anything but boring.
For Mehek Khera and Rohit Khilnani, New York was a dream destination. When the couple moved to the United States in 2014 from New Delhi, where they both grew up, they visited the city frequently.
"New York is where we'd take vacations. We would end up spending like $ 2,000 or $ 3,000 for just a two-day stay," said Ms. Khera, 32.
Living in New York, however, seemed out of reach and it wasn't until the pandemic struck that they decided to make it their home. "We told ourselves that we wouldn't take a vacation for two years because this is where we usually took a vacation," Ms. Khera said. "That's how, in my mind, we were justifying the huge move and the cost associated with it."
Trying to move to New York, though -- filled with hurdles and setbacks -- was nothing like a vacation.
The couple had called Silicon Valley home for seven years. Mr. Khilnani, 33, worked in the tech industry and Ms. Khera worked in e-commerce for a large retailer, but the pandemic brought what they saw as the Bay Area's monotony to the forefront.
They grew tired of their two-hour daily commutes to their home in Santa Clara, Calif., and even the weather began to bore them. "I think staying home for two years, we realized nothing really changes much in the Bay Area when it comes to weather," Ms. Khera said. "We both wanted to enjoy four seasons."
New York's siren call was amplified after Ms. Khera founded her company, Niramaya Foods, which sells Indian-inspired dips, in early 2021. In the beginning, she sold her products online and visited retailers using Uber. "While starting the food company, I had to go from store to store to merchandise my items to give buyers new samples and to schedule in-person meetings," Ms. Khera said, because she doesn't drive.
But she anticipated that New York would provide more networking opportunities, and that the subway and a more walkable city would make it easier for her to market her products. Once Ms. Khera took the plunge into planning a cross-country move, it didn't take long for the process to become overwhelming. The apartment hunt started in October 2021, when Ms. Khera reached out to a broker suggested by Mr. Khilnani's colleagues. She acquainted herself with StreetEasy.
"We were not getting the actual feel of things," Ms. Khera said. "Like, this apartment looks great, but when we do a video tour, it looks different, and then we don't get to see what the street is like, what the people are like."
There was also the realization that she and Mr. Khilnani didn't have a good grasp on New York's varying neighborhoods.
They knew a visit to New York was the only way to learn its nuances. In December, they booked an Airbnb in New Jersey and trekked over to New York daily, viewing listings and exploring. "We came here in the worst possible weather, but it was Christmas. It was a good way to make sure it was what we really wanted," Ms. Khera said.
If StreetEasy was frustrating, nothing could have prepared Ms. Khera for the actual apartment hunt itself, chock-full of letdowns, usually in the form of misrepresented listings. In Midtown, they looked at high-rise buildings. "What you can't see is the smell of the building," she said. "So sometimes the walkways of the building had this moldy smell."
$ 4,950 | Upper West Side
Mehek Khera, 32, and Rohit Khilnani, 33
Occupations: Ms. Khera is the founder and chief executive of Niramaya Foods; Mr. Khilnani is a software engineer at Google.
Culture shock: When the couple first moved to the city they were surprised and overwhelmed by how constantly busy the streets were. "If we don't see that, that's when we feel like something is really wrong," Ms. Khera said. "Now we're used to it. We feel nice and comfortable."
Finding entrepreneurial support: Ms. Khera found support for her fledgling business through her neighborhood association. The group organizes weekly coffee chats and the neighbors were especially supportive. "They let me sample my dips at their annual Halloween event," Ms. Khera said. The neighbors were quick to buy her products and spread the word. "It provided validation and was really valuable at a time I didn't have marketing dollars," she added.
When Ms. Khera and Mr. Khilnani went back to Silicon Valley after two weeks, they didn't have a lease in hand, but they had a better perspective on the city. They knew they wanted to live in one of the more residential neighborhoods, close to Central Park if possible. Chelsea, where Mr. Khilnani works, was an option, too. The days dragged on and Ms. Khera began to wonder if they'd ever actually move to New York. Ms. Khera was committed to heading east, and Mr. Khilnani accepted a job offer, but New York seemed less certain.
By May, their lease was up in Santa Clara, and Mr. Khilnani suggested taking a leap of faith. "He's like, let's go to New York and live in a hotel," Ms. Khera said. Turns out, the leap was unnecessary. As they were packing up their apartment, Ms. Khera got a phone call from a broker in New York. "He said an apartment became available, but you have to sign the lease today," she recalled.
It was a listing that Mr. Khilnani had saved on StreetEasy during their initial search.: a one-bedroom, two-bath on the Upper West Side. The apartment was over their budget, and it was taken quickly, but the broker gave them a virtual tour at the time to give them a sense of the apartment, and they stayed in communication.
A change in the current renters' lives provided Ms. Khera and Mr. Khilnani with an opening.
They signed the lease but faced another stumbling block not visible in the virtual tour. When they arrived in New York and walked into the apartment, there were piles of dirt everywhere, and a stickiness from unknown sources. When Ms. Khera opened the built-in microwave, she discovered layers of a black substance and more dirt.
"I still don't use that microwave oven at all, even though it's clean now," she said. The shower looked like it had never been cleaned at all, and a muck-like sheen covered the outside of the windows, which they had to get special permission to clean. In total, the cleaning bill was $ 1,600, which the landlord covered.
And there was yet another quirk of the apartment that surprised the couple. A safe was built into the floor of the bedroom and covered by a wooden box. "It's a funny detail," Ms. Khera said. "They didn't tell us about it so we just saw this wooden box on the floor when we moved in. It doesn't bother us at all, though."
They also don't have the code for the safe, and have never opened it. The wooden box serves as a stand for their laundry hamper. "It works perfectly for that," Ms. Khera said.
Renter's remorse settled in for Ms. Khera. The mess was one thing, but the electrical kitchen appliances, which Ms. Khera relies on for work and enjoyment, also weren't working. Feeling defeated, she went to the neighborhood taco shop and called her husband. "I was like, 'Can you come back home? The oven is beyond what you can ever imagine. And I think we made the biggest mistake of our lives,"' Ms. Khera said.
Her husband remained optimistic. "I did see some of the challenges, like the kitchen, but from my perspective there was a lot to look forward to," Mr. Khilnani said. "Specifically, there was so much to explore around the city."
After a few months passed, however, they settled in. All cleaned up, a well-appointed apartment revealed itself to Ms. Khera. There's enough space in the bedroom for Ms. Khera's desk, the primary bathroom has marble counters, exposed brick walls in the hallway and kitchen and bay windows in the living room -- all adding character to the apartment.
The city still gives them a sense of being on vacation. "On the weekends, we're able to walk to Central Park or to go to SoHo for shopping or eat at the best restaurants in the world," she said. "I think it does feel like a vacation."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
Top, Rohit Khilnani, left, and Mehek Khera in their apartment on West 69th Street in Manhattan. Above, once it was cleaned and the appliances repaired, Ms. Khera learned to love the kitchen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE4.

Subject: Parks & recreation areas; Microwaves; Vacations; Pandemics

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/31/realestate/renters-bay-area-nyc-move.html

Title: Bored by the Bay Area, They Escaped to New York:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

column: Renters

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846432947

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bored-bay-area-they-escaped-new-york/docview/2846432947/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Michigan, A Trump Ally Gets Charged With Felonies: [National Desk]

Author: Vigdor, Neil; Berzon, Alexandra; Corasaniti, Nick

Publication info: Vigdor, Neil; Berzon, Alexandra; Corasaniti, Nick. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/michigan-trump-ally-gets-charged-with-felonies/docview/2844475324/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A key figure in a multistate effort to overturn the 2020 election, Mr. DePerno lost his race for Michigan attorney general in 2022. He later finished second to lead the state's Republican Party.
Matthew DePerno, a key orchestrator of efforts to help former President Donald J. Trump try to overturn the 2020 election in Michigan and an unsuccessful candidate for state attorney general last year, was arraigned on four felony charges on Tuesday, according to documents released by D.J. Hilson, the special prosecutor handling the investigation.
The charges against Mr. DePerno, which include undue possession of a voting machine and a conspiracy to gain unauthorized access to a computer or computer system, come after a nearly yearlong investigation in one of the battleground states that cemented the election of Joseph R. Biden Jr. as president.
Former State Representative Daire Rendon was also charged with two crimes, including a conspiracy to illegally obtain a voting machine and false pretenses.
Both Mr. DePerno and Ms. Rendon were arraigned remotely on Tuesday before Chief Judge Jeffery Matis, according to Richard Lynch, the court administrator for Oakland County's Sixth Circuit, and remained free on bond.
The charges were first reported by The Detroit News.
Mr. DePerno denied any wrongdoing and said that his efforts "uncovered significant security flaws" in a statement from his lawyer, Paul Stablein.
"He maintains his innocence and firmly believes that these charges are not based upon any actual truth and are motivated primarily by politics rather than evidence," Mr. Stablein said.
The criminal inquiry in Michigan has largely been overshadowed by developments in Georgia, where a grand jury is weighing charges against Mr. Trump for trying to subvert the election, but both are part of the ongoing reckoning over the conspiracy theories about election machines promoted by Mr. Trump and his allies.
The efforts to legitimize the falsehoods and conspiracy theories promoted widely by Mr. Trump and his allies continued long after the Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the Capitol and after Mr. Biden took office. In Arizona, such efforts included the discredited election audit of Maricopa County led by Republicans in the state legislature.
In a statement, Mr. Hilson said, "Although our office made no recommendations to the grand jury as to whether an indictment should be issued or not, we support the grand jury's decision and we will prosecute each of the cases as they have directed in the sole interests of justice."
Dana Nessel, Michigan's attorney general and a Democrat who went on to defeat Mr. DePerno in the November election, has not been involved in the investigation since the appointment of a special prosecutor in August last year. In a statement on Tuesday, Ms. Nessel said that the allegations "caused undeniable harm to our democracy" and issued a warning for the future.
"The 2024 presidential election will soon be upon us. The lies espoused by attorneys involved in this matter, and those who worked in concert with them across the nation, wreaked havoc and sowed distrust within our democratic institutions and processes," Ms. Nessel said. "We hope for swift justice in the courts."
The charges stemmed from a bizarre plot hatched by a group of conservative activists in early 2021 to pick apart voting machines in at least three Michigan counties, in some cases taking them to hotels and Airbnb rentals as they hunted for evidence of election fraud.
In the weeks after the 2020 election, he drew widespread attention and the admiration of Mr. Trump when he filed a lawsuit challenging the vote tallies in Antrim County, a rural area in Northern Michigan where a minor clerical error fueled conspiracy theories.
He falsely claimed that voting machines there had been rigged, a premise that was rejected as "idiotic" by William P. Barr, an attorney general under Mr. Trump, and "demonstrably false" by Republicans in the Michigan Senate.
Mr. Hilson, the prosecutor in Muskegon County appointed as special prosecutor, had initially delayed bringing charges, asking a state judge to determine whether it was against state law to take possession of a voting machine without the secretary of state's permission or a court order. A judge determined last month that doing so was against the law, clearing the way for charges.
Democrats swept the governor's race and other statewide contests last fall, in addition to flipping the full Legislature for the first time in decades. Mr. DePerno, who was endorsed by Mr. Trump, lost the attorney general's race by eight percentage points.
This year, Mr. DePerno had been a front-runner to lead the Michigan Republican Party after its disappointing showing in last year's midterm election, but he finished second to another election-denier: Kristina Karamo.
In his campaign to lead the G.O.P. in Michigan, Mr. DePerno had vowed to pack the party's leadership ranks with Trump loyalists, close primaries to just Republicans and ratchet up the distribution of absentee ballot applications to party members -- despite what he said was lingering opposition to voting by mail within the party's ranks.
His candidacy was supported by Mike Lindell, the MyPillow chief executive who has spread conspiracy theories about election fraud and appeared at a fund-raising reception for Mr. DePerno in Lansing on the night before the chairmanship vote.
Mr. DePerno lost to Ms. Karamo after three rounds of balloting at the state party convention, a process that was slowed for several hours by the use of paper ballots and hand counting.
Danny Hakim contributed reporting.
Danny Hakim contributed reporting.
Photograph Matthew DePerno This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Indictments; Voting machines; State elections; Conspiracy; Attorneys general; Voter fraud; Presidential elections; Grand juries; Judges & magistrates; Political parties

Location: United States--US; Michigan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/01/us/politics/matt-deperno-michigan-trump.html

Title: In Michigan, A Trump Ally Gets Charged With Felonies:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 2, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2844475324

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/michigan-trump-ally-gets-charged-with-felonies/docview/2844475324/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

One Woman Finds an Island of Her Own: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-woman-finds-island-her-own/docview/2843499832/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Duck Ledges Island," the listing read, "offered in its entirety."
The accompanying photos showed a scene of stark beauty: a tiny spit of rock sitting in clear blue waters, with a little cabin on it and nothing else -- not even a single tree -- to block the 360-degree views of ocean and sky.
The island was in Wohoa Bay, in Downeast Maine, along a section of rocky coastline known as the Bold Coast.
To anyone who has fantasized about their own private island getaway -- and who hasn't, judging by the way such idylls capture worldwide attention? -- the ad for Duck Ledges, when it appeared last June, was a clarion call. One of the people who answered it was Charlotte Gale.
A licensed massage therapist from New Jersey, Ms. Gale had a rough couple of years. Her business vanished overnight with the pandemic and the lockdowns. She had to sell her house, she said, with its Victorian garden she'd grown and tended over a decade.
Ms. Gale moved to a rental in Hoboken, planning to stay for a couple of years while she figured out her next step. But then her landlord raised her rent by $ 770 a month.
She had some money from the sale of her home and began searching online listings for a simple cottage with space for a garden, in a nearby state like Delaware or Connecticut. Nothing stood out. No place seemed special.
Then she widened her search to Maine and saw Duck Ledges.
By that point, the listing had gone viral, and the island's owner, Billy Milliken, was fielding calls from all over. But Mr. Milliken had a unique request, as Ms. Gale learned when she answered the ad. The buyer had to spend one night on the island before making an offer. There is no running water and nothing but seals and ducks and birds to keep you company.
Days later, Ms. Gale stood at the marina in tiny Jonesport, a working lobster fishing village with no resort hotels, little dining other than a pizza shop and not a mall or chain retailer for miles. Culture shock for a Jersey Girl.
Christine Crowley, Ms. Gale's real estate agent, remembers her on the dock that day, waiting for Mr. Milliken to take her out to the island in his boat.
"She had with her just one bag," Ms. Crowley said. "She was wearing shorts. She had on flip-flops or sandals. She was a little hesitant at first. She started to get a little bit of cold feet. She said, 'Am I crazy? Can I do this?' I said, 'You need to stay somewhere tonight."'
When Ms. Gale got to the one-and-a-half-acre island, she took in her surroundings -- the cedar-clad cabin standing there improbably yet invitingly; the flat rock ledges where seals sunbathe; the little sandy beaches and tide pools. It was a summer day with clear blue skies -- "the most perfect top 10 day," as Ms. Gale would later say.
She was not on the island 10 minutes before she pulled out her phone.
"As soon as Billy and his friend dropped her off, Charlotte called me almost immediately," Ms. Crowley, who had stayed on shore, recalled. "She said, 'I want it. I've got to have it."'
To Share and Protect
The story of Duck Ledges goes back thousands of years, to when glaciers, as they retreated and melted, scraped the earth, forming rocky outcroppings along the Maine coast. But the more recent history dates to the 1970s, when a man built a primitive dwelling on the island consisting of a wooden shack joined to a metal house trailer. For years, local fisherman used the trailer as a landmark to navigate.
The next owner was a high-school science teacher from Massachusetts named Gordon Estabrooks, who spent many summers on the island observing nature. In 2006, the senior Mr. Estabrooks put the island up for sale, asking Mr. Milliken, a local real estate agent and part-time fisherman, to handle the deal.
A woman came to see the island and wanted to buy it. But the woman's boyfriend was dressed in military fatigues, Mr. Milliken said, and when he took the couple out in his boat, the man emptied two duffel bags filled with guns. As Mr. Milliken recalled it, Mr. Estabrooks told him, "'Billy, I can't sell it to her. He's going to go out there and kill things. Why don't you buy it?"'
Several islands in Maine are owned by the Downeast Coastal Conservancy or Maine Coast Heritage Trust and are off limits to private development. But because there was already a structure present on Duck Ledges, the town of Addison, which has jurisdiction over the island, allowed Mr. Milliken and a business partner to tear down the shanty and build a 550-square-foot cabin.
Mr. Milliken had a dory and brought the material out in one load, landing in high tide because there was no dock. "We framed it up on weekends in the course of that first summer," he said. He and his partner saw Duck Ledges as an investment and sold the island to a man from Boothbay Harbor, Maine, who had fond memories of adventuring on an island as a kid with his friends. The new owner had an open-door policy.
"I spent more time out there when he bought it than when I had it," Mr. Milliken said. "I'd take people out several times a year, for free, and share it with them. I've had my family out there several times with lobster bakes."
Mr. Milliken came to see Duck Ledges as a special place to be shared with others and protected -- he stayed clear of visiting before June, for instance, until after the seabirds that nest on the island had gone.
When Duck Ledges went up for sale again in 2019, Mr. Milliken bought it back. But he didn't use it as much as in years past, and when he bought another island in the area, where he planned to build a proper house with running water designed by an architect, he suddenly found himself with too many islands.
His condition that a buyer stay overnight on Duck Ledges was something he felt as a moral obligation. "Sometimes the island is challenging, sometimes it's encumbering," he said. "I wanted somebody to know that the rocks are slippery. That you have to time your travel. You have to be good with a boat. My primary objective was for the buyer to make a fully-formed decision."
Still, news of his unusual requirement piqued public interest, including from Stephen King who posted on Twitter, "There's a novel here, just waiting to be written."
Although Mr. Milliken had higher offers, he was impressed that Ms. Gale packed little more than a backpack for her stay, and thought she would approach the place with a spirit of generosity. "It was never about money," he said. "It was all about the good will and sharing."
Ms. Gale paid $ 339,000.
Go With the Tide
Three elements must come together to visit Duck Ledges: the wind, the weather and the tides.
If the winds are gusting at 30 knots, you don't go. If thick fog is blanketing the bay, you don't go. If it's low tide, you can go, but you'll be walking across 100 feet of slippery, seaweed-covered rocks because there's no dock. You never go in winter unless necessary.
Ideally, you visit in June, July or August on a sunny, "flat-ass calm day," as the locals call it, and preferably in a flat-bottomed boat that can land right up on one of the ledges.
One morning last month, Ms. Gale stood at the Jonesport marina, holding a cooler filled with food that she was bringing to the island. Ms. Gale does not own a boat -- a serious impediment for an island owner.
Instead, she has been relying primarily on two locals -- Harry and Laura Fish, a brother and sister who run a charter company called Coastal Cruises. They drop her off and pick her up when she calls them (the island has good cell service). Mr. Fish, who with his white beard and yellow raincoat resembled the Gorton's fisherman, stood waiting at the dock edge in his 19-foot Sundance.
It was not a perfect top 10 day. It was cold and raining, with a thin fog hanging over the bay. And the weather had been lousy, more or less, since Ms. Gale arrived in Jonesport, in April. This was her first full summer as the island's owner. She had rented a place in town and was visiting Duck Ledges frequently.
Ms. Fish said local reaction to Ms. Gale had been one of surprise. "A single woman bought the island? That little island? And she's going to stay out there?" she said, paraphrasing the chatter.
But Ms. Gale had given massages to many of the townspeople, including Ms. Fish, and had otherwise proved herself intrepid among the locals. Her longest stay alone on the island has been four consecutive nights; she routinely stays overnight. And she was unfazed by the current storm as Mr. Fish motored slowly and expertly across the bay.
As the salt spray and rain hit Ms. Gale in her face and her blue rain coat, she put on a cheery smile and pointed out the colorful lobster buoys floating everywhere in the water, likening them to confetti. As the boat passed Hardwood Island, a larger privately-owned island covered with spruce trees, Ms. Gale said that she had been extended an invitation by its owner, along with owners of other islands in Maine, now that she belongs to an uncommon club.
"Everyone said, 'We want to come to your island, and we want you to come to ours," said Ms. Gale, who has long auburn hair, a full face and an outgoing, talkative personality. (She declined to give her age.)
After a few minutes more, Duck Ledges and its tiny cabin came into view on the horizon. Mr. Fish instructed Ms. Gale to drape a rubber mat over the front of his boat, a homemade contraption to keep the rocks from scraping it.
It was mid-tide. Ms. Gale hopped over the side and onto a large rock, then gingerly walked to higher ground with the cooler.
On a clear day, you can see the shore from Duck Ledges. But Ms. Gale's little island is not sheltered behind another island; it's exposed to the elements, and when Mr. Fish motored away, there was a sense of being at the mercy of nature. If bad weather struck, a day trip could well turn into three days before a boat could return.
"Don't let it fool you that you see civilization to the west and east," Mr. Milliken had said. "Look to the south to that wild openness that's going to be upon you."
'Random Bizarreness' and 'Part of the Vastness'
The money Ms. Gale paid for the island might well have been spent on a year-round residence, she said. She has little connection to Maine, beyond a few high school summers spent at the family house of a friend in Kennebunkport and some summer vacations to Southern Maine as an adult.
Standing on the island, there was a sense that Ms. Gale was still coming to terms with her impractical, even rash, decision, and figuring out what to do with the island now that it was hers.
"I was in one of those places," she said "Just randomness. It was random bizarreness."
She went on, "It's devastating to lose your business and have to sell your home. But I thought, 'It's new beginnings, new chapters.' I saw the island and thought, 'What's the chance to own a little gem like this?"'
Ms. Gale, who embraces the healing properties of Solfeggio frequencies and other new age beliefs, had already determined that her island has magical properties. She believes the minerals in the salt water can nourish the skin and has been taking bottles of it back to shore. Far from feeling vulnerable, she feels protected on the island, which she calls by its other name Wohoa Bay Island, because that's how it appeared in the listing, she said, and because she wanted to highlight the water, rather than the ducks or seals that sunbathe on the ledges.
"What you feel here is the gentleness of the grace of nature," she said. "Instead of feeling small in this vastness, being on the island makes you feel that you are part of the vastness."
Nevertheless, Ms. Gale has a gas-powered Yeti generator and a backup generator, plenty of food and fresh water in case she's stuck for a few days -- remember there is no running water -- and the comfort of a sturdily-built cabin that has survived many storms.
She has decorated with a couch, a table, a vintage-style metal cooler and framed art; and the interior, with its simple décor and windows on all sides looking out on the water, has the coziness of a ship's cabin. There is a loft for sleeping. There is a composting toilet behind the cabin (there's no indoor plumbing, either).
Inside, Ms. Gale fired up a Camp Chef propane stove and boiled a pot of water for tea. Then she cooked a lunch of pasta with fresh-caught lobster brought over in the cooler. The day had turned pleasant despite the weather.
Less successful has been Ms. Gale's attempts at establishing a garden. The bulbs she planted around the island all rotted -- too much moisture. She has lugged over some perennials in containers and placed them around the cabin instead.
Her most dramatic addition has been three antique cast-iron garden urns, each painted white and so heavy that a large boat and a crew of men had to be hired to get them onto the island. Ms. Gale had the Victorian-style urns placed at high points, including a rock at the tip of the island -- an unusual beacon for boaters.
"It is a far cry from driftwood and lobster buoys," laughed Ms. Fish of typical down east décor. "I've taken boatloads of flowers out there. Charlotte said she wants to recreate on this little island what she misses from her home."
"I wanted a little Versailles in there," Ms. Gale said.
Ms. Gale said she will return to New Jersey this winter. She recently signed a lease for a rental at the beach.
As for this summer, she plans to welcome family and friends to Duck Ledges. She is also hosting several people who contacted her after reading media stories about her purchase last summer.
Ms. Gale is charging these visitors around $ 250 per night, she said, and her creation of a website for the island -- along with the new name -- suggests an attempt at branding of sorts. She says she wants to market it for advertising and movie shoots. But Duck Ledges is unlikely to become an Airbnb or a popular shooting location -- it's simply too far afield and planning a trip there is too unpredictable, even for Ms. Gale.
"I have never found change scary. I have never found uncharted waters scary," Ms. Gale reflected, but added of this swerve in her life, "I think it surprised me, even."
Ms. Gale said she sometimes feels on the island like a child playing.
"That's who bought the island -- my child," she said. "Because as an adult it would have made no sense." Clockwise, from top left: Charlotte Gale on Duck Ledges Island, in Wohoa Bay off Down East Maine; her modest home; the cozy interior, like a ship's cabin; a view of a nearby island; her island features lichen-covered rocks, granite ledges, a small field of plants and a little sandy beach covered in periwinkle shells; for transportation, Ms. Gale, right, relies on Harry and Laura Fish, a brother and sister who run a local charter company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETA RYBUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE6.

Subject: Coasts

Location: United States--US; Maine

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/28/realestate/duck-ledges-remote-island-maine.html

Title: One Woman Finds an Island of Her Own:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843499832

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-woman-finds-island-her-own/docview/2843499832/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Recipe for Love? Add 'Water and Sunlight.': [Society Desk]

Author: Safronova, Valeriya

Publication info: Safronova, Valeriya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recipe-love-add-water-sunlight/docview/2843499812/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Before meeting Jennifer Ziegler, Rebecca Woodfork said she was always "looking down and getting through life." One month together in Boston and a trip to St. Lucia changed that.
Rebecca Ann Woodfork and Jennifer Kathryn Ziegler had been talking on the phone daily for about six weeks when Ms. Ziegler, who lived in New York City, suggested she visit Ms. Woodfork in Boston for her 40th birthday.
Ms. Ziegler booked an Airbnb apartment for a weekend in March 2021. But Ms. Woodfork had a feeling she would be visiting longer.
"She told me, 'I'd pack enough for four weeks,"' Ms. Ziegler said.
Not long before that, Ms. Woodfork's therapist had told her to write down the most important qualities she wanted in a wife. Generosity and kindness topped the list, as did a pride and confidence in being gay. After she and Ms. Ziegler began talking, Ms. Woodfork quickly realized that Ms. Ziegler, with whom she had matched on Tinder in February 2021, was "everything I ever wanted," she said.
When they met in person for the first time on March 20, Ms. Woodfork realized the depths of her feelings immediately. "I could have married her right there," she said.
They ordered sushi and spent the evening in conversation. "We barely ate anything," Ms. Ziegler said. "She was really easy to talk to. She was interesting, funny, super positive."
At the time, Ms. Woodfork, 42, was working as the head of the hair department on the set of "The Tender Bar," a film directed by George Clooney. She had moved to Boston from Swampscott, Mass., after high school to study at the Learning Institute of Beauty Sciences, which is now closed. In recent years, she has worked on hair for films like "Shooting Stars," "Knives Out" and "Judas and the Black Messiah."
Ms. Ziegler, 50, grew up in Tallmadge, Ohio, and is a technology sales manager for IBM. She has a bachelor's degree in business from Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, Ohio, and an M.B.A. from the Zicklin School of Business at Baruch College in New York.
In the end, Ms. Woodfork's prediction came true: Once her Airbnb ended, Ms. Ziegler remained in Boston -- in Ms. Wordfork's apartment to be exact -- for a month.
The pandemic had made both women realize they were comfortable by themselves, but wanted to find their person. "Everybody's baking bread together, and I was baking alone," Ms. Woodfork said.
Ms. Ziegler had decided to use the slowdown brought on by the pandemic to put more effort into dating. "A lesbian isn't just going to fall from the sky," she said.
They spent their month in Boston cultivating a bond during evenings and weekends together. Ms. Woodfork was impressed by how wholeheartedly Ms. Ziegler supported her through a personal struggle.
In May 2020, the stitches Ms. Woodfork had from a previous surgery started popping out. She had a cyst removed from her cheek in 2018. It turned out she was allergic to the sutures.
"It looked like I had skinned my face," Ms. Woodfork said. When she met Ms. Ziegler, Ms. Woodfork was still physically and mentally in the healing process. She said that working in a beauty-focused industry made it difficult for her to accept the scar that ran down part of her face, and she was working through insecurities around her appearance. She worried about how Ms. Ziegler would respond, but it turned out, she need not have.
"I was so surprised that someone was so prepared to love me so much during that process," she said.
In May 2021, Ms. Woodfork and Ms. Ziegler went on vacation for 10 days in St. Lucia. "We really just enjoyed listening to Ella Fitzgerald and being in the pool all day and cooking together," Ms. Woodfork said. "That's where we fell in love."
After the trip, Ms. Woodfork flew to New York with Ms. Ziegler. The couple, who are mixed race, were pleasantly surprised by the reactions they received in the streets of the city. "People would come up to us to say, 'You guys are beautiful,"' Ms. Woodfork said. "I felt like we were leading by example."
In New York, she prepared to leave for Atlanta for at least six months to work on a film. For nearly a decade, Ms. Woodfork had been methodically building her career in film and TV, jumping from one set and one city to another, where she would work 80 to 90 hours per week.
"Finding time for another person wasn't something I even thought about," she said.
But the trip to St. Lucia -- her first vacation in years -- made her realize that she needed a break from her profession so she could focus on her personal life. She backed out of the job, and spent the summer with Ms. Ziegler in Provincetown, Mass. "Early in the relationship you need water and sunlight," she said. "It was the best decision I made. I don't know if we would be here otherwise."
In early fall 2022, Ms. Woodfork and Ms. Ziegler decided they wanted to get married, so they designed their engagement rings: platinum with diamonds. Afterward, Ms. Woodfork took the rings and said to Ms. Ziegler, "You won't know when or how, but we'll get engaged."
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
On Dec. 11, Ms. Woodfork brought Ms. Ziegler to Central Park.
As they walked toward Bethesda Fountain, Ms. Ziegler heard "The Good Life" by Robin Thicke, one of the songs Ms. Woodfork had shared with her early on in their relationship, when they were getting to know each other. She saw dozens of people looking at something and wondered what was happening. Ms. Woodfork pushed her along.
Then, Ms. Ziegler said, "I saw an arch of flowers, petals on the floor." An event-planning team had arranged easels holding photos of the couple, as well as posters with lines from a poem Ms. Woodfork had written. "I started crying as I was seeing all the pictures and reading everything," Ms. Ziegler said. "When we got through to the end, she got on one knee and proposed."
Afterward, they celebrated with brunch at Robert, a restaurant in the Museum of Arts and Design on Columbus Circle that looks out onto New York City.
"She loves views and skylines," Ms. Woodfork said. "I was an ostrich before, looking down and getting through life. Views are something Jen brought back for me."
Ms. Ziegler and Ms. Woodfork, who now live in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, were legally married June 15 by Madeline Plasencia, a clerical associate at the New York City Clerk's Office. One month later, on July 15, they had a ceremony led by Libby Clark, Ms. Ziegler's best friend, and a celebration for 120 guests at the Lake Forest Country Club in Hudson, Ohio, not far from where Ms. Ziegler grew up. Ms. Woodfork first visited Ohio some years earlier, when she worked on "Judas and the Black Messiah." She fell in love with it.
Celebrating at the country club "was almost like being in someone's house," Ms. Woodfork said. "A very large, beautiful house."
The homey atmosphere was underscored by an eight-foot-long table that held 2,500 sweet treats prepared by Ms. Ziegler's family and friends. Ms. Ziegler's mother, Santina Pugliese Ziegler, who was born in the Calabria region of Italy, baked 1,500 of them over the course of three months, a combination of pizzelle, brownies, cannoli, amaretti and more. The brides made little bags filled with the desserts for guests to take home.
Ms. Ziegler wore a dress with an open back and a train, along with a veil with tiny pearls embroidered on it, and Ms. Woodfork wore a jumpsuit with two long tails in the back. "We felt beautiful," Ms. Ziegler said.
Ms. Woodfork described the wedding as a "melting pot." "We had my friends who are Black, her Italian family, our friends who are gay," she said.
Ms. Woodfork and Ms. Ziegler spent months working with an instructor on their choreographed first dance, which was a waltz with box steps, spins, dips and even a lift mixed in, set to the song "First Time" by Teeks. Once guests hit the dance floor, they partied to a smorgasbord of music genres that included songs from Prince, Sister Sledge, Beyoncé, TLC, Phil Collins and Stevie Wonder. "It was like an '80s or '90s prom," Ms. Woodfork said.
On This Day
When July 15, 2023
Where Lake Forest Country Club, Hudson, Ohio
V.I.P. Clients Ms. Woodfork styled both Ms. Ziegler's and Ms. Ziegler's mother's hair, an uncommon practice for a bride at her own wedding. Ms. Woodfork's friend Ashunta Sheriff, a professional makeup artist, did Ms. Woodfork's and Ms. Ziegler's makeup. "I felt like I should be on the cover of Essence," Ms. Woodfork said. "She really worked her magic."
Tarantella All the guests participated in an Italian folk dance called tarantella, where "people form a big circle, with lots of clapping and leg kicks," Ms. Ziegler said. "Even if you don't know it, everyone joins in and gets into it." At one point, Ms. Woodfork danced in the center of the circle. "She was a star," Ms. Ziegler said.
Something Blue Ms. Woodfork's maid-of-honor, Tia Gonzales, gifted the couple cloth napkins with the date of the wedding and their names embroidered on top. Unbeknown to Ms. Gonzales, the napkins had a scalloped-edge trim that looked exactly like the trim on the napkins that Ms. Ziegler's parents received at their wedding in 1966. "It was wild," Ms. Ziegler said.
Photograph Jennifer Ziegler, above left, wed Rebecca Woodfork about two years after a weekend trip to meet her Tinder match extended to a month. "I could have married her right there," Ms. Woodfork said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY B. FROHMAN IMAGING AND DESIGN) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Weddings; Hair; Country clubs; Pandemics

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US; Ohio; St Lucia

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/28/style/jennifer-ziegler-rebecca-woodfork-wedding.html

Title: A Recipe for Love? Add 'Water and Sunlight.':   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843499812

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recipe-love-add-water-sunlight/docview/2843499812/se-2?acc ountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Life and Death of American Cities: [Op-Ed]

Author: Gelinas, Nicole

Publication info: Gelinas, Nicole. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-death-american-cities/docview/2843499811/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Barely two months before his death in June, at 89, Richard Ravitch, the real-estate developer turned public servant, was doing the same thing he had done regularly for more than six decades: sitting at his desk in a Manhattan office and holding an in-person meeting about the future of his city. Much of Midtown was still empty, but Mr. Ravitch was not the type to work from home.
To get to my last meeting with him, I had to do what has become familiar in New York City over the past few years: walk through an empty lobby and go up an empty elevator. Until the end, even as a younger generation of business people viewed the full-time office as optional -- along with Manhattan itself -- Mr. Ravitch remained moored to a physical place.
Mr. Ravitch's office is now empty, too. His absence is a stark reminder that New York's post-Covid recovery needs new generations of people who are as physically anchored to a city as he was, and who understand that urban civics depends on people in business, finance, politics, policy and media just showing up, day after day, to make a little unglamorous progress.
New York is hardly alone in this need. Many American cities find themselves without patrons who feel their own worth and purpose tied to their hometowns' fortunes. Cities require successful people to have so much at stake -- literally -- in a particular place that they can't walk away. Mr. Ravitch's death was not just the end of an era in New York -- it also laid bare the vacuum that American cities have to fill.
Without Mr. Ravitch's steady presence, New York City would not have recovered and rebuilt from its 1970s malaise. As a developer, he built thousands of affordable apartments in the '70s, from Manhattan Plaza, west of Times Square, to the Bronx's River Park Towers. The middle class was leaving the city -- New York City lost nearly a million residents that decade -- and the housing Mr. Ravitch built helped New York retain an engaged, committed citizenry and work force.
Less than a decade later, as chairman of the state-run Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Mr. Ravitch saved the subways from decades of decay. In an era when both Democrats and Republicans were pushing tax cuts and privatization, Mr. Ravitch persuaded both parties in Albany and the moderate Democratic governor, Hugh Carey, to enact nearly a half-dozen new taxes to fund infrastructure. Though he believed in private enterprise, he knew that private enterprise depended on public works.
Rebuilt subways underpinned New York's subsequent growth. Annual ridership almost doubled in the nearly four decades before 2019. New York City could not have gained more than 1.5 million new residents and more than 1.3 million jobs over that time without the subways' capacity to move more people around more efficiently.
Mr. Ravitch was able to do these things -- and keep New York from suffering the permanent decline that many American cities faced -- in part because of personality: He was affable, he was stubborn, he was convincing.
But he could not have saved New York City through personality alone, just as one man in an office cannot create an office culture. What about New York's late-20th-century culture allowed Mr. Ravitch to succeed -- and what do cities need today for new Mr. Ravitches to flourish?
In 1975, when New York City nearly went bankrupt, and in 2020, Mr. Ravitch did not see New York City as an asset class, easily traded for a different asset class when times got tough.
Raised on the Upper West Side, and having spent his adulthood on the Upper East Side, he lived nearly his entire life in Manhattan, and never lost that intense connection to place. At the helm of his family development firm in the 1970s, Mr. Ravitch could have pivoted to suburban split levels or office parks. Real estate is real estate. But he could not conceive of abandoning his city.
Mr. Ravitch was not alone in this commitment. A few years later, during the Koch era, New York ignored the bloodless conventional wisdom of the time -- planned shrinkage -- and invested billions to rebuild the South Bronx.
Contrast that experience with what's happening in San Francisco right now. Whole Foods, owned by Amazon, opened an outlet downtown in 2022, only to abruptly close it a year later. Westfield, a longtime shopping-mall owner with roots in Australia, abandoned a mall in the same city, handing the property back to its lender.
Multinational corporations owned by global investors have their place in cities; brands bring quality and consistency to everything from drugstores to building management companies. But in a systemic crisis, such as the changes to urban commuting patterns brought on by Covid, dispersed global investors will not save cities.
If deterioration in public safety makes globally branded stores on Chicago's Magnificent Mile untenable, the stores' investors will cut their losses and redeploy their dollars elsewhere in the world. If a Portland, Ore., office building owned by a national asset manager is no longer a desired national asset, the manager will give the building back to the bank.
Transient owners must be balanced by a critical mass of business owners who see a specific city as home -- the only place they want to be. Without a strong local ownership base to support a city through a crisis, local property stops being a valuable global asset.
Successful cities also need moderately wealthy men and women -- the small-scale developers, the mid-tier of corporate executives -- who are motivated to engage in public service not because they want something like tax credits, but because they are fed up with their own quality of life.
Mr. Ravitch was wealthy, but his wealth was not so immense that it allowed him to separate himself from New York City's day-to-day annoyances. "I take the subway at least twice a day," Mr. Ravitch told reporters upon his 1979 appointment to the M.T.A. He saw for himself the conditions that were causing New Yorkers to leave.
As M.T.A. chair, Mr. Ravitch led people who were richer and more important than he was -- top executives of Bear Stearns, MetLife and AT&T -- on a 1981 tour of the subways because, he recalled in his memoir, "none of them, I suspected, had ridden a ... subway recently." One of the executives told The Times that he mostly knew of the subways' woes from "television."
That kind of distance between the superwealthy and the reality of the streets is evident in San Francisco, which won't get out of its current crisis of public disorder and population loss if it depends on the affluent tech community to stop erosion. One of Elon Musk's first acts as the owner of Twitter was to stop paying rent on the company's San Francisco office. Many tech employees find it easier to leave than to speak up about the city's problems and take action.
Robust urban culture also depends on influential people who don't fall for top-down, gimmicky solutions to complex problems. A decade ago, Uber, the global ride-hailing giant, swept down upon supposedly sophisticated cities and promised to relieve traffic through tech. "I want to talk about the future of human-driven transportation," the Uber co-founder Travis Kalanick glibly said in 2016, "about how we can cut congestion, pollution and parking by getting more people into fewer cars."
The reality was that Uber was not ride "sharing," as Kalanick insisted. Uber flooded Manhattan's streets with tens of thousands of new cars with one passenger each, bringing gridlock to the worst levels on record. Uber also destroyed the city's decades-old taxi regulation system, which had been created to control the number of vehicles on dense urban streets, forcing New York City to spend the past half-decade painstakingly rebuilding it.
It turned out that the future of human-driven urban transportation wasn't some global tech gimmick but the local subways instead. In 2017, New Yorkers' mass civic outrage over a "summer of hell" forced Andrew Cuomo, who was then the governor, to reinvest not in some new thing but in the old thing, underground transit.
Mr. Musk, another placeless individual, has a whole tunneling venture, the Boring Company, that is persuading cities such as Las Vegas to build multilevel underground car-tunnel networks -- that is, choosing car sprawl instead of mass transit and density.
The weaker a city's broader civic infrastructure, the more vulnerable that city is to the flimflam man. Sometimes, the flimflam man's proffered solution further weakens civic infrastructure. Consider Airbnb, another placeless global tech firm whose executives glibly promised over the past decade to help New Yorkers lower housing costs by enabling them to rent out their spare rooms to earn extra money. The broader reality is that Airbnb has helped increase housing costs by enabling the illegal conversion of tens of thousands of condos and rental apartments into long-term, unregulated hotel suites. Mr. Ravitch's pursuit of place-centered profit created housing for the middle class; global tech helps push the middle class further out of central cities, and erodes the voter base needed to discipline easily gulled elected officials.
The latest quick fix for New York is a Manhattan casino, with competing real-estate firms insisting that New York's core, with its copious commercial and entertainment offerings, can't recover without something it's never needed before, and something that has failed to revive downtowns from Detroit to New Orleans: transient gamblers.
In the 1980s, Mr. Ravitch was one of the few who saw through that era's quick-fix gimmick: Westway, a plan to fill in much of the Hudson River along Manhattan's West Side with toxic landfill in order to make room for a wide interstate highway beneath it and a centrally planned development above it.
David Rockefeller, the city's pre-eminent elite citizen, was an ardent supporter of this plan. Mr. Ravitch knew that it was folly. Manhattan didn't need more land; it needed to make better use of the land it had.
Mr. Rockefeller had money on his side, but Mr. Ravitch had something more important: political savvy. He helped kill Westway by appealing to the fiscal conservatism of the Reagan administration and telling its leaders that the federal money would be better spent on transit.
Successful cities also need business leaders and other civic-minded individuals who understand state and local politics. In the early 1980s, Mr. Ravitch persuaded Republicans to raise taxes for the subways not by direct virtue of his money but by drawing on the respect he had earned by doing the work to intimately understand the city. He knew what he was talking about, and they knew it.
From transit to policing, much of day-to-day American life happens at the state and local levels. But today's aspiring political stars of both parties see New York City and San Francisco just as places to raise and give national money.
As all politics becomes nationalized, the political compromises that Mr. Ravitch excelled at become harder. Mr. Ravitch was a Democrat, but he worked with Republicans, including the New York senator Al D'Amato and President Ronald Reagan, because he needed them to help the M.T.A.
Mr. Ravitch wasn't interested in the thrill of going on national TV to slam the Reagan administration for not caring about cities. Instead, he worked quietly with Mr. D'Amato to convince Mr. Reagan to devote a portion of the gas tax -- which Mr. Reagan increased -- to transit.
The center must hold not just in politics but also in policy. The apartments Mr. Ravitch built weren't for the very poor, nor were they built on a free-market basis to command maximum rents. Mr. Ravitch understood that public policy aimed at the broad middle class was sometimes necessary, even if it produced complaints from those above and below. He persuaded Republicans to enact taxes for the subways, yes, but he also annoyed Democrats by raising the transit fare, with the disproportionate burden falling on poorer riders. Today, advocates who focus on utopia -- free transit for all, a mass expansion of public housing -- may please one another on Twitter, but they get nowhere in practical results.
Successful cities also need strong volunteer and advocacy cultures. Mr. Ravitch gained political support for rebuilding subways not just from powerful executives, but also because of the presence of another critical transit leader: Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign.
Mr. Russianoff, a Brooklyn native and Harvard Law graduate, could have gone into corporate law and made millions from leveraged buyouts. Instead, beginning in 1978, for $ 8,300 a year, he built a small but formidable coalition of regular people who, through their cultivation of the press and political staffers, kept pressure on elected officials to improve fellow citizens' commutes.
Similarly, New York City could not have rebuilt the South Bronx if enough South Bronxites hadn't stayed and fought, when everyone else was leaving, to ensure that there was something to rebuild. The Bronx needed people like the neighborhood activist Hetty Fox, who, as families were fleeing, began a supervised "play street" for neighborhood children in order to persuade their parents to stay.
Just as effective political appointees such as Mr. Ravitch need support from communities, they need support from politicians. Gov. Carey, faced with Mr. Ravitch's call to enact new taxes and raise the subway fare, could have hounded him from his position. Instead, he quietly backed his chairman's unpopular ideas.
The closest recent example of such enlightened local leadership came from the former mayor Michael Bloomberg. Beginning in 2007, his transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, began building bike lanes, wider sidewalks and pedestrian plazas to make New York City's streets safer. That brought widespread press and political ridicule on Mr. Bloomberg, but he steadfastly backed her, and traffic deaths fell.
None of these elements of sturdy urban culture work on their own. Advocacy groups like Straphangers don't work unless locally focused, broadly distributed newspapers report on their news conferences. Enlightened real-estate developers won't get far advising City Hall if City Hall is entirely transactional. A policy appointee's carefully crafted tax package won't succeed unless an elected official embraces it.
Mr. Ravitch's death leaves a void. As he co-wrote last fall, "the city faces a bleak future of billions of dollars in lost commercial property tax revenues as companies downsize to meet the needs of employees who may prefer to work at home only a few days a week, or full time." At the time, New York City office occupancy was around 40 percent; it has since risen, only to about 50 to 60 percent.
New York and similar cities won't fully recover from Covid population and commuter losses unless it gets the basics right, including order and safety on the streets and reliable public transit. They must do so even as people and money are more mobile than ever, and thus more able to escape state and local tax hikes. As Mr. Ravitch wrote in 2021, "when people have the capacity to work remotely, relocating for tax reasons becomes more feasible. Policymakers should focus on the challenge of keeping capital in New York. There are clear needs for more government spending, and Washington is responding generously, but we can't recover here without renewed population growth and private investment."
But the lesson from his accomplishments and advice isn't that we need a new person just like Dick Ravitch. (Although if a city doesn't have a cohort of moderately wealthy, civically responsible leaders who walk the same streets as everyone else does, it's probably in trouble.)
The more acute question is: Does New York's precarious balance of locally minded wealthy individuals, civically aware property owners, competitive state and local politics and nimble, smart policy advocates still exist to steer the city toward bread-and-butter solutions -- fiscal soundness, decent transit, continuity of basic public services -- rather than quick fixes? Does that balance exist at all in cities from Portland to Chicago?
Nicole Gelinas is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and a contributing editor of City Journal. Her book on the modern history of New York City transportation will be published next fall.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page SR5.

Subject: Transportation planning; Private enterprise; Subways; Infrastructure; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Private enterprise Infrastructure

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/28/opinion/new-york-city-metro-ravitch.html

Title: The Life and Death of American Cities:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2843499811

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-death-american-cities/docview/2843499811/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Budgeting to Rein In Splurging After a Split: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Larson, Lauren

Publication info: Larson, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/budgeting-rein-splurging-after-split/docview/2843499802/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: We're likely to spend more after a relationship ends. So why don't we budget for it?
For a month after a breakup in early June, I wavered between empowered mania and "Wuthering Heights" anguish. If I'd had access to moors I would have roamed them nightly à la the book's brutish, tormented hero, Heathcliff, wild-haired and sporting a messy cravat, but I was in Austin, Texas, where there is nary a moor and it's too hot for roaming. So, as I had done after previous breakups, I dabbled in retail therapy.
Once, I spent $ 100 on a wooden gorilla. On another occasion, I bought a philodendron that has since taken over my home, "Jumanji"-style. (If your aim is to purge a lover's memory, I suggest a less invasive plant.)
After this most recent split, however, I left the sphere of retail therapy and waltzed on the plane of shopping addiction. Sadly, the one thing I deemed too expensive was talking to a therapist. Instead, I bought a ticket to Mexico to join my sister at a resort I couldn't afford. I signed up for a Chase Sapphire Reserve credit card, with its $ 550 annual fee and impressive travel benefits, reasoning that it would make more trips to Mexico possible.
I spent $ 165 on a deep-tissue massage and $ 130 on an annual subscription to MasterClass. I mined La Perla's sale items, which are still preposterously expensive. (You can put a price on a perfect décolletage, and it is $ 173.)
Having been DoorDash-sober for months after a New Year's resolution, I began ordering delivery again. My ex and I had cooked together often, and making dinner alone felt too depressing. Studying my credit card transactions at the end of the month, my hand over my mouth, I wished that I had made a budget.
Financial advisers often encourage us to have a rainy-day fund to cover small expenses that we haven't accounted for, such as unexpected bills or home repairs. But we are less inclined to budget for emotional incidentals, despite being likely to indulge in them whether we can afford to or not.
Scott Rick, a behavioral scientist at the University of Michigan, co-wrote a 2014 study that showed that engaging in retail therapy could reduce residual sadness by restoring a sense of control. His study even found that hypothetical, simulated purchases were soothing, which may validate those who unwind by building homes in The Sims.
"Shopping is all about choice," Dr. Rick said in an interview. "It's all about 'I want A and not B.' You're exerting some control over those simple outcomes of what you go home with."
He noted that choosing between pleasant options (such as summery coverlets, one of which I also bought after my breakup) is likely more curative than unpleasant ones, such as expensive home repairs.
"That helps to disrupt that negative cycle of thoughts, and sad feelings," he said. "You can become the captain of your own destiny again."
Amanda Clayman, a financial therapist in Los Angeles, said we have been encouraged to process our emotions through consumerism for our entire lives. As schoolchildren, for example, we settled our nerves about a new school year with back-to-school shopping.
"We have been so primed and taught to do that in all these ways," Ms. Clayman said. "It's more natural for us to turn to a consumer field of expression and processing than it is to say, 'Oh, I'm having a feeling -- let me plop my butt on the cushion and meditate on this for the next two weeks."'
She pointed out that Americans tended to imbue purchases with tremendous personal and cultural meaning. When others told me about their post-breakup splurges, which ranged from a needlepoint course to a $ 3,000 chair to first-class tickets to move two cats across the United States, I was impressed by how varied and personal they were. (Though the Dyson Airwrap, a $ 600 wand that both dries and styles hair, appears to be the standard scepter of those seeking to reinvent themselves; rugs, too, were described as transformative several times.)
One male friend, who invited several people to an Airbnb in Montana a few years ago, said that, in hindsight, he would characterize the vacation as a breakup splurge.
Lauren Fish, a 33-year-old consultant in Chicago, invested in boxing classes and gear that now sits unused in her closet. Jennifer Sinski, a 36-year-old publicist in Austin, bought a Peloton and a dachshund she named Honey. Julie Vadnal, a 38-year-old editor in New York, bought a $ 650 custom flip-sequin dress from the designer Batsheva Hay.
"I was so depressed, and she measured me for it there in person, and I felt so loved and taken care of," Ms. Vadnal recalled. "I have zero regrets, despite having only worn it once."
Ms. Clayman suggested that rather than trying to maintain total control over our behaviors and feeling guilty when we can't, we should give ourselves license -- within reason -- to follow our impulses. When I floated the idea of a breakup budget for those of us who struggle with the "within reason" addendum, Ms. Clayman was enthusiastic.
"In doing this kind of budgeting work, one of the things that I'm really insistent about is that we do allocate money -- as soon as we're above safety needs being met -- and if not money, time, for nurturing the self," she said.
It occurred to me that after a certain point in my breakup bacchanal, my spending had ceased to be therapeutic and had become merely a habit, as had other behaviors that bloomed from sadness, such as lying in bed for an hour after my alarm woke me up and listening to Billie Eilish exclusively. I suspected a budget might have served as a boundary not just for my retail therapy, but for my wallowing in general.
I was surprised, then, when Dr. Rick, who studies money in relationships, discouraged a breakup budget -- at least in the way I had conceived it, which would be a fund that I would contribute to over the duration of a relationship.
"When you have a backup plan, you try less hard at the thing you're doing," he said.
He clarified that he was not opposed to breakups or divorces, and that he agreed that some relationships should crumble. He would support a breakup fund, he said, "if it's something that you and your friends decide on when you're 18 and you're not actively in a long-term relationship, like, 'Oh, this is something we should do in the future if we ever have breakups.' I don't think it's good to do three months into a relationship."
I agreed that it might be a sign of trouble if someone began financing their breakup haircut one fiscal quarter into a new romance. There was something perversely optimistic, however, about creating a breakup fund before I had even begun a relationship. I had gathered, from long hours spent among the sages of Reddit in recent weeks, that being open to disappointment is a key component of moving on from a relationship.
In Qapital, a personal finance app that connects to your bank account and automatically deposits money into various "goals" whenever, for instance, you shop at Sephora, I set up a recurring weekly deposit of $ 5 into a breakup fund. I don't check the app often, so I hope to forget about it until a post-breakup Glossier splurge reminds me that there is a piggy bank to be smashed.
My month of excesses, particularly a bowl of ceviche I ate on a beach in Mexico next to one of my loved ones, really did make me feel better about my breakup. At least, I spent so much money preparing my mind and body to sidle back into dating that I felt committed to doing so.
But I could have done without the guilt and the months of asceticism that it will take to stabilize my finances. Next time -- but hopefully there won't be a next time -- I'll be better prepared.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU7.

Subject: Shopping; Therapy; Budgets

Business indexing term: Subject: Budgets

Location: Mexico

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/29/business/retail-therapy-breakup-budget.html

Title: Budgeting to Rein In Splurging After a Split:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Comp any

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843499802

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/budgeting-rein-splurging-after-split/docview/2843499802/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hotel Operators Make a Bet on Longer Stays: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: White, Martha C

Publication info: White, Martha C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hotel-operators-make-bet-on-longer-stays/docview/2843296427/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Extended-stay hotels, which are cheaper to build and operate than their full-service counterparts, are also appealing to work crews on road, green energy and other infrastructure projects.
As a road warrior for 35 years, Tanna Pearman has crisscrossed the country, staying at luxury hotels and roadside motels. Her least favorite are boxy convention hotels with cavernous lobbies that are easy to get lost in. But at the top of her list is extended-stay lodging.
With guest rooms big enough for both working and unwinding, extended-stay hotels make it easy to combine business calls and sightseeing tours, said Ms. Pearman, a broker for Meetings Made Easy, a meeting planning company based in Las Vegas.
"It feels more like a living space than just a sleeping room," she said.
Ms. Pearman has plenty of company these days. Interest in extended-stay hotels has grown, driven in part by a rise in remote work as well as an increase in work crews moving from site to site for infrastructure investments in projects like road building and green energy.
And because visitors tend to stay longer and need less housekeeping, extended-stay hotels -- particularly those focused on more cost-conscious travelers -- are less expensive to build and operate than their full-service counterparts. Recognizing the higher margins these side-of-the-highway lodgings offer, hotel companies are looking at them with fresh eyes, expanding their portfolios and adding new brands.
Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt Hotels and Marriott International have all introduced extended-stay brands this year -- some so new that they do not yet have official names. Last year, Best Western International and Wyndham Hotels & Resorts announced new brands in the category, following Choice Hotels, which started a new extended-stay chain in 2020.
"It's as hot as it can get," said Jan Freitag, national director of hospitality market analytics at the real estate analytics firm CoStar.
Economical construction is a top priority for hotel operators. "It's superefficient the way the design is built," said Isaac Lake, brand leader of Project H3 by Hilton, the working name of the company's new extended-stay hotels that are scheduled to start opening in the second half of next year.
For example, he said, Project H3 rooms are designed so the bathrooms require only a single fire sprinkler, light fixtures can be plugged in behind the bed to minimize the number of electrical lines and a single type of vinyl floor tile is used rather than multiple flooring surfaces.
Absent palatial lobbies, full-service restaurants and other large public spaces, much more of an extended-stay property's footprint has the potential to generate revenue, despite the larger rooms. Longer stays also make them much less expensive to operate: Weekly rather than daily housekeeping is the norm, and having fewer daily check-ins and checkouts reduces the number of front desk employees needed.
Labor costs at full-service hotels were roughly 24 percent higher in 2022 than the year before, while costs at extended-stay hotels rose just under 12 percent, according to a study by Actabl, a maker of hotel management software.
"It's predominantly housekeeping -- that's where a lot of your labor ends up being," said Jim Chu, chief growth officer at Hyatt, which announced plans this year for a brand called Hyatt Studios. The company expects the first of what it says will be more than 100 of these hotels to open next year, he said.
A shift in how people work is a big factor underpinning the trend, said Siye Desta, an equity analyst at CFRA Research. Laptop-toting workers who can do their jobs anywhere are driving an increase in hybrid business-leisure trips.
Hotel executives are moving quickly to take advantage of the shift to remote work. "The dislocation from offices is allowing people to work from other places," said Noah Silverman, Marriott's global development officer for the United States and Canada. "That's a broader dynamic that's driving incremental business to extended-stay hotels."
Marriott announced in June that it was developing a new extended-stay brand with the working name Project MidX Studios. Company officials said they were expecting to start booking guests at the first properties by late 2024 or early 2025.
The extended-stay hotels may also appeal to leisure travelers looking for cheaper accommodations, Mr. Desta said. Inflation is cooling, but many Americans are still adjusting to higher prices for airfares and restaurant meals. They are hunting for ways to economize, whether that means tacking vacation days onto a business trip or eating in their hotel room. (Extended-stay hotels typically have kitchens with full-size refrigerators and range tops.)
Paul Hensley said he travels nearly every week from his home in the Nashville area for his job at an e-commerce manufacturer. Hotel rooms with kitchens not only save him money, he said, they are a boon for his waistline.
"I prefer to eat a little healthier on the road," said Mr. Hensley, 57. "The fact that it's an entire kitchen -- especially in this economy -- you can buy food instead of eating out, so that can make a trip cheaper."
Home-sharing platforms like Airbnb and Vrbo also offer lodging with kitchens and room to spread out, but industry experts say they cater to a separate market.
"I think the Airbnb customer is really looking for unique experiences," said Mit Shah, chief executive of Noble Investment Group, a real estate investment management company specializing in the travel and hospitality sectors.
But customers who choose home-sharing can be stuck with unexpected costs like high cleaning fees or a property that is not as advertised. Hotel companies try to prevent this by imposing brand standards, Mr. Shah said.
"It brings a consistent hospitality standard of quality," he said, which can reassure travelers. "They know what they're going to get," he added.
Despite the wave of brand announcements, hotel investors expressed confidence that the market will not become saturated anytime soon.
"The fact that there are potential new entrants to this space just speaks to the fact that this is a good fundamental business and a compelling segment," said Nadeem Meghji, head of real estate for the Americas at the private equity firm Blackstone.
Blackstone teamed up with Starwood Capital to buy the hotel operator Extended Stay America for about $ 6 billion in 2021, a bet on a postpandemic rebound in travel. Last year, the two investment groups made another investment in this hotel category, buying 111 WoodSpring Suites properties for about $ 1.5 billion.
But growth is expected not just from a return to travel norms. Industry experts suggest that the impact of investment in roads, bridges, manufacturing and green energy could drive extended-stay occupancy for years.
"There are some secular tailwinds like the U.S. government spending on infrastructure," said Mr. Desta, the CFRA analyst. "That is also expected to help long-term demand for extended stays."
In the last two years, Congress has passed the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, the Inflation Reduction Act and the CHIPS and Science Act, legislation meant to bolster the economy, and hotel executives predict that those laws will help fill extended-stay rooms around the country with work crews for weeks or even months at a time.
"Over half of the newly negotiated corporate business accounts our team has signed over the last 12 months have been infrastructure-related," said Geoff Ballotti, president and chief executive of Wyndham. The hotel operator announced its ECHO Suites brand last year and says the first properties are on schedule to open by the end of the year.
"This will be years of construction with contractor workers needing rooms, and that's really been what's driving the demand," Mr. Ballotti said.
Photograph Tanna Pearman, right, travels extensively as part of her work as a broker for a meeting planning company. She says she prefers extended-stay lodging because it gives her the ability to combine business calls and sightseeing tours while traveling. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE KELTER DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Travel; Infrastructure; Alternative energy; Kitchens; Costs; Employment; Roads & highways; Executives; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Infrastructure Costs Employment Executives Hotels & motels

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/25/business/extended-stay-hotels.html

Title: Hotel Operators Make a Bet on Longer Stays:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 29, 2023

column: Square Feet

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843296427

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hotel-operators-make-bet-on-longer-stays/docview/2843296427/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Happiness For Beginners: [Review]

Author: Shaffer, Claire

Publication info: Shaffer, Claire. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/happiness-beginners/docview/2842746904/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ellie Kemper and Luke Grimes star in "Happiness for Beginners," an outdoorsy rom-com that's inoffensive to a fault.
In Happiness for Beginners," directed by Vicky Wight, the "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt" star Ellie Kemper portrays a divorced 30-something, Helen, on a journey of self-discovery and romance. Wight's second adaptation of a novel by Katherine Center (after the 2020 drama "The Lost Husband"), the movie trades in warm-and-fuzzy predictability, where the most uprooting event imaginable for Kemper's character is falling in love with her brother's best friend, Jake (Luke Grimes), on a group hiking excursion along the Appalachian Trail.
"Happiness for Beginners" is inoffensive to a fault. Its gestures toward comedy largely stem from the ragtag, Patagonia-vested team of hikers surrounding the two lovers. Guided by a zealous leader, Beckett (Ben Cook), the group falls into stock stereotypes -- an overconfident hunk, a self-deprecating gay man -- who act as a ho-hum Greek chorus to Helen and Jake's budding relationship. The movie is earnest when it wants to be, like when Jake recites poetry to Helen, but consistently backpedals to jokes about the hikers' ineptitude and getting freaky in the woods. It's as if the film is apologizing for its own tenderness.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Kemper and Grimes have enough chemistry to keep the plot afloat, when it doesn't feel like it's gingerly treading water. Rather than shooting for the fences in grand gestures or raunchy humor, as so many rom-coms do, "Happiness for Beginners" stays polite. It's destined to be thrown on in the background of a well-kept Airbnb after a long day of hiking in the Northeast.
Happiness for Beginners
Not rated. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes. Watch on Netflix.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Hiking; Happiness; Television programs; Streaming media

People: Kemper, Ellie

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/27/movies/happiness-for-beginners-review.html

Title: Happiness For Beginners:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 28, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Television Review

ProQuest document ID: 2842746904

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/happiness-beginners/docview/2842746904/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Salted Caramel Ice Cream Without the Churn: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Clark, Melissa

Publication info: Clark, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/salted-caramel-ice-cream-without-churn/docview/2838922748/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Whipped cream and store-bought dulce de leche are all you need for this frozen summer treat.
When you urgently need a frozen treat without leaving the house to get it, the most satisfying shortcut might be a cold and fluffy no-churn ice cream.
Made from sweetened condensed milk and whipped cream, it's almost absurdly minimalist and doesn't even require an ice cream machine. There's no fussing over curdle-prone egg yolks, because you don't have to cook a custard. Simply whip some cream, fold in the milk and a few flavorings -- a pinch of salt and some vanilla extract will do the trick -- then let it sit in the freezer until scoopable. It's the perfect hack for any hot day.
Recipe: No-Churn Salted Caramel Ice Cream
The reason this recipe works so well is because although there are only a few ingredients, each one does double duty. The cream's fat content lends a rich, tongue-coating texture, and the air you whip into it creates volume and buoyancy, allowing the ice cream to stay supple when frozen.
(If you or your Airbnb doesn't have an electric mixer for whipping, just grab a whisk, or a Mason jar for shaking. Your arms will get a mini workout.)
Then there's the condensed milk: Since the sugar in it is already a liquid, it doesn't need heat to dissolve. Viscous, syrupy and low-moisture, it also helps prevent ice crystals from forming, which makes for an especially smooth and velvety ice cream.
In this version I tweak the ingredients slightly, substituting store-bought dulce de leche for the condensed milk. The flavor is deeper and more complex, with toasty caramel notes replacing milky vanilla. Then I swirl more dulce de leche into the ice cream base for irresistibly sticky ripples of caramel throughout.
To punctuate the sweetness with a few crunchy, savory pops, add a pinch of flaky sea salt to the dulce de leche before swirling it into the ice cream base. And while you're at it, you can also mix in a few tablespoons of chopped nuts, shredded coconut or chocolate chunks or chips.
Once it's frozen, scoop this delightful ice cream into cones or mound it on a sundae or banana split. Then again, you could take the time-honored, lazy-summer approach and spoon it up, languidly and meltingly, right from the container and into your mouth.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDA XIAO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: HADAS SMIRNOFF.) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Milk; Ice cream; Recipes; Cooking

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/article/no-churn-salted-caramel-ice-cream-recipe.html

Title: Salted Caramel Ice Cream Without the Churn:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 19, 2023

column: Ood Appetite

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2838922748

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/salted-caramel-ice-cream-without-churn/docview/2838922748/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Don't Even Think About Checking A Bag: [Op-Ed]

Author: Mack, David

Publication info: Mack, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dont-even-think-about-checking-bag/docview/2834561863/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I'm terrible at packing. Laughably terrible. Concerningly so. On a recent trip to Las Vegas with my boyfriend (I'm gay) and both our mothers (again, we are extremely gay) to see Adele (you get the idea), we both packed so much that you'd be forgiven for thinking we were moving there. I doubt Adele packed more, even though she semirelocated there for several months.
My boyfriend is, somehow, even worse than I am. His philosophy when it comes to luggage is progressive: Leave no shirts behind, lest they feel excluded from our vacation. He doesn't want anyone at a hotel to see him in the same outfit twice.
With our traveling circus of luggage, we are hangers-on to an old way of life. Long gone are the days when you wouldn't think twice about checking a bag and waltzing onto a plane empty-handed, knowing it was someone else's problem. Today, there is intense pressure to pack light and travel exclusively with carry-on, leading to boarding processes so stressful they can feel like the wildebeest stampede from "The Lion King." We've been forced to become our own baggage handlers -- and we often have to pay for the privilege.
What other industry could get away with that?
None of us fully trust the airlines to get our bags to our destination. One 2013 survey found just 19 percent of passengers traveled exclusively carry-on; by last year, a separate survey had found that this carry-on-only group had climbed to 41 percent of travelers.
There's good reason for that skepticism. For the past two years, news stories have spread of luggage meltdowns leading to a mountain of missing bags, thanks to systems becoming overwhelmed by a surge of people traveling again after the worst of the pandemic (a practice termed by economists as revenge spending to refer to our compulsion to spend feverishly on, among other things, the vacations we dreamed about during lockdowns).
Things were so bad last year, The Guardian called it the "summer of lost luggage," and the stats back that up. After years of improved baggage arrival rates, a report in May by the aviation data company SITA found the rate of mishandled bags almost doubled globally from 2021 to 2022, to 7.6 bags per 1,000 passengers. International passengers had it especially bad with a rate of 19.3 mishandled bags per 1,000 travelers -- almost eight times the rate for domestic passengers. Alarmingly, SITA predicted that the industry won't return to "precrisis levels" until next year. There's no escape from the contradictions of capitalism. Just as decluttering experts want you to buy their books and storage solutions, the travel industry now has a whole bunch of stuff to sell you so you can travel with ... less stuff.
Entirely new technologies and markets have sprung up. Is it just me, or did packing cubes emerge seemingly from nowhere in the past decade? Somehow, our ancestors once voyaged across continents and oceans without these things, but now I seem to be given a new set each Christmas.
Of course, you also still need travel-size bottles of every liquid product you might ever imagine. (Don't worry, because companies exist to sell you mini travel versions of everything from toiletries to salad dressing.) And make sure to purchase some AirTags or even a set of smart luggage, so you can track your bags digitally as if you were in the National Security Agency.
Then there are the strategies. TikTok is full of them. Have you tried rolling your clothes before packing them? Or perhaps folding them, KonMari style? Or treating them as if you were playing Tetris? Or secretly filling a travel pillow with clothes? Or even stuffing everything you're traveling with into a fishing vest, wearing that on the plane and hoping others on board don't become suspicious and alert an air marshal?
I'm exhausted, and I haven't even started packing for my summer trip yet.
Gabby Beckford, 27, has amassed hundreds of thousands of social media followers posting under her brand, Packs Light -- a name she chose because it captured her zeal for flying with only carry-on baggage, as well as a deeper spiritual approach to travel that involves leaving behind things that might weigh her down.
Ms. Beckford's philosophy is simple: They sell underpants everywhere in the world, so why are you packing extras?
Having more clothing options, for Ms. Beckford, can actually feel limiting. Overpacking means overburdening yourself. When we spoke by phone, she was in London, bragging about how she'd been able to easily carry her luggage alone through the Underground and up three flights of stairs to her Airbnb.
My proclivity for overpacking, Ms. Beckford told me, comes from a place of pessimism and a "scarcity mentality," whereby I'm constantly imagining everything that could go wrong on a trip and trying to pack accordingly. That negativity can color a trip from the start.
Sure, plan ahead, research the climate at your destination and pick a few fun outfits you want to wear in your Instagram upload, she advised, but don't stress too much. It's a vacation, after all.
In one video she posted in May, Ms. Beckford urged any followers traveling to Europe this summer to leave half their suitcase empty and instead pack $ 350 in spending money so as to fully take advantage of the shopping opportunities there.
Now that's something any gay man can get behind. If I have to buy something, let it be a bunch of new outfits at my destination that bring me joy, even if I'll probably be stressed again one day as I worry how to bring them all on future trips.
David Mack (@davidmackau) is a writer and a former reporter for BuzzFeed News.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page SR12.

Subject: Luggage; Travel; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/08/opinion/carry-on-packing-airlines-lost-luggage.html

Title: Don't Even Think About Checking A Bag:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 9, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times C ompany

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2834561863

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dont-even-think-about-checking-bag/docview/2834561863/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

So You're Going on a Trip You Can't Afford: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Perhach, Paulette

Publication info: Perhach, Paulette. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/so-youre-going-on-trip-you-cant-afford/docview/2834561787/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Here are a few strategies to help keep travel costs under control.
Teodora Pirciu didn't order the wine she wanted at dinner, even though she was on vacation to enjoy herself. Instead, she had water. As she chewed her food, thoughts of her bank account gnawed at her mind. Ms. Pirciu knew she would insist on paying the check for her son and her new boyfriend. She just didn't know if her credit card would be declined.
At the time, nearly a decade ago, Ms. Pirciu was a 27-year-old single mother, barely covering the necessities with her job in politics and sporadic gig work as a D.J. She had already rushed in to pay for the hotel before her long-distance boyfriend -- a high earner who had no idea she was struggling financially -- could do so. He had paid for his flight and everything else, until that last dinner.
If her boyfriend had paid for the entire trip, "I would have felt inferior," Ms. Pirciu said. "For a very long time, I had this mentality issue, and I felt like I wasn't worthy because, you know, I can't afford this tiny thing -- a long weekend."
For many reasons, it can be too easy to get swept up in a vacation plan that only later -- once you're already on the beach trying to relax -- do you realize you can't afford. But with a few strategies, during the planning and while on the trip, you can avoid stretching yourself financially.
Ms. Pirciu, now 36, couldn't bring herself to confront the reality of her finances at the time. As a result, the vacation set her back financially for a few months. Eventually, she had to ask her boyfriend to borrow money for rent.
"I just wanted to prove to myself, to him, to my son that I could pay a three days' trip," Ms. Pirciu said. "And now that I'm thinking about it, it's stupid, it's so stupid. But the truth is, it meant a lot to me back then."
Before you go: Look the whole cost in the eye
Financial experts recommend you don't agree to take a trip until you are honest with yourself about what you can and cannot afford.
"It's still surprising how much of a factor your ego and your pride come into money decisions," said Chris Browning, host of the "Popcorn Finance" podcast. He believes it's part of the pressure we start to feel at a young age to do well in school, earn a good degree and land a high-paying job.
"Saying that you can't afford something is almost equal to saying 'I'm a failure' in a lot of people's minds," he said.
Mr. Browning recounted going on several trips that were out of his budget because he was optimistic about the expenses, making estimates that had him forgoing meals and eating just a few snacks a day.
"It's almost like I purposefully didn't do all the math on how much the trip was going to cost me," he said.
Some travelers conveniently leave out typical vacation expenses from their calculations -- like airport transportation, tolls and parking fees -- because they want to believe a trip will work out.
Mr. Browning suggests looking back at a vacation you took and examining bank statements to see how much you actually spent, and on what. Then set up a real budget for the next getaway before you leave.
Once you know what you're able to spend, be honest with your travel companions. People often make up flimsy excuses to get out of a trip they can't afford instead of telling the truth, Mr. Browning said. One problem with that is they could be argued out of the excuse.
If a friend wants to go deep-sea fishing, for example, and you say you have to watch your kids rather than admit your credit cards are maxed out, the friend may offer to have their teenager babysit. Problem solved. Only that was never the real problem.
"For me at least -- because this is something that I've dealt with, too -- the way I've gotten over it and started to work through it is by just being honest with people," Mr. Browning said.
Instead of white lies, try offering more affordable alternatives, suggested Oneika Raymond, a television host and travel writer. If your friends want to do a weekend in Las Vegas and you can't afford to stay at the MGM Grand, propose renting an Airbnb. The trick is to find options that cost less without significantly diminishing the experience, then offer them up to the group.
"I think that a lot of the stress comes from the unknown," Ms. Raymond said.
During the trip: When you realize you're in trouble
When Mr. Browning was on vacation in Hawaii in 2012 and was smacked with high food prices, he suggested some less expensive activities for the days ahead to offset the cost of meals. Traveling usually comes with its share of surprises (including surprise costs), but it's often possible to adjust the expenses even as the trip is happening.
An app like Splitwise can help keep your costs down on a group trip. If you're sticking to water and skipping appetizers as the rest of your crew is slamming shots and ordering filet mignon, don't worry. The app does the work of tracking everyone's share (and removes the anxiety of splitting a hefty tab equally).
During the trip, account for how much you're spending daily. You may need to sit out specific activities, like a restaurant meal in favor of a grab-and-go lunch.
Another strategy is to think about what you can add to a trip, rather than what you can remove, to save money. Ms. Raymond recently went on vacation with a group of friends, one of whom was a professional nanny. Knowing the accommodations were a bit out of her financial reach, her friend offered to babysit the children one night so that the parents in the group could go out. In exchange, they covered the cost of her accommodations.
"It was win-win for everyone because the parents were able to go out and have a good time, and know that the kids were with somebody that we trusted and knew really well," Ms. Raymond said.
Consider offering to be the trip's chef, or the weekend's designated driver. You might not need to spend as much money if you can be creative and mine your talents.
Last resort: Consider backing out
Sometimes it's worth examining if you should just skip the trip altogether.
Start by weighing the importance of the vacation to your life against the detriment it could cause your finances. Pico Iyer, a travel writer and author of "The Half Known Life," made that calculation five days before a work trip to Iran in 2013 when the entire staff of the publication that had hired him was laid off, risking his assignment and financial backing. At the time, Mr. Iyer said, U.S. citizens going to Iran had to pay for a guide and luxury accommodations. On top of that, it looked as if a war between that country and the United States was imminent.
"I was in a quandary," Mr. Iyer said. "But finally I decided that it might never be easy to go to Iran, and a war would make it more difficult. And I'd been longing for this trip for 30 years. I had to take the leap and be prepared to shoulder the $ 8,000 myself if need be."
How can the rest of us apply this consideration to our own travel dilemmas, which more often involve not being able to afford attending a friend's bachelorette party or an aunt's 50th birthday cruise?
Lauren Bowling, a financial expert, said setting specific financial goals can help you assess whether a trip fits into your overall financial picture. "If there's an immediate goal you're working for, I think that helps make a decision," she said, citing, as an example, a plan to buy a home in the first quarter of next year.
She also suggests asking yourself whether staying home will really help you move the needle toward achieving your goals. If there isn't something specific you are trading the trip for, Ms. Bowling said, you may end up regretting opting out. If you decide not to go, however, she suggests sending along a small gift, such as flowers, which will cost a lot less than the full trip.
For Mr. Iyer, however, saying yes to a trip to a place you've never been, even if it means taking a financial risk, is worth more than going into credit card debt for, say, a new couch.
"A trip is much more likely, in my case, to transform me than anything material I would acquire at home," he said. "And so therefore it's worth the risk, because the beauty of a trip is I don't know who's going to come back from it. And the hope is I'll be someone quite different from the one who left home."
Photograph Very often, travelers don't realize they've taken on more expenses than they can handle until it's too late to turn back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU7.

Subject: Travel; Meals; Costs; Vacations

Business indexing term: Subject: Costs

Location: Iran; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/08/business/affordable-trip-vacation-budget.html

Title: So You're Going on a Trip You Can't Afford:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 9, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2834561787

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/so-youre-going-on-trip-you-cant-afford/docview/2834561787/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Defaced the Colosseum, Not Realizing It's Really Old: [Correction]

Author: Povoledo, Elisabetta

Publication info: Povoledo, Elisabetta. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-defaced-colosseum-not-realizing-really-old/docview/2833500391/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A man who etched his initials and those of his girlfriend in a wall of the nearly 2,000-year-old monument wrote a letter of apology, and his lawyer says he is hoping for a plea bargain.
A man seen on video last month using his keys to etch his love for his girlfriend on a wall in the Colosseum in Rome has written a letter of apology, saying he had no idea the nearly 2,000-year-old monument was so ancient.
"I admit with deepest embarrassment that it was only after what regrettably happened that I learned of the monument's antiquity," the man -- identified by his lawyer as Ivan Danailov Dimitrov, 27 -- wrote in a letter dated July 4 and addressed to the Rome prosecutor's office, the mayor of Rome and "the municipality of Rome."
Portions of the letter were first published on Wednesday in the Rome daily newspaper Il Messaggero.
In it, Mr. Dimitrov acknowledged the "seriousness of the deed I committed," and offered his "heartfelt and sincere apologies to Italians and the entire world for the damage done to a monument, which is, in fact, heritage of all humanity." Mr. Dimitrov offered to "sincerely and concretely" right his wrong and redeem himself.
The carving came to light last month after a fellow tourist in Rome filmed a man scratching "Ivan + Hayley 23/6/23" into a brick on a wall of the Colosseum. The video went viral, and "Ivan," whose identity was then not known, was widely rebuked for his devil-may-care attitude. Admonished -- with an expletive -- by the video-taker, Mr. Dimitrov carried on.
The brick that was defaced was actually part of a wall built during a mid-19th century restoration of the monument, which was inaugurated in the first century A.D. But that made little difference to Colosseum authorities who said that it didn't change the fact that the act was vandalism.
Mr. Dimitrov was eventually identified by Italian military police officers who crosschecked the two lovers' names with registered guests in Rome and found they had stayed in an Airbnb rental in the Cinecittà neighborhood. Roberto Martina, the police commander who oversaw the operation, said they tracked Mr. Dimitrov to England, where he and his girlfriend, who is not under investigation, live.
Italy is no stranger to unruly visitors leaving their mark. Three years ago, a spate of incidents prompted lawmakers to stiffen penalties for vandalizing Italy's venerable cultural heritage. And the country wants to impose even tougher laws on climate activists, who have vandalized cultural property to protest what they call government inaction on climate change.
"It should be said that when foreign tourists come to Italy, from anywhere, not any particular nationality, there's this idea that they've come to a country where everything is allowed, where they turn a blind eye, where it's 'that's how it goes,"' said Alexandro Maria Tirelli, Mr. Dimitrov's lawyer. But his client may get caught in the crackdown, risking between two and five years in prison and a fine up to 15,000 euros, about $ 16,300. Mr. Tirelli said he was hoping for a plea bargain that will allow his client to pay a fine but serve no jail time.
Mr. Dimitrov's apology, the lawyer said, was an attempt to make clear "that he had pulled what he thought was a harmless stunt."
Italian media on Wednesday pulled no punches. The letter of apology "defaced common sense," Il Messaggero declared. Dagospia, a popular online website, suggested the letter only made things worse (Did he think the Colosseum was a fast-food restaurant, it asked?). A news anchor on the lunchtime news program of RAI 1, the main state channel, said the fact that Mr. Dimitrov hadn't known that the monument was ancient "is really a somewhat unbelievable excuse."
A spokesman for the Rome's mayor office said that they had not received Mr. Dimitrov's letter. The Rome prosecutor's office declined to comment.
"I hope this apology will be accepted," Mr. Dimitrov wrote in the letter.
Photograph A tourist, now identified as Ivan Danailov Dimitrov, carving "Ivan + Hayley 23/6/23" on a wall at the Colosseum in Rome. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN LUTZ, VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Vandalism; Plea bargaining; Apologies; Military police; Cultural heritage

Location: Italy

Title: He Defaced the Colosseum, Not Realizing It's Really Old:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833500391

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-defaced-colosseum-not-realizing-really-old/docview/2833500391/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Risk From A.I. Isn't Just Existential: [Op-Ed]

Author: Morozov, Evgeny

Publication info: Morozov, Evgeny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/risk-i-isnt-just-existential/docview/2831912787/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In May, more than 350 technology executives, researchers and academics signed a statement warning of the existential dangers of artificial intelligence. "Mitigating the risk of extinction from A.I. should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war," the signatories warned.
This came on the heels of another high-profile letter, signed by the likes of Elon Musk and Steve Wozniak, a co-founder of Apple, calling for a six-month moratorium on the development of advanced A.I. systems.
Meanwhile, the Biden administration has urged responsible A.I. innovation, stating that "in order to seize the opportunities" it offers, we "must first manage its risks." In Congress, Senator Chuck Schumer called for "first of their kind" listening sessions on the potential and risks of A.I., a crash course of sorts from industry executives, academics, civil rights activists and other stakeholders.
The mounting anxiety about A.I. isn't because of the boring but reliable technologies that autocomplete our text messages or direct robot vacuums to dodge obstacles in our living rooms. It is the rise of artificial general intelligence, or A.G.I., that worries the experts.
A.G.I. doesn't exist yet, but some believe that the rapidly growing capabilities of OpenAI's ChatGPT suggest its emergence is near. Sam Altman, a co-founder of OpenAI, has described it as "systems that are generally smarter than humans." Building such systems remains a daunting -- some say impossible -- task. But the benefits appear truly tantalizing.
Imagine Roombas, no longer condemned to vacuuming the floors, that evolve into all-purpose robots, happy to brew morning coffee or fold laundry -- without ever being programmed to do these things.
Sounds appealing. But should these A.G.I. Roombas get too powerful, their mission to create a spotless utopia might get messy for their dust-spreading human masters. At least we've had a good run.
Discussions of A.G.I. are rife with such apocalyptic scenarios. Yet a nascent A.G.I. lobby of academics, investors and entrepreneurs counter that, once made safe, A.G.I. would be a boon to civilization. Mr. Altman, the face of this campaign, embarked on a global tour to charm lawmakers. Earlier this year he wrote that A.G.I. might even turbocharge the economy, boost scientific knowledge and "elevate humanity by increasing abundance."
This is why, for all the hand-wringing, so many smart people in the tech industry are toiling to build this controversial technology: not using it to save the world seems immoral.
They are beholden to an ideology that views this new technology as inevitable and, in a safe version, as universally beneficial. Its proponents can think of no better alternatives for fixing humanity and expanding its intelligence.
But this ideology -- call it A.G.I.-ism -- is mistaken. The real risks of A.G.I. are political and won't be fixed by taming rebellious robots. The safest of A.G.I.s would not deliver the progressive panacea promised by its lobby. And in presenting its emergence as all but inevitable, A.G.I.-ism distracts from finding better ways to augment intelligence.
Unbeknown to its proponents, A.G.I.-ism is just a bastard child of a much grander ideology, one preaching that, as Margaret Thatcher memorably put it, there is no alternative, not to the market.
Rather than breaking capitalism, as Mr. Altman has hinted it could do, A.G.I. -- or at least the rush to build it -- is more likely to create a powerful (and much hipper) ally for capitalism's most destructive creed: neoliberalism.
Fascinated with privatization, competition and free trade, the architects of neoliberalism wanted to dynamize and transform a stagnant and labor-friendly economy through markets and deregulation.
Some of these transformations worked, but they came at an immense cost. Over the years, neoliberalism drew many, many critics, who blamed it for the Great Recession and financial crisis, Trumpism, Brexit and much else.
It is not surprising, then, that the Biden administration has distanced itself from the ideology, acknowledging that markets sometimes get it wrong. Foundations, think tanks and academics have even dared to imagine a post-neoliberal future.
Yet neoliberalism is far from dead. Worse, it has found an ally in A.G.I.-ism, which stands to reinforce and replicate its main biases: that private actors outperform public ones (the market bias), that adapting to reality beats transforming it (the adaptation bias) and that efficiency trumps social concerns (the efficiency bias).
These biases turn the alluring promise behind A.G.I. on its head: Instead of saving the world, the quest to build it will make things only worse. Here is how.
A.G.I. will never overcome the market's demands for profit.
Remember when Uber, with its cheap rates, was courting cities to serve as their public transportation systems?
It all began nicely, with Uber promising implausibly cheap rides, courtesy of a future with self-driving cars and minimal labor costs. Deep-pocketed investors loved this vision, even absorbing Uber's multibillion-dollar losses.
But when reality descended, the self-driving cars were still a pipe dream. The investors demanded returns and Uber was forced to raise prices. Users that relied on it to replace public buses and trains were left on the sidewalk.
The neoliberal instinct behind Uber's business model is that the private sector can do better than the public sector -- the market bias.
It's not just cities and public transit. Hospitals, police departments and even the Pentagon increasingly rely on Silicon Valley to accomplish their missions.
With A.G.I., this reliance will only deepen, not least because A.G.I. is unbounded in its scope and ambition. No administrative or government services would be immune to its promise of disruption.
Moreover, A.G.I. doesn't even have to exist to lure them in. This, at any rate, is the lesson of Theranos, a start-up that promised to "solve" health care through a revolutionary blood-testing technology and a former darling of America's elites. Its victims are real, even if its technology never was.
After so many Uber- and Theranos-like traumas, we already know what to expect of an A.G.I. rollout. It will consist of two phases. First, the charm offensive of heavily subsidized services. Then the ugly retrenchment, with the overdependent users and agencies shouldering the costs of making them profitable.
As always, Silicon Valley mavens play down the market's role. In a recent essay titled "Why A.I. Will Save the World," Marc Andreessen, a prominent tech investor, even proclaims that A.I. "is owned by people and controlled by people, like any other technology."
Only a venture capitalist can traffic in such exquisite euphemisms. Most modern technologies are owned by corporations. And they -- not the mythical "people" -- will be the ones that will monetize saving the world.
And are they really saving it? The record, so far, is poor. Companies like Airbnb and TaskRabbit were welcomed as saviors for the beleaguered middle class; Tesla's electric cars were seen as a remedy to a warming planet. Soylent, the meal-replacement shake, embarked on a mission to "solve" global hunger, while Facebook vowed to "solve" connectivity issues in the Global South. None of these companies saved the world.
A decade ago, I called this solutionism, but "digital neoliberalism" would be just as fitting. This worldview reframes social problems in light of for-profit technological solutions. As a result, concerns that belong in the public domain are reimagined as entrepreneurial opportunities in the marketplace.
A.G.I.-ism has rekindled this solutionist fervor. Last year, Mr. Altman stated that "A.G.I. is probably necessary for humanity to survive" because "our problems seem too big" for us to "solve without better tools." He's recently asserted that A.G.I. will be a catalyst for human flourishing.
But companies need profits, and such benevolence, especially from unprofitable firms burning investors' billions, is uncommon. OpenAI, having accepted billions from Microsoft, has contemplated raising another $ 100 billion to build A.G.I. Those investments will need to be earned back -- against the service's staggering invisible costs. (One estimate from February put the expense of operating ChatGPT at $ 700,000 per day.)
Thus, the ugly retrenchment phase, with aggressive price hikes to make an A.G.I. service profitable, might arrive before "abundance" and "flourishing." But how many public institutions would mistake fickle markets for affordable technologies and become dependent on OpenAI's expensive offerings by then?
And if you dislike your town outsourcing public transportation to a fragile start-up, would you want it farming out welfare services, waste management and public safety to the possibly even more volatile A.G.I. firms?
A.G.I. will dull the pain of our thorniest problems without fixing them.
Neoliberalism has a knack for mobilizing technology to make society's miseries bearable. I recall an innovative tech venture from 2017 that promised to improve commuters' use of a Chicago subway line. It offered rewards to discourage metro riders from traveling at peak times. Its creators leveraged technology to influence the demand side (the riders), seeing structural changes to the supply side (like raising public transport funding) as too difficult. Tech would help make Chicagoans adapt to the city's deteriorating infrastructure rather than fixing it in order to meet the public's needs.
This is the adaptation bias -- the aspiration that, with a technological wand, we can become desensitized to our plight. It's the product of neoliberalism's relentless cheerleading for self-reliance and resilience.
The message is clear: gear up, enhance your human capital and chart your course like a start-up. And A.G.I.-ism echoes this tune. Bill Gates has trumpeted that A.I. can "help people everywhere improve their lives."
The solutionist feast is only getting started: Whether it's fighting the next pandemic, the loneliness epidemic or inflation, A.I. is already pitched as an all-purpose hammer for many real and imaginary nails. However, the decade lost to the solutionist folly reveals the limits of such technological fixes.
To be sure, Silicon Valley's many apps -- to monitor our spending, calories and workout regimes -- are occasionally helpful. But they mostly ignore the underlying causes of poverty or obesity. And without tackling the causes, we remain stuck in the realm of adaptation, not transformation.
There's a difference between nudging us to follow our walking routines -- a solution that favors individual adaptation -- and understanding why our towns have no public spaces to walk on -- a prerequisite for a politics-friendly solution that favors collective and institutional transformation.
But A.G.I.-ism, like neoliberalism, sees public institutions as unimaginative and not particularly productive. They should just adapt to A.G.I., at least according to Mr. Altman, who recently said he was nervous about "the speed with which our institutions can adapt" -- part of the reason, he added, "of why we want to start deploying these systems really early, while they're really weak, so that people have as much time as possible to do this."
But should institutions only adapt? Can't they develop their own transformative agendas for improving humanity's intelligence? Or do we use institutions only to mitigate the risks of Silicon Valley's own technologies?
A.G.I. undermines civic virtues and amplifies trends we already dislike.
A common criticism of neoliberalism is that it has flattened our political life, rearranging it around efficiency. "The Problem of Social Cost," a 1960 article that has become a classic of the neoliberal canon, preaches that a polluting factory and its victims should not bother bringing their disputes to court. Such fights are inefficient -- who needs justice, anyway? -- and stand in the way of market activity. Instead, the parties should privately bargain over compensation and get on with their business.
This fixation on efficiency is how we arrived at "solving" climate change by letting the worst offenders continue as before. The way to avoid the shackles of regulation is to devise a scheme -- in this case, taxing carbon -- that lets polluters buy credits to match the extra carbon they emit.
This culture of efficiency, in which markets measure the worth of things and substitute for justice, inevitably corrodes civic virtues.
And the problems this creates are visible everywhere. Academics fret that, under neoliberalism, research and teaching have become commodities. Doctors lament that hospitals prioritize more profitable services such as elective surgery over emergency care. Journalists hate that the worth of their articles is measured in eyeballs.
Now imagine unleashing A.G.I. on these esteemed institutions -- the university, the hospital, the newspaper -- with the noble mission of "fixing" them. Their implicit civic missions would remain invisible to A.G.I., for those missions are rarely quantified even in their annual reports -- the sort of materials that go into training the models behind A.G.I.
After all, who likes to boast that his class on Renaissance history got only a handful of students? Or that her article on corruption in some faraway land got only a dozen page views? Inefficient and unprofitable, such outliers miraculously survive even in the current system. The rest of the institution quietly subsidizes them, prioritizing values other than profit-driven "efficiency."
Will this still be the case in the A.G.I. utopia? Or will fixing our institutions through A.G.I. be like handing them over to ruthless consultants? They, too, offer data-bolstered "solutions" for maximizing efficiency. But these solutions often fail to grasp the messy interplay of values, missions and traditions at the heart of institutions -- an interplay that is rarely visible if you only scratch their data surface.
In fact, the remarkable performance of ChatGPT-like services is, by design, a refusal to grasp reality at a deeper level, beyond the data's surface. So whereas earlier A.I. systems relied on explicit rules and required someone like Newton to theorize gravity -- to ask how and why apples fall -- newer systems like A.G.I. simply learn to predict gravity's effects by observing millions of apples fall to the ground.
However, if all that A.G.I. sees are cash-strapped institutions fighting for survival, it may never infer their true ethos. Good luck discerning the meaning of the Hippocratic oath by observing hospitals that have been turned into profit centers.
Margaret Thatcher's other famous neoliberal dictum was that "there is no such thing as society."
The A.G.I. lobby unwittingly shares this grim view. For them, the kind of intelligence worth replicating is a function of what happens in individuals' heads rather than in society at large.
But human intelligence is as much a product of policies and institutions as it is of genes and individual aptitudes. It's easier to be smart on a fellowship in the Library of Congress than while working several jobs in a place without a bookstore or even decent Wi-Fi.
It doesn't seem all that controversial to suggest that more scholarships and public libraries will do wonders for boosting human intelligence. But for the solutionist crowd in Silicon Valley, augmenting intelligence is primarily a technological problem -- hence the excitement about A.G.I.
However, if A.G.I.-ism really is neoliberalism by other means, then we should be ready to see fewer -- not more -- intelligence-enabling institutions. After all, they are the remnants of that dreaded "society" that, for neoliberals, doesn't really exist. A.G.I.'s grand project of amplifying intelligence may end up shrinking it.
Because of such solutionist bias, even seemingly innovative policy ideas around A.G.I. fail to excite. Take the recent proposal for a "Manhattan Project for A.I. Safety." This is premised on the false idea that there's no alternative to A.G.I.
But wouldn't our quest for augmenting intelligence be far more effective if the government funded a Manhattan Project for culture and education and the institutions that nurture them instead?
Without such efforts, the vast cultural resources of our existing public institutions risk becoming mere training data sets for A.G.I. start-ups, reinforcing the falsehood that society doesn't exist.
Depending on how (and if) the robot rebellion unfolds, A.G.I. may or may not prove an existential threat. But with its antisocial bent and its neoliberal biases, A.G.I.-ism already is: We don't need to wait for the magic Roombas to question its tenets.
Evgeny Morozov, the author of "To Save Everything, Click Here: The Folly of Technological Solutionism," is the founder and publisher of The Syllabus and the host of the podcast "The Santiago Boys."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page SR6, SR7.

Subject: Public transportation; Ideology; Costs; Startups; Autonomous vehicles; Profits; Adaptation; Capitalism; Neoliberalism; Intelligence; Bias

Business indexing term: Subject: Costs Startups Profits Capitalism

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Theranos Inc; NAICS: 339113; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/30/opinion/artificial-intelligence-danger.html

Title: The Risk From A.I. Isn't Just Existential:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 2, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2831912787

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/risk-i-isnt-just-existential/docview/2831912787/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Paris: [Travel Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/paris/docview/2831704775/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Key
Stops
The Gustave Moreau Museum is an under-the-radar house-museum that opens the doors to the studio of the 19th-century painter with a visionary flair for mythological subjects.
Madame Arthur has become the cancan-free cabaret of choice for many Parisians, and a symbol of France's thriving drag scene.
The Petit Palais, an underrated gem on the Paris museum circuit, takes visitors on a delightfully random tour of centuries of French art history.
The Parc de la Villette is a sprawling urban park with quirky playgrounds and a range of sports activities and cultural venues, like the Paris Philharmonic and the Cité des Sciences.
Where
to Eat
La Verrière, inside the 19th-century InterContinental Paris le Grand Hotel, is a luxurious cafe with plush armchairs under an arresting glass roof.
Le 975 is an elevated bistro offering smart twists on French cuisine in a quiet part of Montmartre.
Polissons serves imaginative dishes derived from traditional French gastronomy in Montmartre, with a six-course mystery menu.
Bistrot Mee brings visual flair to Korean cuisine in a Zen-like, elegant environment.
Aki Boulangerie offers a Japanese spin on French desserts, like yuzu- or matcha-flavored éclairs.
Une Glace à Paris is an award-winning ice-cream shop in the Marais district, with some left-field flavor combinations.
Pierre Hermé is synonymous with excellent high-end macarons and has many locations in Paris.
Bouillon Racine, a stylish Art Nouveau brasserie, serves well-made French classics like snails and blood sausages.
Ventrus is a portable, eco-friendly restaurant that currently brings guest chefs to the Parc de la Villette.
Jardin 21 is a casual open-air bar and restaurant that doubles as a vegetable garden and community space, open from May to September.
Where
to Stay
The Hôtel des Saints-Pères exudes old-world sophistication, and has a long history of welcoming artists to St.-Germain-des-Prés: The painter Francis Bacon was once a regular. Each room (from 220 euros, or $ 240) has personalized décor with paintings, drawings and sculptures. Guests in the Junior Suite Signature (from €400) sleep under a rediscovered 17th-century fresco that stretches across the ceiling.
Hôtel Mademoiselle is a cozy, stylish three-star hotel with a cute courtyard for breakfast, conveniently located within walking distance of Gare du Nord (Paris's Eurostar terminal, with good connections to the airports) as well as Montmartre. Rooms from €150.
With four central locations, the People is a budget-friendly option for travelers, with bright, welcoming lobbies, on-site restaurants and rooftop cafes in select hostels. Its flagship in the Marais will take you close to the historical city center. Dorm beds from €50, with private rooms also available.
Paris has stringent regulations to curb short-term rentals on websites like Airbnb, and landlords can only rent residential properties for a maximum of 120 days a year.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C9.

Subject: Museums

Location: Parc de la Villette

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/26/travel/01hours-paris-box.html

Title: Paris:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 1, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831704775

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/paris/docview/2831704775/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Road to New York Is Paved With One-Month Stays: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kamin, Debra

Publication info: Kamin, Debra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/road-new-york-is-paved-with-one-month-stays/docview/2829133965/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the last year, a woman from Australia has lived on the Lower East Side, in NoLIta, in Chelsea, and in Brooklyn. She finally has a place in Little Italy with roommates.
Natasha Pearce had visited New York City only once, for 10 days at the age of 24, before deciding she wanted to leave Australia and make the city her home.
She came as a tourist, renting an Upper East Side room on Airbnb, and immediately felt like the volume on life was turned up around her.
"All the things I would see in the movies growing up, I finally saw them in real life," said Ms. Pearce, now 30. "We went to Broadway shows and the Top of the Rock and the Statue of Liberty. We went to Times Square. Everything felt exciting."
Making the leap, however, would take time -- and multiple relocations.
She returned to Brisbane, but was starting to do reconnaissance on how a permanent 10,000-mile move would work.
"I messaged the girl whose room we rented, and I remember asking her, 'How did you move to New York? How much did it cost?' I got all the information I could from her, because I was so interested in hopefully living there one day," said Ms. Pearce.
When Australia sealed its borders during the pandemic, her yearning increased. By late 2021, with international travel again sanctioned, she had waited long enough.
"This is the time," she remembers telling herself.
Finding a place to land, however, would be harder than she anticipated. She arrived in May 2022 with two suitcases and some savings, staying in hotels while she scoured Facebook apartment-rental groups for a sublet that would accept a tenant with no work visa and no credit history in the United States. In June, she found one -- a $ 2,700-a-month room without a window in an apartment on the Lower East Side, and offered to pay $ 3,000 just to seal the deal.
"I was so desperate. It was a crazy time," she said.
She got the windowless sublet, but knew that if she didn't also get a job, she would have to leave the country when her 90-day tourist visa expired. So she focused on her job search, as well as studying for a graduate certificate in marketing and digital strategy, which she was earning online.
New York City, while still thrilling, felt more complicated this time around. Gun safety in the United States worried her, and the city seemed to be struggling more with homelessness and crime. After staying as a tourist on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, the contrasts on the Lower East Side were apparent.
"It's a little bit grungy," she acknowledged. "But it also has a lot of character and a lot going on."
By July, she had to leave the sublet, and she still hadn't found a job. She didn't want to return home, so she headed to Spain, a country where she had studied abroad and spoke the language, buying herself another 90 days on yet another tourist visa as she continued to search for New York jobs online. She almost gave up.
"I was getting to the point where I couldn't support myself financially if I didn't find a job, and I started looking for work both in New York and in Sydney," she said. But just as the three-month deadline was approaching in October, she was offered a position as a digital marketing coordinator in New York City, with offices in the Financial District.
$ 1,540 FOR A SHARE | LITTLE ITALY, MANHATTAN
Natasha Pearce, 30
Occupation: She is the digital marketing coordinator for The New York Academy of Sciences.
On taking the smallest room: "No one else really wanted it and someone had to take it," Ms. Pearce said. "It's a small bedroom with one small window and a little inlet closet with no door. But I was happy to save a little bit of money."
On the bright side of so many moves: "It was difficult and I felt unsettled. But the silver lining was that I got to experience living in so many New York neighborhoods."
Ms. Pearce was back in New York with her two suitcases by Thanksgiving.
This time around, finding a long-term place to land, however, would prove just as vexing.
From Spain, Ms. Pearce had found another one-month sublet, this time a sunny rented bedroom in a two-bedroom apartment in NoLIta. The price, at $ 2,100, was affordable for her, and while combing listings on Facebook, she noticed a trend.
Dozens of online posters had snapped up below-rate rental apartments during the pandemic and were now facing looming rent increases of 40 percent or more. They were scrambling to find new apartments that were more affordable, often ditching their old places before their leases expired.
"They were all desperate to find something, and if you find it earlier than your lease expires, you just take it, and find someone else to take over the last month before the rent goes up," she said.
She also looked at long-term options on StreetEasy, hoping to stay under $ 2,000 a month and within a short subway ride of her office. But landlords continually turned her away: Without references from past landlords in the United States, she couldn't compete in the crowded applicant pool.
"It was going to be really hard for me to sign a lease," she said.
Two weeks into her time in NoLIta, panic set in, and she switched gears and went back to combing Facebook for short-term sublets.
She found another renter who was vacating a studio in Chelsea ahead of a pending rent increase, and was relieved to get a short-term landing pad in a luxury building with a rooftop and gym for $ 2,200 a month. The landlord had warned he would soon increase rent to $ 4,000, so the tenant was vacating.
Her two suitcases were now overflowing with bedding, kitchen supplies, exercise equipment and knickknacks, and she was carting cardboard boxes around as well.
By February she was staying in an Airbnb and upset to realize she would have to sublet yet again. She called an Uber XL to help her lug her belongings and moved into a $ 1,600-a-month bedroom in a two-bedroom apartment in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, tucked so snugly underneath the Marcy Avenue stop on the Williamsburg Bridge overpass that she could hear the MTA's automated announcements whenever a train rumbled through.
"I told myself this would be the last short-term sublet," she said. "I had come so far I couldn't go back."
In March, she got a Facebook message from Alyssa Vitolo, 26, who works at a travel agency and whose lease was about to expire. Ms. Vitolo had already connected via Facebook with Mariel Jastrebsky, a food and beverage scientist who is also 26, and the two women had been searching for apartments. They'd found a three-bedroom for $ 4,900 a month in Little Italy, and they were seeking a third woman to join them.
Ms. Vitolo and Ms. Pearce connected on FaceTime for a 10-minute chat, and without meeting Ms. Jastrebsky, Ms. Pearce agreed to join their trio. The landlord didn't quibble with Ms. Pearce's fitness to sign, so before even seeing the apartment, she signed the lease.
"I had become more desperate as time went on, but I also had really good vibes about it," she said.
After evenly splitting the $ 9,800 cost for the security deposit and first month's rent, the three women visited the apartment, and Ms. Pearce chose the smallest room. She now pays $ 1,540 a month and her roommates each pay $ 1,680. The room snugly fits a full bed and dresser, and when she works from home, she heads to the kitchen table or a nearby cafe.
Furnishings were provided mostly by Ms. Vitolo and Ms. Jastrebsky, and Ms. Pearce contributed a secondhand television she bought for $ 150.
Despite finding each other under rental-market duress, the three women have become friends. When Ms. Pearce ran the Brooklyn half marathon in April, they went out in the rain to Coney Island to cheer her on.
"It's really nice to be settled in," Ms. Pearce said. "I moved my stuff around about 11 times in 11 months across three different countries. It's something I was working toward for a very long time."
Photograph Top, Natasha Pearce, right, and her roommates Alyssa Vitolo, left, and Mariel Jastrebsky, who found one another on Facebook. Above, Ms. Pearce's room snugly fits a dresser and full-size bed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE4.

Subject: Digital marketing; Women; Rents; Cost control; Apartments; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital marketing Cost control

Location: Italy; Australia; New York City New York; Spain; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/19/realestate/renters-little-italy-manhattan.html

Title: The Road to New York Is Paved With One-Month Stays:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 25, 2023

column: Renters

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829133965

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/road-new-york-is-paved-with-one-month-stays/docview/2829133965/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Hotel That Started as a Gift Shop: [Style Desk]

Author: Eblen, Shannon

Publication info: Eblen, Shannon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hotel-that-started-as-gift-shop/docview/2829133902/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shannon Maldonado quit her job in fashion design to open a home-goods store, Yowie. Now she's opening a Yowie hotel where nearly all the décor is for sale.
When she was growing up, Shannon Maldonado wanted to be a fashion designer.
After graduating from the Fashion Institute of Technology, Ms. Maldonado spent a decade on the design teams for several brands in New York, including Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren and American Eagle. But by her early 30s, Ms. Maldonado said, she had become uninspired by her career.
While traveling around the world for work, she liked hunting for unconventional souvenirs in hotel gift shops (her first purchase was a speckled ceramic pen holder in Japan). She started to wonder what it would be like to choose such items for shops at the Ace or Standard hotels.
In 2015, Ms. Maldonado, now 39, recalled thinking, "What if I start a modern gift shop?"
Soon after, she started a website, Yowie, that sold housewares, like ceramic cups and bowls. (When considering names for the website, yowie, an Australian word synonymous with yeti or Bigfoot, emerged as a favorite and stuck.) Ms. Maldonado soon quit her job at American Eagle to focus on the business. She moved to her native Philadelphia, where she hosted a series of Yowie pop-up shops before settling into a tiny store in the Queen Village neighborhood.
Recently, she moved the store again, to a much bigger space on the ground floor of a new Yowie hotel designed and co-owned by Ms. Maldonado. The hotel is set to open this summer in Philadelphia.
"My dream was to be connected to a hotel," she said. "I didn't know that would be my hotel."
Rooted in Retail
The 13-room Yowie hotel, which will also have a cafe, was originally two rowhouses on South Street near the Delaware River that have been combined. On a warm day in February, Ms. Maldonado stood in a sunlit corner room between two bay windows as she scrolled through her design plan for the unfinished space, pointing to where the custom side tables, colorful rugs and artwork would go.
Ms. Maldonado described her style as minimal but cozy, with an emphasis on color. The hotel's décor mixes furniture from BluDot, Hay and other brands with pieces from emerging makers, many of whom are local. It's a strategy that's also on display in the Yowie shop, where bold housewares from lines such as Dusen Dusen and Fredericks & Mae sit alongside handmade ceramic bowls and planters.
Naj Austin, who hired Ms. Maldonado to design a co-working space in Brooklyn (now closed), said her aesthetic is approachable and attainable. "It allows the person to want to bring that into their house, and it also feels possible," said Ms. Austin, the founder of Somewhere Good, a networking website.
At the Yowie hotel, bringing home items chosen by Ms. Maldonado will be possible: If guests are inspired to buy the mug in their room, or the table it rests on, they can buy the items from the Yowie store or directly from a maker through in-room catalogs identifying nearly all of the hotel's décor, including the fringed Llot Llov light fixtures and the Sherwin Williams "Denim" blue paint in the hallways.
Everett Abitbol, 42, a partner in the hotel, met Ms. Maldonado at a Yowie pop-up shop in 2017. He was passing by and spotted a ceramic Nike sneaker by the artist Brock DeBoer in the window. After buying three, Mr. Abitbol visited the Yowie website.
"What she was showing online just didn't exist at the time in Philly," he said.
Mr. Abitbol, a developer, later asked Ms. Maldonado to help decorate a property he had listed on Airbnb. After that, Mr. Abitbol and Bill Vessal, a contractor in Philadelphia, brought her into another project: the renovation of the city's historic First African Baptist Church into a hotel and event space called the Deacon.
Ms. Maldonado hadn't designed interiors for a space of that scale. But Mr. Abitbol said he could see that she had a vision for the project.
The Deacon opened in 2019. Ms. Maldonado kept some original details from the old church, including stained-glass windows and Gothic arches, which she trimmed in gold paint. She filled its eight bedrooms with modern furniture, books and plants, and designed a bathroom using black-and-white basket-weave tile and a halftone-printed wallpaper featuring Julius Erving, the former Philadelphia 76ers player better known as Dr. J.
In late 2020, after Ms. Maldonado, Mr. Vessal, Mr. Abitbol and his wife, Valerie Abitbol, had begun another project -- a boutique hotel in Rhode Island called the Dye House -- Mr. Abitbol and Ms. Maldonado were at the Yowie shop discussing what the team might do next. He said the answer was obvious to him: a Yowie hotel.
A Concept Catches On
The Yowie store had by then become something of a destination, after being covered by design websites, national magazines and local publications including Philadelphia Magazine.
Yowie received more attention in 2020, amid that year's Black Lives Matter protests. Ms. Maldonado, who is Black, put posters in its window expressing solidarity with protesters and wrote about the experience for House Beautiful. Afterward, the store was featured on lists of Black-owned businesses and its Instagram followers grew to include celebrities such as the actresses Julianne Moore and Alison Brie.
Olivia Kim, the senior vice president of creative merchandising at Nordstrom, also discovered Yowie through Instagram. After seeing the shop's posts in her feed, Ms. Kim sent Ms. Maldonado a DM. "I remember I kept hitting refresh, refresh, refresh," Ms. Kim said of waiting for Ms. Maldonado to reply. She did, and that conversation eventually led to Yowie pop-up shops at Nordstrom stores.
"I felt what Shannon was doing with Yowie was so reminiscent of how it was when we started Opening Ceremony," Ms. Kim said, referring to the fashion company where she used to work. "It feels inclusive. It feels multifaceted."
Heather Hanowitz, a vice president and senior loan officer at PIDC, a public-private economic development group in Philadelphia that provided funding for the Yowie hotel, met Ms. Maldonado in 2020. "We loved her story," Ms. Hanowitz said. "We loved that she was coming back to Philadelphia to reinvest in the community that she has grown up in."
"My team, when we were introduced to Shannon, really felt like we were working with a local celebrity," Ms. Hanowitz added.
As word of the Yowie hotel's location on South Street started to spread, some people were surprised its owners had chosen that area, Mr. Abitbol said. Last June, three people were killed in a mass shooting on the street, where shops and restaurants had already closed because of rising rents and pandemic lockdowns.
But since the 1970s, South Street has been the home to galleries, sneaker and streetwear stores, secondhand shops, restaurants, bars and many other local businesses. Ms. Maldonado, who grew up nearby, would hang out on the street as a teenager, grabbing cheese fries at Ishkabibble's, checking out the folk art at Eye's Gallery or visiting the punk boutique Zipperhead.
"It really was such a cool, quirky, vibrant corridor when I was a kid, and I loved coming down here," Ms. Maldonado said, adding that she is proud to bring Yowie to a street with a history of Black-owned businesses. Earlier this year, Ms. Maldonado joined the board of the South Street Headhouse District, a business improvement group, for which she is working on projects to pair entrepreneurs with vacant storefronts in the area and to make South Street more pedestrian friendly.
"Some people see problems," said Robert Perry, the owner of Tattooed Mom, a popular South Street bar. "She sees potential."
Inspirations Abound
To transform the rowhouses into the Yowie hotel, Ms. Maldonado had 1970s-era vinyl siding stripped from bay windows and cornices, Victorian details restored and the exterior painted a steel gray. Light fixtures in the same yellow color as the Yowie logo were installed to brighten up the facade at the suggestion of Mr. Vessal, who is also a partner in the hotel.
The cafe, Wim, is next to the Yowie store; a doorway connects the two spaces so people can go between them without entering the hotel.
The rooms, which start at between $ 229 and $ 548 a night, each have different furnishings and distinct personalities: a Yowie take on midcentury modern in one, "Fern Gully"-inspired whimsy in another.
Most rooms have kitchenettes with stone counters, where guests can cook with provided Caraway pots and pans. In the bathrooms, walls are covered with matte pool tiles in shades of pistachio green, dusty purple, cobalt blue and yellow.
While decorating the hotel, Ms. Maldonado turned to some vendors at the Yowie store, like the ceramic artist Sara Ekua Todd, to create furniture for the first time. Ms. Todd, who specializes in tableware, was commissioned to design a funky lavender clay table for one of the rooms.
In April, ahead of the hotel's opening, Ms. Maldonado closed the original Yowie store. Its last days were emotional, she said, as customers stopped by to wish her luck with the business's next chapter.
"This space brought so many great people into my life," Ms. Maldonado said. "I can't believe I created this thing, and it means so much to people."
Photograph The Yowie hotel is scheduled to open this summer on South Street in Philadelphia. (ST1); Shannon Maldonado inside the Yowie store at the new Yowie hotel in Philadelphia. She describes her colorful design style as minimal but cozy. Each room has a distinct personality. PHOTOGRAPHS BY NAOMIEH JOVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; TOP RIGHT, NAOMIEH JOVIN) (ST10) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST10.

Subject: Design; Black owned businesses; Furniture; Pop-up retail; Rents; Mass murders; Celebrities; Fashion designers; Hotels & motels; Housewares

Business indexing term: Subject: Black owned businesses Hotels & motels

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/20/style/yowie-hotel-philadelphia-shannon-maldonado.html

Title: A Hotel That Started as a Gift Shop:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 25, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829133902

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hotel-that-started-as-gift-shop/docview/2829133902/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

North Korean Defector Finds Audience on Right: [National Desk]

Author: Homans, Charles

Publication info: Homans, Charles. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/north-korean-defector-finds-audience-on-right/docview/2828583400/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "The first thing my mom taught me as a young girl living in North Korea was don't even whisper, because birds and mice could hear me," Yeonmi Park told the audience that had come to hear her speak in Queens.
"This is what dictators do: they plant a spike everywhere, a distrust between people, a distrust between family, even. The teachers tell their children," she went on, "'If your parents say one wrong thing, come to tell the teacher."'
It was a story that Ms. Park has told often, on television sets and conference stages and in a best-selling memoir, over the decade she has spent as one of the world's most famous defectors from the Kim family's isolated totalitarian state.
But in recent years, she has added a new postscript.
"And now," she told the crowd in Long Island City last weekend, "I see the same thing in America."
Conservative pundits and politicians have long warned that liberal economics and cultural politics would set the United States on the road to leftist authoritarianism. But until two years ago, they had never had an ally quite like Ms. Park. A refugee from the world's most infamous surviving Stalinist state, Ms. Park, 29, claims to back up those worst fears with firsthand experience: comparing calls to dismantle racism in math instruction, for instance, with lessons she received as a child in North Korean schools.
Describing her own recent experience as an undergraduate at Columbia University, Ms. Park told the Fox News host Mark Levin in an interview last month that the school's pedagogy "is exactly what the North Korean regime used to brainwash people." Left-wing indoctrination in American educational institutions, she said, "is, I think, the biggest threat that our nation, and our civilization is facing."
She now denounces Hillary Clinton, with whom she once shared a conference stage, as an "absolute faker and liar," and rails against transgender-oriented marketing campaigns: "Political correctness has erased women," she wrote recently on Facebook.
Underscoring it all is the warning that these complaints add up to something vastly more sinister than the sum of their Fox News chyrons. "I think so many people in America think that somehow America is immune to tyranny, and somehow a dictatorship begins like North Korea," she said at the Queens event, hosted by the conservative organization Turning Point USA. "It didn't begin there. It began with amazing promises of equity. They promised a socialist paradise to us."
"And with that promise," she added, "they took everything, one by one, from us." The crowd gave her two standing ovations.
Ms. Park's transformation from celebrity defector to loud critic of liberal identity politics is extraordinarily rare. Very few of the tens of thousands of people who have fled North Korea wade into domestic politics in the countries where they have taken refuge.
But in an American political climate that rewards hyperbole and alarm, Ms. Park, who became a U.S. citizen in 2021, has found a lucrative niche.
Her second book, "While Time Remains," a self-described "warning for Americans" published in February, has already outpaced the hardcover sales of her best-selling 2015 memoir. She is a regular guest on popular right-leaning TV networks and podcasts, and speaker at conservative universities and think tanks.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
This spring, she became a contributor to Turning Point USA, appearing at its conferences alongside figures like Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia and James O'Keefe, the right-wing activist recently ousted from Project Veritas.
Her recent trajectory has drawn winces from some past allies and supporters, who worry about the toll that her dive into the American culture wars may take on her effectiveness as a human rights advocate. And some observers of her career, noting her history of reinvention and questions raised about the accuracy of her account, have lifted an eyebrow at her latest act.
"She's an amazing entertainer," said Jay Song, a professor of Korean studies at the Asia Institute of the University of Melbourne in Australia, who studies the experiences of North Korean defectors. "She's very smart. She's always picking up on keywords."
A Celebrity Defector
In a recent interview, Ms. Park, who now lives in New York, described her own politics as less strident than they often appear in her media appearances. "I support gay marriage, I'm very socially liberal," she said. "I never thought I was a conservative." Asked whether she identifies as such now, she said no.
She likened the initial idea for her second book to Alexis de Tocqueville. "He comes from France to America -- to American democracy," she said. "So, like, what if a North Korean sees America and analyzes America?"
Ms. Park has lived most of her adult life in the glare of media scrutiny, in one form or another. Five years after escaping North Korea with her mother in 2007, at age 13, she was cast on "Now On My Way to Meet You," a popular variety show on South Korean television starring young women who had defected.
The program, which premiered in 2011, made North Koreans newly visible in South Korean popular culture. Ms. Park was one of its biggest stars, an effervescent personality who described her North Korean family as relatively affluent and was nicknamed "the Paris Hilton of North Korea."
"I think a lot of South Koreans learned a lot from that show," said Jean H. Lee, a journalist who reported from both North and South Korea for The Associated Press. "But it also created the celebrity defector culture."
In 2014, Ms. Park was invited to speak at the One Young World conference in Dublin, where she revealed a far darker story of her life in North Korea and of her escape.
Amid sobs, she said her mother had been raped by the human trafficker who brought them across the border into China, and described a flight on foot across the Gobi Desert into Mongolia. Later, she would say that she herself had been sold as a teenager to a Chinese husband. She had to work in an adult online chat room, she said, before she and her mother escaped from China.
A video of her short speech -- a horrific story delivered by a slight 21-year-old woman, wearing a traditional hanbok dress and trembling with emotion -- went viral, making Ms. Park an international humanitarian celebrity. Within months she had a book deal with Penguin Random House for a memoir written with Maryanne Vollers, Hillary Clinton's ghostwriter.
There were some noted inconsistencies among the stories Ms. Park had told to her South Korean audience and the ones she now told. Mary Ann Jolley, an Australian journalist, published a detailed account of conflicting and implausible details, from the government atrocities she described to the geographical details of her escape, her father's death in China and her experience in detention in Mongolia.
Ms. Park has disputed some of Ms. Jolley's criticisms but acknowledged others. Some were a result of language difficulties, she said, or the effects of trauma. She said others stemmed from liberties producers took with her identity on the show in South Korea.
"It was not a documentary," she said. "It was an entertainment show."
Ms. Park also said she resisted for years publicly divulging her full experience in China because of the stigma attached to it in conservative South Korea. "If I say I was a slave for two years as a kid, there's no respected family that would take me as their daughter," she said.
North Korea experts are quick to point out that Ms. Park's inconsistencies, while prominent, were not wholly unique. Ms. Song, who has interviewed numerous North Korean defectors, noted that the country's refugees are often unreliable narrators of their own experiences. Inside the country, she said, many learned to say whatever they needed to say to survive -- "whatever works for them to find a safe haven," she said.
But Ms. Lee said that the early questions surrounding Ms. Park's account of her escape, as well as her history of self-promotion, limited her impact in North Korea policy circles.
"It's a shame, because she has important things to say about what life is like in North Korea," she said. "But I think it's been clouded by a desire for attention or a platform."
Disenchanted With the Gala Circuit
When she wrote her first book, Ms. Park and her publisher were mindful of the skepticism Ms. Jolley's article generated, she said. Both she and Ms. Vollers have said they corroborated as much of the story as possible with interviews with family members and fellow defectors.
"In Order to Live" has sold more than 130,000 copies in hardcover and paperback combined, according to Circana BookScan. Ms. Park was showered with media attention, and she fielded invitations to private retreats hosted by Jeff Bezos and took selfies with Scarlett Johansson. She attended the Met Gala with Joe Gebbia, an Airbnb founder, and shared a speaking stage (at an event in partnership with The New York Times) with Mrs. Clinton, who looked her in the eye after her speech and "promised she would do everything in her power to help the women of North Korea," Ms. Park later wrote. (Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, said neither Mrs. Clinton nor her staff who were present at the time recalled Mrs. Clinton saying that.)
In her new book, however, Ms. Park writes about being disenchanted by her brush with elites. They were more interested in emotional gratification than in action, she came to believe.
She began studying at Columbia University in 2016 and majored in human rights, in hopes of becoming a professional advocate. But some people who encountered her at the time recalled that she seemed to struggle with the transition from celebrity dissident to more policy-focused activism.
She tried to lend her star power to a group called Freedom for North Korea, which raised money for a sister organization in South Korea that rescued North Korean refugees from China -- her personal passion. But Jin Park, a former human rights activist who worked with her in the group at the time, said Ms. Park was unsuccessful in the role and soon moved on.
"We thought that she could be a good fund-raiser because of her connections and networks," he said. "I think she tried, but getting people's money is not as easy as it sounds." (Ms. Park says she quickly learned she was too busy for the role at the time.)
Peter Rosenblum, a professor of human rights law who taught Ms. Park in her senior seminar, recalled being unimpressed by her as a student. But he said he was sympathetic to her situation, as someone who seemed to be trapped by the persona that she had been cast in at a very young age.
"In the human rights world, you spend a career studying how people deploy victims' stories, and the degrading effect of having to be a professional victim," Mr. Rosenblum said. "I saw her very much as that person: the celebrity victim who was going to get her degree but hadn't had the time and space to become a real student."
By the end of her time at Columbia, Ms. Park says, she was disengaged from school and barely there, commuting to her classes from Chicago, where she was living with her then-husband -- an American trading firm executive whom she has since divorced -- and young son.
And at Columbia, she now says, she was quickly put off by a campus culture she describes as obsessed with safe spaces and pronouns.
"My classmates were almost like giant adult babies," she said.
In her book, she writes that she was criticized for her enjoyment of Jane Austen novels and Western classical music. She describes the First Amendment as "a law Columbia teaches its students to hate" -- though she does not mention that she studied at Columbia with Lee Bollinger, the university president and a prominent First Amendment scholar known for his expansive view of freedom of speech and for defending conservative and far-right speakers' prerogative to appear on campus. Ms. Park declined to comment on the contents of the class. Columbia declined to comment.
Shortly after graduating in 2020, Ms. Park was assaulted and robbed of her wallet while out walking with her son in Chicago. As she used her cellphone to record her assailant, a Black woman, she said another woman shouted at her for doing so and called her a racist. (The assailant was later arrested and pleaded guilty to unlawful restraint, according to court records.)
The incident, she wrote, was a turning point in her own politics, "a sign of how far advanced the woke disease really was in America by that point, and how inhumane it was making otherwise normal people." She began to seek out allies who felt similarly.
After reading a book by Jordan Peterson, the Canadian psychologist and popular conservative media personality, she sought out his daughter, Mikhaila, a podcaster and social-media lifestyle influencer, who invited her on her podcast. Hearing that Mr. Peterson was a collector of Soviet art, Ms. Park sent him a North Korean postcard she had saved.
Mr. Peterson invited her on his podcast, where she described her experience at Columbia. The interview led to a flurry of conservative media attention and, shortly thereafter, a $ 500,000 book deal with Threshold Editions, Simon & Schuster's conservative imprint. Mr. Peterson wrote the book's foreword.
'It's a Free Society'
Ms. Park maintains that her recent outspokenness has cost, not made, her money. The advance for "While Time Remains," while significant, was well short of the $ 1.1 million she received for her previous book. Invitations for well-paying corporate speaking events that used to make up much of her income have slowed to a trickle, she said.
She now earns $ 6,600 a month from Turning Point USA, she said, and maintains a busy itinerary of talks before other conservative audiences who are more eager to hear her warnings about "cancel culture" and "woke" identity politics. After a recent talk in Brookfield, Wis., a suburb of Milwaukee, a local school board member, Sam Hughes, posted on Facebook about the power of Ms. Park's presentation.
"The North Korean regime created schools not to teach children how to think, but what to believe," Mr. Hughes wrote, warning about the dangers "groupthink and collectivism." Considering his district's equity programs, "North Korea's example should come to mind," he wrote.
Jihyun Park, a North Korean defector and a Conservative Party politician in Britain, who knows Ms. Park, said that Ms. Park's trajectory rang true to her. North Koreans have particularly important insights into the perils of taking Western liberal democracy for granted, she said.
"The U.K. teaches me English and their culture, I've taught them freedom and democracy," she said. In the United States, "Yeonmi also does this," she said.
Ms. Song is more skeptical. She described Ms. Park as a perceptive reader, and reflector, of cultural and political expectations. "Her story in South Korea was a mirror of what South Korea was back then," Ms. Song said. "Now," she said, "it's a mirror of the contemporary U.S. politics, U.S. society."
Ms. Park, for her part, suggested that her latest turn might not be her last.
"I might write a completely different book in five years," she said. "I might say everything that I wrote in the second book was dumb. But that's O.K."
She laughed. "It's a free society," she said.
Photograph Yeonmi Park, who fled North Korea at 13, onstage at a Turning Point USA event in Queens. (A1); "I think so many people in America think that somehow America is immune to tyranny," Yeonmi Park said in Queens. She has faced criticism over inconsistencies in her accounts of her life. She blames language difficulties and the effects of trauma. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Conservatism; Autobiographies; Audiences; Celebrities; Personal profiles; Books; Families & family life; Political campaigns; Political asylum

Location: North Korea; New York; United States--US; China; Mongolia; South Korea

People: Clinton, Hillary Rodham

Company / organization: Name: Turning Point USA; NAICS: 813940; Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/22/us/politics/yeonmi-park-north-korea-republicans.html

Title: North Korean Defector Finds Audience on Right:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 23, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2828583400

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/north-korean-defector-finds-audience-on-right/docview/2828583400/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A North Korean Dissident Defects to the American Right

Author: Homans, Charles

Publication info: Homans, Charles. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/north-korean-dissident-defects-american-right/docview/2828457412/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
“The first thing my mom taught me as a young girl living in North Korea was don’t even whisper, because birds and mice could hear me,” Yeonmi Park told the audience that had come to hear her speak in Queens, New York.
“This is what dictators do: They plant a spike everywhere, a distrust between people, a distrust between family, even. The teachers tell their children,” she went on, “‘If your parents say one wrong thing, come to tell the teacher.’”
It was a story that Park has told often, on television sets and conference stages and in a bestselling memoir, over the decade she has spent as one of the world’s most famous defectors from the Kim family’s isolated totalitarian state.
But in recent years, she has added a new postscript.
“And now,” she told the crowd in Long Island City last weekend, “I see the same thing in America.”
Conservative pundits and politicians have long warned that liberal economics and cultural politics would set the United States on the road to leftist authoritarianism. But until two years ago, they had never had an ally quite like Park. A refugee from the world’s most infamous surviving Stalinist state, Park, 29, claims to back up those worst fears with firsthand experience: comparing calls to dismantle racism in math instruction, for instance, with lessons she received as a child in North Korean schools.
Describing her own recent experience as an undergraduate at Columbia University, Park told Fox News host Mark Levin in an interview last month that the school’s pedagogy “is exactly what the North Korean regime used to brainwash people.” Left-wing indoctrination in U.S. educational institutions, she said, “is, I think, the biggest threat that our nation and our civilization is facing.”
She now denounces Hillary Rodham Clinton, with whom she once shared a conference stage, as an “absolute faker and liar” and rails against transgender-oriented marketing campaigns: “Political correctness has erased women,” she wrote recently on Facebook.
Underscoring it all is the warning that these complaints add up to something vastly more sinister than the sum of their Fox News chyrons. “I think so many people in America think that somehow America is immune to tyranny, and somehow a dictatorship begins like North Korea,” she said at the Queens event, hosted by the conservative organization Turning Point USA. “It didn’t begin there. It began with amazing promises of equity. They promised a socialist paradise to us.
“And with that promise,” she added, “they took everything, one by one, from us.” The crowd gave her two standing ovations.
Park’s transformation from celebrity defector to loud critic of liberal identity politics is extraordinarily rare. Very few of the tens of thousands of people who have fled North Korea wade into domestic politics in the countries where they have taken refuge.
But in an American political climate that rewards hyperbole and alarm, Park, who became a U.S. citizen in 2021, has found a lucrative niche.
Her second book, “While Time Remains,” a self-described “warning for Americans” published in February, has already outpaced the hardcover sales of her bestselling 2015 memoir. She is a regular guest on popular right-leaning TV networks and podcasts, and speaker at conservative universities and think tanks.
This spring, she became a contributor to Turning Point USA, appearing at its conferences alongside figures like Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., and James O’Keefe, the right-wing activist recently ousted from Project Veritas.
Her recent trajectory has drawn winces from some past allies and supporters, who worry about the toll that her dive into the American culture wars may take on her effectiveness as a human rights advocate. And some observers of her career, noting her history of reinvention and questions raised about the accuracy of her account, have lifted an eyebrow at her latest act.
“She’s an amazing entertainer,” said Jay Song, a professor of Korean studies at the Asia Institute of the University of Melbourne in Australia, who studies the experiences of North Korean defectors. “She’s very smart. She’s always picking up on keywords.”
A Celebrity Defector
In a recent interview, Park, who now lives in New York, described her own politics as less strident than they often appear in her media appearances. “I support gay marriage. I’m very socially liberal,” she said. “I never thought I was a conservative.” Asked whether she identifies as such now, she said no.
She likened the initial idea for her second book to Alexis de Tocqueville. “He comes from France to America — to American democracy,” she said. “So, like, what if a North Korean sees America and analyzes America?”
Park has lived most of her adult life in the glare of media scrutiny, in one form or another. Five years after escaping North Korea with her mother in 2007, at age 13, she was cast on “Now On My Way to Meet You,” a popular variety show on South Korean television starring young women who had defected.
The program, which premiered in 2011, made North Koreans newly visible in South Korean popular culture. Park was one of its biggest stars, an effervescent personality who described her North Korean family as relatively affluent and was nicknamed “the Paris Hilton of North Korea.”
“I think a lot of South Koreans learned a lot from that show,” said Jean H. Lee, a journalist who reported from both North and South Korea for The Associated Press. “But it also created the celebrity defector culture.”
In 2014, Park was invited to speak at the One Young World conference in Dublin, where she revealed a far darker story of her life in North Korea and of her escape.
Amid sobs, she said her mother had been raped by the human trafficker who brought them across the border into China, and described a flight on foot across the Gobi Desert into Mongolia. Later, she would say that she herself had been sold as a teenager to a Chinese husband. She had to work in an adult online chat room, she said, before she and her mother escaped from China.
A video of her short speech — a horrific story delivered by a slight 21-year-old woman wearing a traditional hanbok dress and trembling with emotion — went viral, making Park an international humanitarian celebrity. Within months, she had a book deal with Penguin Random House for a memoir written with Maryanne Vollers, Clinton’s ghostwriter.
There were some noted inconsistencies among the stories Park had told to her South Korean audience and the ones she now told. Mary Ann Jolley, an Australian journalist, published a detailed account of conflicting and implausible details, from the government atrocities she described to the geographical details of her escape, her father’s death in China and her experience in detention in Mongolia.
Park has disputed some of Jolley’s criticisms but acknowledged others. Some were a result of language difficulties, she said, or the effects of trauma. She said others stemmed from liberties producers took with her identity on the show in South Korea.
“It was not a documentary,” she said. “It was an entertainment show.”
Park also said she resisted for years publicly divulging her full experience in China because of the stigma attached to it in conservative South Korea. “If I say I was a slave for two years as a kid, there’s no respected family that would take me as their daughter,” she said.
North Korea experts are quick to point out that Park’s inconsistencies, while prominent, were not wholly unique. Song, who has interviewed numerous North Korean defectors, noted that the country’s refugees are often unreliable narrators of their own experiences. Inside the country, she said, many learned to say whatever they needed to say to survive — “whatever works for them to find a safe haven,” she said.
But Lee said that the early questions surrounding Park’s account of her escape, as well as her history of self-promotion, limited her impact in North Korea policy circles.
“It’s a shame, because she has important things to say about what life is like in North Korea,” she said. “But I think it’s been clouded by a desire for attention or a platform.”
Disenchanted With the Gala Circuit
When she wrote her first book, Park and her publisher were mindful of the skepticism Jolley’s article generated, she said. Both she and Vollers have said they corroborated as much of the story as possible with interviews with family members and fellow defectors.
“In Order to Live” has sold more than 130,000 copies in hardcover and paperback combined, according to Circana BookScan. Park was showered with media attention, and she fielded invitations to private retreats hosted by Jeff Bezos and took selfies with Scarlett Johansson. She attended the Met Gala with Joe Gebbia, an Airbnb founder, and shared a speaking stage (at an event in partnership with The New York Times) with Clinton, who looked her in the eye after her speech and “promised she would do everything in her power to help the women of North Korea,” Park later wrote. (Nick Merrill, a spokesperson for Clinton, said neither Clinton nor her staff who were present at the time recalled Clinton saying that.)
In her new book, however, Park writes about being disenchanted by her brush with elites. They were more interested in emotional gratification than in action, she came to believe.
She began studying at Columbia University in 2016 and majored in human rights, in hopes of becoming a professional advocate. But some people who encountered her at the time recalled that she seemed to struggle with the transition from celebrity dissident to more policy-focused activism.
She tried to lend her star power to a group called Freedom for North Korea, which raised money for a sister organization in South Korea that rescued North Korean refugees from China — her personal passion. But Jin Park, a former human rights activist who worked with her in the group at the time, said Yeonmi Park was unsuccessful in the role and soon moved on.
“We thought that she could be a good fundraiser because of her connections and networks,” he said. “I think she tried, but getting people’s money is not as easy as it sounds.” (Park said she quickly learned she was too busy for the role at the time.)
Peter Rosenblum, a professor of human rights law who taught Park in her senior seminar, recalled being unimpressed by her as a student. But he said he was sympathetic to her situation, as someone who seemed to be trapped by the persona that she had been cast in at a very young age.
“In the human rights world, you spend a career studying how people deploy victims’ stories, and the degrading effect of having to be a professional victim,” Rosenblum said. “I saw her very much as that person: the celebrity victim who was going to get her degree but hadn’t had the time and space to become a real student.”
By the end of her time at Columbia, Park said, she was disengaged from school and barely there, commuting to her classes from Chicago, where she was living with her then-husband — an American trading firm executive whom she has since divorced — and young son.
And at Columbia, she now says, she was quickly put off by a campus culture she describes as obsessed with safe spaces and pronouns.
“My classmates were almost like giant adult babies,” she said.
In her book, she writes that she was criticized for her enjoyment of Jane Austen novels and Western classical music. She describes the First Amendment as “a law Columbia teaches its students to hate” — though she does not mention that she studied at Columbia with Lee Bollinger, the university president and a prominent First Amendment scholar known for his expansive view of freedom of speech and for defending conservative and far-right speakers’ prerogative to appear on campus. Park declined to comment on the contents of the class. Columbia declined to comment.
Shortly after graduating in 2020, Park was assaulted and robbed of her wallet while out walking with her son in Chicago. As she used her cellphone to record her assailant, a Black woman, she said another woman shouted at her for doing so and called her a racist. (The assailant was later arrested and pleaded guilty to unlawful restraint, according to court records.)
The incident, she wrote, was a turning point in her own politics, “a sign of how far advanced the woke disease really was in America by that point, and how inhumane it was making otherwise normal people.” She began to seek out allies who felt similarly.
After reading a book by Jordan Peterson, the Canadian psychologist and popular conservative media personality, she sought out his daughter, Mikhaila, a podcaster and social media lifestyle influencer, who invited Park on her podcast. Hearing that Peterson was a collector of Soviet art, Park sent him a North Korean postcard she had saved.
Jordan Peterson invited Park on his podcast, where she described her experience at Columbia. The interview led to a flurry of conservative media attention and, shortly thereafter, a $500,000 book deal with Threshold Editions, Simon & Schuster’s conservative imprint. Peterson wrote the book’s foreword.
‘It’s a Free Society’
Park maintains that her recent outspokenness has cost, not made, her money. The advance for “While Time Remains,” while significant, was well short of the $1.1 million she received for her previous book. Invitations for well-paying corporate speaking events that used to make up much of her income have slowed to a trickle, she said.
She now earns $6,600 a month from Turning Point USA, she said, and maintains a busy itinerary of talks before other conservative audiences who are more eager to hear her warnings about cancel culture and “woke” identity politics. After a recent talk in Brookfield, Wisconsin, a suburb of Milwaukee, a local school board member, Sam Hughes, posted on Facebook about the power of Park’s presentation.
“The North Korean regime created schools not to teach children how to think, but what to believe,” Hughes wrote, warning about the dangers of “groupthink and collectivism.” Considering his district’s equity programs, “North Korea’s example should come to mind,” he wrote.
Jihyun Park, a North Korean defector and a Conservative Party politician in Britain who knows Yeonmi Park, said that Yeonmi Park’s trajectory rang true to her. North Koreans have particularly important insights into the perils of taking Western liberal democracy for granted, she said.
“The U.K. teaches me English and their culture; I’ve taught them freedom and democracy,” she said. In the United States, “Yeonmi also does this,” she said.
Song is more skeptical. She described Yeonmi Park as a perceptive reader and reflector of cultural and political expectations. “Her story in South Korea was a mirror of what South Korea was back then,” Song said. “Now,” she said, “it’s a mirror of the contemporary U.S. politics, U.S. society.”
Park, for her part, suggested that her latest turn might not be her last.
“I might write a completely different book in five years,” she said. “I might say everything that I wrote in the second book was dumb. But that’s O.K.”
She laughed. “It’s a free society,” she said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Conservatism; Autobiographies; Celebrities; Personal profiles; Books; Families & family life; Political asylum

Location: North Korea; New York; United States--US; Long Island New York; China; Mongolia; South Korea

People: Park, Yeonmi

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Turning Point USA; NAICS: 813940; Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120

Identifier / keyword: Decisions And Verdicts; Queens (Nyc); Freedom Of Speech And Expression; Freedom Of The Press; University Of Georgia; Gentrification; Simon & Schuster Inc; House Of Representatives; Privacy; Defective Products; Assaults; O'keefe, James E Iii; Celebrities; Ussr (Former Soviet Union); Bollinger, Lee C; Parties (Social); Great Britain; Park, Yeonmi; Cancel Culture; Melbourne (Australia); United States; Random House; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Conservatism (Us Politics); Canada; Democracy (Theory And Philosophy); Careers And Professions; Long, Michael R; Airbnb; Elections; Philanthropy; Georgia (Georgian Republic); Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Politics And Government; University Of Melbourne; Liberalism (Us Politics); Austen, Jane; Project Veritas; Conservative Party (Great Britain); Homosexuality And Bisexuality; De Tocqueville, Alexis; Hilton, Paris; Gebbia, Joe; Fugitives; Hiring And Promotion; Threshold Editions; Peterson, Jordan (1962 ); Social Media; South Korea; Vollers, Maryanne; Johansson, Scarlett; United States Politics And Government; Discrimination; Mongolia; Book Trade And Publishing; Wisconsin; Foreign Investments; Computers And The Internet; Actors And Actresses; Same Sex Marriage, Civil Unions And Domestic Partnerships; Sex Crimes; Law And Legislation; Black People; International Relations; News And News Media; Writing And Writers; Refugees And Displaced Persons; Facebook Inc; Theater; North Korea; Education (K 12); Illegal Immigration; Birds; East Asia; Newspapers; Ears And Hearing; Columbia University; Korean Americans; Socialism (Theory And Philosophy); Fox News Channel; Penguin Random House; Podcasts; Evacuations And Evacuees; Defectors (Political); Television; France; Australia; Greene, Marjorie Taylor (1974 ); Chicago (Ill); First Amendment (Us Constitution); Human Trafficking; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Colleges And Universities; Milwaukee (Wis); Bookscan; Associated Press; Long Island City (Queens, Ny); Fringe Groups And Movements; New York Times; Turning Point Usa; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological; China

Title: A North Korean Dissident Defects to the American Right

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-22T22:34:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2828457412

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/north-korean-dissident-defects-american-right/docview/2828457412/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New Yo rk Times Company Jun 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

5.6%: [MONEY AND BUSINESS/FINANCIAL DESK]

Author: Solis, Marie

Publication info: Solis, Marie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/5-6/docview/2826906677/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Federal Reserve skipped an interest-rate increase on Wednesday, breaking a formidable streak. But while investors have long awaited this moment, they were hardly celebrating. That's because central bankers also signaled that they would bring the benchmark rate up to 5.6 percent this year.
The Fed began raising interest rates from near zero in March 2022, when inflation hit a 40-year high. By last month -- more than a year later -- the Fed had taken rates above 5 percent and reached a milestone of 10 straight rate increases.
Why so many? Even as the Fed has kept its feet firmly on the brakes, inflation has proved stubborn. Other economic data, like the jobs report, has shown unexpected resilience in the face of the Fed's campaign to cool prices and slow the economy.
Wednesday's rate pause came as more signs have emerged that the Fed's efforts are working. Still, Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, said the central bank would like to see "credible evidence" that inflation has topped out.
Fed officials also want to give themselves time to assess the effects of their policy to avoid tipping the economy into a recession.
What does this mean for the direction of the economy?
Fed officials predicted that by the end of the year, inflation could fall to 3.2 percent. (The latest data, released on Tuesday, showed inflation at 4 percent for the year through May.)
But if officials fail to soon bring inflation under control, consumers and businesses could come to expect steadily higher prices and adjust their behavior accordingly -- making inflation more entrenched.
"Junk fees are not a matter for the wealthy very much but they're a matter for working folks like the homes I grew up in."
President Biden, at a White House round table on Thursday with executives from Live Nation, SeatGeek, Airbnb and other companies under scrutiny for surcharges.
"This has been an economic boom unlike any this city has seen."
Debbie Folden, the mayor of Ontario, Ore., where legalized marijuana is drawing vast crowds, and tax revenue, from neighboring Idaho.
"The nation's daunting long-term fiscal challenges remain."
Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Moody's Analytics, said of the U.S. gross national debt exceeding $ 32 trillion for the first time on Friday.
This article appeared in print on page BU2.

Subject: Inflation; Interest rates

Business indexing term: Subject: Inflation Interest rates

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/16/business/the-big-number-5-6.html

Title: 5.6%:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 18, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826906677

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/5-6/docview/2826906677/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Feeling Heat From Biden, Ticket Giants Yield on Fees: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Sisario, Ben; Kanno-Youngs, Zolan

Publication info: Sisario, Ben; Kanno-Youngs, Zolan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/feeling-heat-biden-ticket-giants-yield-on-fees/docview/2826049430/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Live Nation and SeatGeek said they would show customers the full cost of concerts, after the White House's complaints that "junk fees" for tickets and hotel stays can mislead consumers.
Under pressure from the Biden administration, some of the biggest companies that handle ticketing for concerts and other live events announced on Thursday that they will make it easier for consumers to see the full price of tickets they want to buy, including the fees that can often add more than 30 percent to the total cost of an order.
Live Nation, the world's largest concert company, said it would begin introducing "all-in pricing" -- showing consumers the full price up front -- at the venues it controls, which include more than 200 amphitheaters, clubs and other spaces in the United States. Ticketmaster, which is owned by Live Nation, said it would make this tool available to other venues and promoters as well. Those changes are expected beginning in September.
SeatGeek, a major vendor for reselling tickets that also works for major venues and sports teams like the Dallas Cowboys, said it too would begin introducing a feature that would reveal to consumers the full price of a ticket.
Those changes come as the Biden administration has stepped up its pressure on the entertainment and travel industries to rein in what it calls "junk fees." Before beginning a round table at the White House with executives from Live Nation, SeatGeek, Airbnb and other companies on Thursday, President Biden framed the crackdown on surcharges as a way to appeal to the working class -- a major theme of his re-election campaign.
"These hidden charges that companies sneak into your bill make you pay more without you really knowing it initially," Mr. Biden said. "Junk fees are not a matter for the wealthy very much but they're a matter for working folks like the homes I grew up in."
As Mr. Biden spoke, a screen showed an example of a "service charge" of $ 12.99. But for the most in-demand concerts, those fees can be many times higher. For one Drake concert, for example, a screenshot ricocheted around social media in March showing that for two tickets costing $ 544, three surcharges -- service fee, facility charge and order fee -- added another $ 541, nearly doubling the total cost.
Ticketing, and questions of competition and consumer fairness in the entertainment industry, became hot-button issues in Washington after a botched presale in November for Taylor Swift's Eras Tour. Ticketmaster's system was overrun with bots, and many fans reported that tickets they had selected disappeared from their online shopping charts.
At a Senate Judiciary hearing in January, Live Nation came under harsh, bipartisan attack, with senators openly calling the company a monopoly. The Justice Department has separately been investigating Live Nation for potential violations of the consent decree that was a condition of the company's merger with Ticketmaster in 2010; among the terms in that agreement were that Live Nation cannot threaten venues with retaliation for not using Ticketmaster as their official ticket vendor.
But the extent to which the most recent promises by Live Nation and SeatGeek would substantially change the ticket market are unclear. The concert industry is complex, with pricing and fees controlled by various parties that have little incentive to reduce their take -- especially with live music rebounding after its near-disappearance during the Covid-19 pandemic, and ticket sales now reaching record highs.
The changes by Live Nation and SeatGeek do not lower prices or include any commitment to reduce surcharges, which are often set by venues; those companies are simply promising to disclose fees as part of a ticket's total cost.
After Mr. Biden's State of the Union address in February -- at which he said, "We can stop service fees on tickets to concerts and sporting events and make companies disclose all the fees upfront" -- Live Nation proposed federal legislation that, among other things, would mandate all-in pricing.
Without all competitors held to the same standard, many executives in the ticketing world say, those that comply voluntarily would be put at a competitive disadvantage, since other venues and ticketing services could lure customers by advertising lower prices, only to reveal surcharges once a customer completes a transaction.
Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat of Connecticut who is a sponsor of a bill called the Junk Fee Prevention Act, offered a mixed review of Live Nation's pledge of transparency.
"Live Nation-Ticketmaster's announcement is a step in the right direction," Mr. Blumenthal said in a statement, "but no substitute for legislation to provide consumers with transparency and prevent companies from imposing ridiculous junk fees."
Still, Mr. Biden said that all the companies he had gathered for the round table were "voluntarily committed to 'all-in' upfront pricing," and he called it a victory.
"This is a win for consumers in my view," Mr. Biden said, "and proof that our crackdown on junk fees has real momentum."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Customer services; Professional football; Ticket sales; Consumers; State of the Union Address; Fees & charges

Business indexing term: Subject: Customer services Consumers

Company / organization: Name: SeatGeek; NAICS: 518210; Name: Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/15/arts/music/live-nation-ticketmaster-junk-fees.html

Title: Feeling Heat From Biden, Ticket Giants Yield on Fees:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826049430

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/feeling-heat-biden-ticket-giants-yield-on-fees/docview/2826049430/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Artist Residency to Close After Six-Year Run: [Correction]

Author: Burke, Siobhan

Publication info: Burke, Siobhan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/artist-residency-close-after-six-year-run/docview/2826049376/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The center, an unstructured retreat for dance artists, ran into financial difficulties that were heightened by the pandemic.
On an idyllic spring day, the choreographer Stephen Petronio was standing in his favorite spot at the Petronio Residency Center, an elevated wooden structure that he calls the perch. With sweeping views of the Catskills and beyond, the quiet space sits on the lush, hilltop property he has transformed, over the past six years, into a retreat for choreographers and dancers, where artists can come to work -- or not work -- outside the usual demands of daily life.
"Whether you need money or you need an idea, it's all better when you come here," he said of the perch.
If he sounded a little wistful, that's because he was preparing to say goodbye. Caught in a web of financial difficulties, Petronio and his board of advisers have decided to close the center and put the 175-acre property up for sale. The final residency takes place this month.
"It's a very, very heartbreaking decision," he said, "but I don't see any other way forward."
Jill Brienza, the board chair of the Stephen Petronio Company, which owns the center, echoed that sentiment in a phone interview: "We talked with a lot of people. Thought about every option. We didn't do this lightly."
When the center opened, in 2018, dance in the Hudson River Valley seemed to be booming. But now Petronio's enterprise joins other dance-focused institutions that have closed in recent years, or gone on seemingly indefinite hiatus, like Lumberyard, in Catskill, N.Y., and Mount Tremper Arts, both of which supported New York City choreographers in building new work.
Petronio, 67, acknowledged that, in certain respects, he had been unwilling to make financial compromises. Having encountered all kinds of working conditions throughout his career, he said he wanted resident artists to feel "treated like the queens and kings we are." That meant providing not only room and board, unlimited studio access and a stipend, but also locally sourced meals prepared by chefs on site. "The starving artist thing?" he said. "Not here."
Residencies have been awarded to more than 25 artists, including Nora Chipaumire and Jamar Roberts. For artists coming from New York City, as many did, the sheer amount of space was a luxury. The grounds feature a 2,500-square-foot studio; a five-bedroom, eight-bathroom, two-kitchen house; an organic garden; and 77 acres conserved through a $ 500,000 grant from the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation.
As the founder and artistic director of the Stephen Petronio Company, a contemporary dance troupe based in New York City that has endured for nearly 40 years, Petronio is no stranger to economic uncertainty. Known for his collaborations with high-profile visual artists, the company purchased the center with proceeds from the sale of a sculpture by Anish Kapoor and from auctioning other works of art.
"My career has always been like, you're in a river, and you're jumping from stone to stone, and you get to the next place," Petronio said. With the residency center, "I just assumed that was going to happen, because it always has."
"And then the pandemic happened," he added. "If all things had continued the way they were going before the pandemic, we would be OK."
Petronio said the center's financial challenges included "the wobbling of the stock market," as well as a shift in the priorities of foundations toward funding social justice-oriented initiatives, which, he said, "I stand 100 percent behind." Grants that he was counting on didn't come through, he said, noting that the center is now operating through a $ 500,000 government loan.
During the depths of the pandemic, his company lost all touring engagements, a critical source of earned income, he said. To provide opportunities for dance artists in a bleak time, he kept the center open, with added safety precautions and a new application-based program devised by Marya Warshaw, who became the center's director in March 2020. (Previously, residencies had been awarded only through a nomination and selection process.) When not in use by artists, the house was rented out through Airbnb though rental income dropped when pandemic restrictions eased, Petronio said.
The property will be listed at $ 4.2 million, more than three times the $ 1.3 million it was bought for in 2016. Petronio said he intends to use the revenue to continue supporting younger artists, and he hopes to expand a local dance education program that evolved in tandem with the center. Brienza said money from the sale would also support Petronio's continued creation of new work for his company.
Part of Petronio's vision, he said, was to release artists from expectations of creating a finished product -- or any product. "My proposal is: What happens if you take away all those pressures to your creative self?"
The choreographer Rashaun Mitchell, who had a residency in 2022 with his partner Silas Riener and other collaborators, said that between rehearsals, the group took "ample breaks to go rejuvenate ourselves and come back and work."
"Being able to get out of the city, commune with nature, take a big breath of fresh air -- it did wonders for all of us in the process," Mitchell said.
Warshaw, who is also the former director of Brooklyn Arts Exchange, said she sees the Petronio Residency Center's closure as a reflection of larger changes in "the ecosystem that is New York City dance and performance."
"Things are quite precarious right now," she said. "When one institution closes and there are others that are struggling or closing, that's profound for our field, which didn't even have nearly enough to begin with."
Petronio, who lives next door to the center, seems to maintain a spirit of optimism. Residing in nature, he said, "has had a giant impact on my thinking." He describes it like this: "When there's no possibility left, a new one cracks open."
Photograph The choreographer Stephen Petronio is closing his residency center, which opened in 2018, saying, "I don't see any other way forward." (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIETA CERVANTES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C16.

Subject: Visual artists; Dance; Dancers & choreographers; Artists-in-residence

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

People: Petronio, Stephen

Company / organization: Name: Stephen Petronio Co; NAICS: 711120

Title: Artist Residency to Close After Six-Year Run:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 16, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826049376

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/artist-residency-close-after-six-year-run/docview/2826049376/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

She's Done With School (on TV, Anyway): [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Coleman, Nancy

Publication info: Coleman, Nancy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shes-done-with-school-on-tv-anyway/docview/2823849766/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With the final season of "Never Have I Ever," the actress is graduating from her first onscreen role. Next up: a (nonfictional) college degree.
Which boy does the actress Maitreyi Ramakrishnan want her character to wind up with by the end of "Never Have I Ever"?
Apparently, it depends on the day -- at least as far as most reporters are aware.
"OK, in this interview, I'll be honest -- I'm going to let you in on my plan," Ramakrishnan, 21, said ahead of the comedy's fourth and final season, which arrived Thursday on Netflix. That plan: to give different answers to different publications in her other exit interviews.
Why go to the trouble? Mostly, it seems, to mess with people.
But it was also her way of dismissing the debate entirely. Should her character, Devi, the show's self-sabotaging and sex-obsessed teen protagonist, choose the swoon-worthy swim captain, Paxton (Darren Barnet)? Should she choose Ben (Jaren Lewison), a certified nerd and Devi's sworn scholastic rival? Should Ramakrishnan care?
"Both guys, they're great," she said. But Devi is so young, she added. "When I think about my 17-year-old self, I wouldn't want her to tie herself down. Like, go to college, bro. Live your life."
When we last saw Devi, she had about as much life as she could handle. She had just cashed in Ben's handwritten coupon for "one free boink" -- and, in doing so, traded in her long-detested V-Card. The final season picks up in the chaos of the aftermath, but Devi also has to focus on her academic future as she heads into senior year. There are friendships and romantic prospects to balance, yes, but also admissions counselors to meet, universities to visit.
Ramakrishnan, who grew up just outside Toronto, in Mississauga, Ontario, was once a normal teenager navigating high school herself, a first-generation daughter of Tamil immigrants from Sri Lanka. Like Devi, who is Indian American, she was raised in a multigenerational home -- and still lives there with her family. She is also, like Devi, an ardent nerd in her own right. (Her Instagram account is filled with past cosplay looks, and she spent the last several minutes of our call bestowing video game tips.)
Any sense of normalcy changed quickly after she answered an open casting call during her senior year, in 2019, from Mindy Kaling and Lang Fisher, the creators of "Never." She beat out more than 15,000 others for the role, her first professional acting gig. Other jobs have followed: She lent her voice to the Disney/Pixar animated feature "Turning Red" (2022), and she has been cast in the upcoming Netflix film "The Netherfield Girls," a modern adaptation of "Pride and Prejudice."
In a video call late last month from an Airbnb in Los Angeles, Ramakrishnan shared her thoughts about wrapping up the series, finishing her first full year of college and sharing said Airbnb with her grandmother. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Many of Devi's experiences are outlandish on the surface, but the emotions she is dealing with are relatable. Did you have a similar high-school experience?
I wasn't boy crazy like Devi; I was always friends-first. But the biggest lesson I related to was her self-love journey, about learning to like herself first. You have to be OK with your own silence.
Do you think you've reached that point with yourself?
I've learned that it ebbs and flows. That happens with any new relationship, right? It's not a linear journey, for sure. I'm definitely better than where I was when I was 17. I used to get really mad at myself for being someone who wore her heart on her sleeve. When I liked a guy, I would straight up just go tell him. Like: "Hey, man. This is it. I like you." I went through a phase where I stopped doing that, out of just being scared.
Having your heart on your sleeve is such a big Devi thing.
That's why I got this tattoo! [She holds up her arm and points to the inside of her elbow, where there is an illustration of an anatomically correct heart.] It's kind of a "Never Have I Ever" tattoo. One of the best lines in the show is Dr. Ryan [Devi's therapist, played by Niecy Nash] saying, "Devi, you feel a lot, and that means you're going to hurt a lot, but it means you're going to live such a beautiful and rich life." Oh my God, when I'm crying in that scene, I'm actually crying because that's me -- in that moment, I just bawled. I was like, There's nothing wrong with how I feel. I do feel a lot.
This is one of those shows where you want to scream at the screen when Devi does something stupid. But we still root for her for four seasons. Why do you think we stay on her side?
I wish I had a video of fans reacting to Devi's most idiotic moments. My reaction when I read the script is always like, [sucks in a sharp breath through her teeth] ooo-kay. But I think the reason people can root for her goes back to the core of her mess-ups coming from real places. It's easier sometimes to tell our friends and family the things they deserve and the way we see them. But when we look in the mirror, it's hard for us to say that we deserve the same respect -- that we, too, are just as beautiful. I think Devi is that messy friend that we really see in ourselves.
How did you handle those heavier scenes about the death of Devi's father?
Mindy and Lang helped walk through how it felt for them with their respective parents, but it was also just learning how to feel openly sad. Actors get this awesome opportunity to cry, and then at the end of it, no one asks us, "Are you OK?" We get applauded. We can full-on have a meltdown and everyone goes: "Oh my God. Amazing." And sometimes that's great. Sometimes it's a lot. When going into those scenes, I try to recognize we're making a different show -- still comedic, but tonally, we're going to feel sad now. But that's life, right? It's comedic, and then it gets really sad and you have a dead dad dream.
There is plenty of focus on Devi's mother (Poorna Jagannathan), which isn't very common in shows about high school.
Yeah, 100 percent, the whole family dynamic. I think one of my favorite parts of "Never Have I Ever" was the addition of Devi's grandma. Because I'm really close to my grandma -- right now, actually. In this Airbnb that I'm staying at. My grandma and I are bunking with each other. But I grew up with my mom, my grandma and my great-grandma all under the same roof. And my dad, my brother, my grandpa -- but four generations of women, that was what I'm used to. Family discussions in my house are like pingpong matches. I think the Vishwakumars do the same thing. And Nirmala [Devi's grandmother, played by Ranjita Chakravarty]? She's got sass. That's my grandma. I definitely got my overdramatic self from her.
So much of this season follows Devi's journey to get into college. Has it made you think about going back to school? [Ramakrishnan deferred her acceptance to York University's theater program in Toronto when she was cast.]
I actually am back. Dude, I finished my mandatory science, and I could not be happier.
Which one was it?
Astronomy. It's such an art kid thing to do. Like, ooh! Stars! Ooh! Planets! Space! My whole approach to school right now is to get ahead where I can, but I'm on no timeline. Obviously, it's been four years and I didn't get it done and I'm still alive. But I do genuinely just love learning. My degree now is in human rights and equity studies. My parents think I'm a sadist, just for doing all the work that I do at once. I will pat myself on the back for getting through my whole semester with decent grades -- I am a "Cs get degrees" kind of person, but I did way better.
How do you feel about how the series ended?
It could have gone into a Team Ben or Team Paxton win at the end, and I'd be pretty indifferent. I think it's pretty awesome that she's grown up so much. I'm just Team Devi; I really am. I'm about her independence, her making mistakes, just learning what she likes. I will die on this hill. I think people think I'm lying, but I genuinely am all about letting a woman be a woman.
Photograph Maitreyi Ramakrishnan was a regular 17-year-old when she was cast for the lead in "Never Have I Ever." As the final season runs, her life looks very different. Below, from left, the series stars Ramakrishnan as Devi; and Ranjita Chakravarty, far left, Poorna Jagannathan and Richa Moorjani. Like her character, Ramakrishnan grew up in a multigenerational immigrant home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH WEINBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LARA SOLANKI/NETFLIX) This article appeared in print on page C14.

Subject: Actors; Seasons

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/08/arts/television/maitreyi-ramakrishnan-neve r-have-i-ever-final-season.html

Title: She's Done With School (on TV, Anyway):   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 9, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2823849766

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shes-done-with-school-on-tv-anyway/docview/2823849766/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Dress Code Was 'Fly and Gay': [Society Desk]

Author: Sadiba Hasan

Publication info: Sadiba Hasan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dress-code-was-fly-gay/docview/2822019180/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: By talking frequently for the first year of the pandemic, Ahmad Maksoud and Josef Perou brought each other light in a dark time. Then they finally met.
Ahmad Maksoud and Josef Matthew Perou first met in March 2020, a time that was far from joyful. Both work as models and performers, and were similarly impacted by pandemic lockdowns. Cut off from performance work in their respective cities -- Mr. Maksoud in New York and Mr. Perou in London -- they were craving connection to their art communities.
That month, when a photographer they had both worked with posted an old photo of Mr. Perou on Instagram, Mr. Maksoud was entranced.
"In a way, he was someone that I kind of dreamed about already," Mr. Maksoud said. "I almost felt like I already had a connection to him in some kind of abstract way."
So he reached out to the photographer to find out who the model was.
"He was like, 'He lives in London. Don't get your hopes up or anything,"' Mr. Maksoud said.
When he sent Mr. Perou an Instagram DM, the two immediately bonded over their shared career interests. "My first thought was, 'This man is beautiful,"' Mr. Perou said. "I very quickly came to learn not only is he beautiful, he's also an absolute fool," meaning "kind and sweet and silly." He added, "'Hot fool' is my type."
They communicated frequently by text, phone or FaceTime, and a year later, as soon as Americans were allowed to travel to Britain, Mr. Maksoud booked an Airbnb in the Camden section of London so that they could quarantine together for a week and meet in person for the first time.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
They consider that whole week to be their first date, which included cooking, playing board games and going on walks. They also modeled together for a few virtual figure drawing sessions with different artists. Some of those artists even gifted the couple their drawings of the two of them from those sessions. "Now we have this catalog of our work of when we first met," Mr. Maksoud said.
In the two years that followed, they met up with each other in different cities, including Bregenz, Austria in July 2021. Mr. Maksoud went to visit Mr. Perou, who was living there that summer and playing a gorilla in Verdi's opera "Rigoletto" at Seebühne Bregenz.
In February 2023, while Mr. Perou was visiting New York, the couple had a "proposal day," Mr. Maksoud said. They went to the New York Public Library, and after visiting a few exhibits, they found a quiet corner and proposed to each other with matching rings by a large window.
"There were about five or six other people in the area, and it seemed to clear right as we were approaching it," Mr. Perou said about the corner at which they proposed to each other. "We were like, 'Oh, this is the spot,"' he added.
Mr. Perou, who was born and raised in Sussex, England, graduated from the Central School of Ballet with a bachelor's degree in professional dance and performance. He most recently spent five months puppeteering as Blue the Velociraptor at Jurassic World: The Exhibition in London.
Mr. Maksoud, who was born and raised in Boston, graduated from Northeastern University with a bachelor's degree in theater and psychology and from Harvard's American Repertory Theater Institute with an M.F.A. Last year, he acted in "On That Day in Amsterdam" at 59E59 Theaters.
In March, Mr. Perou moved into Mr. Maksoud's Harlem apartment on a tourist visa, and he is currently applying for a green card. Instead of registering for a honeymoon through a wedding registry, they decided to repurpose the concept. They used Honeyfund, a free gift registry, to help pay for immigration fees associated with Mr. Perou's relocation, such as lawyer fees and medical examinations.
On May 11, the couple was married at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau for a City Hall wedding officiated by Madeline Plasencia, a city clerk. That day, they wore fun, colorful outfits.
"We didn't want to wear formal black tuxes, we wanted to bring a little bit of spice," Mr. Maksoud said. "We wanted to be fly and gay."
They "got a lot of compliments from the security staff," Mr. Perou said.
Three friends served as witnesses. Afterward, they had dinner at Blue Smoke, followed by a bar hangout at Brass Monkey with 40 people.
"Everything was really casual," Mr. Maksoud said of the wedding day. "Even when we cried and even when it felt sentimental, everything just felt really light."
Photograph Ahmad Maksoud, Josef Perou (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SIDELL) This article appeared in print on page ST13.

Subject: Weddings; Pandemics

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/02/style/ahmad-maksoud-josef-perou-wedding.html

Title: The Dress Code Was 'Fly and Gay':   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 4, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2822019180

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dress-code-was-fly-gay/docview/2822019180/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Airbnb Sues New York City Over Limits On Rentals: [National Desk]

Author: Zaveri, Mihir

Publication info: Zaveri, Mihir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/airbnb-sues-new-york-city-over-limits-on-rentals/docview/2821526109/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Latest:
A yearslong conflict between Airbnb and New York City escalated on Thursday after the home-sharing platform sued the city to undo stringent new restrictions that limit short-term rentals.
A new law, passed by the city in 2021, sought to prevent illegal short-term rentals by requiring hosts to register with the city. Short-term rentals -- for fewer than 30 consecutive days -- have largely been barred if hosts are not present, according to state law, though the city and Airbnb have disagreed about how expansive such prohibitions and other complicated city codes should be.
The city said it would start enforcing the law in July.
In the lawsuit filed on Thursday, Airbnb called the new scheme "extreme and oppressive" and said it clashes with a federal law that has shielded many tech platforms from liability for content posted by its users. Three Airbnb hosts also filed similar lawsuits, arguing that the rules were so complicated that nearly all hosts, even those who intended to be present when guests were around, would be unable to use the platform.
The city said it was reviewing the lawsuit.
"This administration is committed to protecting safety and community livability for residents, preserving permanent housing stock, and ensuring our hospitality sector can continue to recover and thrive," Jonah Allon, a spokesman for the mayor, said in a statement.
Why It Matters: The lawsuit pits tourism against the housing crisis.
New York City remains one of Airbnb's most important markets. The platform said in the lawsuit that its net revenue in 2022 from short-term rentals in the city was $ 85 million; and as of Jan. 1, there were at least 38,500 active listings.
The platform asserts it is important to the city's tourism industry and helps residents earn supplemental income.
But with the city facing a dire housing shortage, short-term rentals have become a frequent target for local activists and politicians, who say many of the listings amount to "illegal hotels" that take affordable homes off the market. Influential groups associated with the hotel industry have also fought Airbnb and similar platforms.
The lawsuit may also be another flashpoint in the debate around a federal law, Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which has come under fire by some lawmakers who say it is too broad in the protections it provides technology companies. Airbnb said in the lawsuit that the city's rules improperly "seek to hold Airbnb liable in its role as a 'publisher' of posts by third parties" in violation of the law.
Online platforms like Airbnb must verify that a listing was properly registered with the city before collecting fees. Hosts could face penalties of up to $ 5,000 for violating the rules and Airbnb could face penalties of up to $ 1,500 for transactions involving rentals that were not properly verified.
Background: New York City and Airbnb are familiar opponents.
Existing rules on when hosts can offer short-term rentals are regularly flouted, which has prompted complaints from city officials, housing advocates and the hotel industry, who say Airbnb has not done enough to clamp down on illicit rentals.
In 2018, Airbnb sued after New York City tried to force it and other platforms to share more data about hosts, resulting in a settlement in June 2020.
The conflict is emblematic of how many cities across the nation have sought to regulate similar online platforms. Many have turned to registration schemes similar to the one in New York City with apparent success: Data shows a modest to significant decrease in the number of listings after such a scheme went into effect in Santa Monica, Boston and San Francisco.
What's next: The city may fight back, or not.
Litigation in other places may foreshadow what happens in New York.
A legal challenge brought by Airbnb against Santa Monica over its registration scheme resulted in a settlement with the city in 2019. And this year, officials in Santa Monica have begun looking at expanding the ability of hosts to list rentals on the platform.
This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Fines & penalties; Rentals; Tourism; Affordable housing; Litigation; Telecommunications policy

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.ny times.com/2023/06/01/nyregion/airbnb-sues-nyc-rentals.html

Title: Airbnb Sues New York City Over Limits On Rentals:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 2, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821526109

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/airbnb-sues-new-york-city-over-limits-on-rentals/docview/2821526109/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Testing New York Apartments To Measure Risk of Gas Stoves: [National Desk]

Author: Tabuchi, Hiroko

Publication info: Tabuchi, Hiroko. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/testing-new-york-apartments-measure-risk-gas/docview/2820873867/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Scientists are lugging sophisticated sensors into homes in 10 cities to measure and track the pollution from gas stoves as it drifts from room to room.
Every morning, as millions of Americans light up the gas stoves in their kitchens to heat some water or griddle their hash browns, they aren't just sending delicious breakfast smells wafting through their homes. The blue flames also emit harmful pollutants like nitrogen dioxides, as well as planet-warming gases.
So a team of scientists from Stanford recently embarked on a testing tour of New York City apartments to better understand the extent of the pollution and how it flows from room to room in people's real homes. It's part of a 10-city study that is already showing how contaminants can quickly drift into living rooms and bedrooms, sometimes far beyond the stoves that created them.
Concerns over the health and climate effects of gas-burning stoves have already prompted some cities and states to seek to phase out natural gas connections in new buildings, and the federal government has also moved to strengthen efficiency standards for gas stoves. But the issue has become a polarizing one. Last week in Washington, Republicans convened a hearing of the House Oversight Committee "examining the Biden administration's regulatory assault on Americans' gas stoves."
On a crisp Sunday morning, the Stanford scientists made their first stop in New York City: a public-housing project in Morningside Heights in Upper Manhattan. Their first challenge: hauling 300 pounds of equipment to the 18th floor. "Hope there's an elevator," Rob Jackson, a professor at the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability and the team's leader, said warily. (There was.)
The three-bedroom apartment they were visiting -- home to Tina Johnson, a mother to three adult children -- overlooks elevated train tracks and has an eat-in kitchen filled with the aromas of herbs and spices that she uses to make her favorite dish, an American-style ratatouille. Mrs. Johnson had just cooked a breakfast of fried eggs and potatoes.
"I'm glad you're here," she told the researchers. A new stove had just been installed in her unit, but she still "can't stand the smell" of the gas from it, she said. She had volunteered to participate in the study through a local climate group, Mrs. Johnson said, because she and her children have asthma and other health problems; she was eager to know what their stove did to the air they breathed.
Nose-High Tubes
The researchers got to work powering up their analyzers and setting up tubes, at roughly nose height, to pull in samples of air. After they took background readings, it was time to turn on the gas, a single small burner on high.
The machinery quickly detected the change: a rise in concentrations of nitrogen dioxide -- which, among other negative health effects, can irritate the respiratory system, aggravate symptoms of respiratory diseases and contribute to asthma. Concentrations climbed to 500 parts per billion, five times the safety benchmark for one-hour exposures set by the Environmental Protection Agency. (Concentrations of benzene, a human carcinogen that is present in cigarette smoke and car emissions, also tripled.)
This was with the kitchen doorway sealed off and the window closed, too. Mrs. Johnson's kitchen also lacks a stove hood, which could help with ventilation.
Opening the kitchen entrance and cracking open the window, as Mrs. Johnson said she often did while cooking, brought nitrogen dioxide levels down to about 200 parts per billion. But that also meant fumes from the stove were now seeping into the rest of the apartment.
In one bedroom, nitrogen dioxide concentrations reached about 70 parts per billion, below the E.P.A. threshold but significantly above the World Health Organization's standards for chronic exposure.
There has been mounting scientific evidence of the health risks of gas stoves. One paper published late last year found that gas stoves may be linked to nearly 13 percent of childhood cases of asthma in the United States. Previous research shows that gas stoves have led to more exacerbated asthma symptoms as well.
There are a few simple steps that people can take to reduce the danger, such as opening the windows and buying an air purifier.
One characteristic of New York residences, Dr. Jackson later said, is that people tend to go about their lives at home -- working, relaxing, sleeping -- far closer to the gas stove than those in a suburban setting. In all, he said, "the biggest surprise for me has been just how high concentrations get, but also how quickly the pollutants spread around the home."
'Dinner Party Scenario'
The next day, the team was back testing at another location, this time at an Airbnb apartment in Central Harlem. Their goal: recreate a "big family or dinner party scenario," said Yannai Kashtan, a Ph.D. candidate in earth system science at Stanford and a member of the research team.
To limit their own exposure, the team members camped out on a balcony, with sweeping views of Upper Manhattan, holding their breath and running in and out to check on levels.
In the course of about 40 minutes, levels of nitrogen dioxide topped 200 parts per billion in the living room, 300 parts per billion in the bedroom and 400 parts per billion in the kitchen, or double, triple and quadruple thresholds set by the E.P.A. for one-hour exposures. Benzene concentrations also tripled after the stove was turned on.
This stove came with a hood. "But feel this," Mr. Kashtan said, his hand in a stream of hot air that was blowing out from the hood's edge instead of venting outdoors. That meant the hood "doesn't make much difference" to the bad air, he said.
In all, the team conducted daylong testing at eight New York City apartments, including a Brooklyn home where the researchers puzzled over a New York peculiarity: windows sealed with plastic. That was for insulation, said Nina Domingo, who lives in the ground-floor unit with two housemates. But it also meant poor ventilation, which was alarming, given that the kitchen also lacked a hood that vented to the outside.
In the immediate kitchen area, nitrogen dioxide concentrations quickly rose to about 2.5 times the E.P.A. threshold.
The team's results are preliminary, but they are in line with a body of scientific research that has linked gas stove emissions to harmful pollution affecting both climate change and public health. Previous research has also shown that emissions continue to be released when a stove is turned off because stoves can leak natural gas, which is mostly methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
Ms. Domingo, who works in technology, said she was aware of the concerns over pollution from stoves, and her previous apartment had, in fact, come with an electric induction stove, a particularly efficient design. But when she decided to upgrade to a larger home last summer, competition for apartment units was so fierce that she "couldn't be picky," she said.
Change could be on the horizon.
More than 60 percent of American households already use electricity to cook, and the Biden administration has proposed to expand gas stove efficiency rules, with an estimated $ 100 million in energy savings for people on top of the climate and health benefits. Several cities in mostly blue states have passed or considered bans on new gas hookups, effectively requiring electric cooking and heating in new construction, though some red states have moved to pre-empt such bans.
The Stanford team, which has already tested stoves in cities including San Francisco; Denver; Houston; and Melbourne, Australia, is heading to Washington next. It also plans to test in Europe and Asia.
What do they expect to find in Asian cities? Even smaller living spaces, which could mean higher concentrations of pollutants, and more exposure. It's a global problem, they said. Just how bad a problem, they're about to find out.
Photograph A team of scientists from Stanford testing an apartment in Brooklyn for gas stove emissions. Some cities and states are seeking to phase out gas connections in new buildings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALLA KESSLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: Pollutants; Hydrocarbons; Gases; Emissions; Apartments; Ovens & stoves; Nitrogen dioxide; Climate change; Ventilation; Natural gas; Indoor air quality; Methane; Sensors; Cities

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: Stanford University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/30/climate/gas-stove-pollution-danger.html

Title: Testing New York Apartments To Measure Risk of Gas Stoves:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 31, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820873867

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/testing -new-york-apartments-measure-risk-gas/docview/2820873867/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Testing New York Apartments: How Dirty Is That Gas Stove, Really?

Author: Tabuchi, Hiroko

Publication info: Tabuchi, Hiroko. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/testing-new-york-apartments-how-dirty-is-that-gas/docview/2820797831/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Every morning, as millions of Americans light up the gas stoves in their kitchens to heat some water or griddle their hash browns, they aren’t just sending delicious breakfast smells wafting through their homes. The blue flames also emit harmful pollutants like nitrogen dioxides, as well as planet-warming gases.
So a team of scientists from Stanford University recently embarked on a testing tour of New York City apartments to better understand the extent of the pollution and how it flows from room to room in people’s real homes. It’s part of a 10-city study that is already showing how contaminants can quickly drift into living rooms and bedrooms, sometimes far beyond the stoves that created them.
Concerns over the health and climate effects of gas-burning stoves have already prompted some cities and states to seek to phase out natural gas connections in new buildings, and the federal government has also moved to strengthen efficiency standards for gas stoves. But the issue has become a polarizing one. Last week in Washington, Republicans convened a hearing of the House Oversight Committee “examining the Biden administration’s regulatory assault on Americans’ gas stoves.”
On a crisp Sunday morning, the Stanford scientists made their first stop in New York City: a public housing project in Morningside Heights in upper Manhattan. Their first challenge: hauling 300 pounds of equipment to the 18th floor. “Hope there’s an elevator,” Rob Jackson, a professor at the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability and the team’s leader, said warily. (There was.)
The three-bedroom apartment they were visiting — home to Tina Johnson, a mother to three adult children — overlooks elevated train tracks and has an eat-in kitchen filled with the aromas of herbs and spices that she uses to make her favorite dish, an American-style ratatouille. Johnson had just cooked a breakfast of fried eggs and potatoes.
“I’m glad you’re here,” she told the researchers. A new stove had just been installed in her unit, but she still “can’t stand the smell” of the gas from it, she said. She had volunteered to participate in the study through a local climate group, Johnson said, because she and her children have asthma and other health problems; she was eager to know what their stove did to the air they breathed.
Nose-High Tubes
The researchers got to work powering up their analyzers and setting up tubes, at roughly nose height, to pull in samples of air. After they took background readings, it was time to turn on the gas, a single small burner on high.
The machinery quickly detected the change: a rise in concentrations of nitrogen dioxide — which, among other negative health effects, can irritate the respiratory system, aggravate symptoms of respiratory diseases and contribute to asthma. Concentrations climbed to 500 parts per billion, five times the safety benchmark for one-hour exposures set by the Environmental Protection Agency. (Concentrations of benzene, a human carcinogen that is present in cigarette smoke and car emissions, also tripled.)
This was with the kitchen doorway sealed off and the window closed, too. Johnson’s kitchen also lacks a stove hood, which could help with ventilation.
Opening the kitchen entrance and cracking open the window, as Johnson said she often did while cooking, brought nitrogen dioxide levels down to about 200 parts per billion. But that also meant fumes from the stove were now seeping into the rest of the apartment.
In one bedroom, nitrogen dioxide concentrations reached about 70 parts per billion, below the EPA threshold but significantly above the World Health Organization’s standards for chronic exposure.
There has been mounting scientific evidence of the health risks of gas stoves. One paper published late last year found that gas stoves may be linked to nearly 13% of childhood cases of asthma in the United States. Previous research shows that gas stoves have led to more exacerbated asthma symptoms as well.
There are a few simple steps that people can take to reduce the danger, such as opening the windows and buying an air purifier.
One characteristic of New York residences, Jackson later said, is that people tend to go about their lives at home — working, relaxing, sleeping — far closer to the gas stove than those in a suburban setting. In all, he said, “the biggest surprise for me has been just how high concentrations get, but also how quickly the pollutants spread around the home.”
‘Dinner Party Scenario’
The next day, the team was back testing at another location, this time at an Airbnb apartment in Central Harlem. Their goal: re-create a “big family or dinner party scenario,” said Yannai Kashtan, a doctoral candidate in earth system science at Stanford and a member of the research team.
To limit their own exposure, the team members camped out on a balcony, with sweeping views of upper Manhattan, holding their breath and running in and out to check on levels.
In the course of about 40 minutes, levels of nitrogen dioxide topped 200 parts per billion in the living room, 300 parts per billion in the bedroom and 400 parts per billion in the kitchen, or double, triple and quadruple thresholds set by the EPA for one-hour exposures. Benzene concentrations also tripled after the stove was turned on.
This stove came with a hood. “But feel this,” Kashtan said, his hand in a stream of hot air that was blowing out from the hood’s edge instead of venting outdoors. That meant the hood “doesn’t make much difference” to the bad air, he said.
In all, the team conducted daylong testing at eight New York City apartments, including a Brooklyn home where the researchers puzzled over a New York peculiarity: windows sealed with plastic. That was for insulation, said Nina Domingo, who lives in the ground-floor unit with two housemates. But it also meant poor ventilation, which was alarming, given that the kitchen also lacked a hood that vented to the outside.
In the immediate kitchen area, nitrogen dioxide concentrations quickly rose to about 2.5 times the EPA threshold.
The team’s results are preliminary, but they are in line with a body of scientific research that has linked gas stove emissions to harmful pollution affecting both climate change and public health. Previous research has also shown that emissions continue to be released when a stove is turned off because stoves can leak natural gas, which is mostly methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
Domingo, who works in technology, said she was aware of the concerns over pollution from stoves, and her previous apartment had, in fact, come with an electric induction stove, a particularly efficient design. But when she decided to upgrade to a larger home last summer, competition for apartment units was so fierce that she “couldn’t be picky,” she said.
Change could be on the horizon.
More than 60% of American households already use electricity to cook, and the Biden administration has proposed to expand gas stove efficiency rules, with an estimated $100 million in energy savings for people on top of the climate and health benefits. Several cities in mostly blue states have passed or considered bans on new gas hookups, effectively requiring electric cooking and heating in new construction, though some red states have moved to preempt such bans.
The Stanford team, which has already tested stoves in cities including San Francisco; Denver; Houston; and Melbourne, Australia, is heading to Washington next. It also plans to test in Europe and Asia.
What do they expect to find in Asian cities? Even smaller living spaces, which could mean higher concentrations of pollutants, and more exposure. It’s a global problem, they said. Just how bad a problem, they’re about to find out.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Pollutants; Asthma; Hydrocarbons; Gases; Apartments; Emissions; Air pollution; Ovens & stoves; Outdoor air quality; Nitrogen dioxide; Ventilation; Climate change; Cities; Natural gas

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Environmental Pro tection Agency--EPA; NAICS: 924110

Identifier / keyword: Houston (Tex); Energy Efficiency; Tests And Examinations; Asthma; Hazardous And Toxic Substances; Fuel Efficiency; Cooking And Cookbooks; Australia; Windows; Parties (Social); New York City; Air Pollution; Melbourne (Australia); United States; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Ovens And Stoves; Airbnb; Elections; Tabuchi, Hiroko; Smells And Odors; Consumer Protection; Europe; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Brooklyn (Nyc); Kitchens; Environmental Protection Agency; Sustainability (Journal); Pollution; United States Politics And Government; Research; Global Warming; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; San Francisco (Calif); Natural Gas; Home Repairs And Improvements; World Health Organization; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Republican Party; Stanford University; Public And Subsidized Housing; Respiratory Diseases; Morningside Heights (Manhattan, Ny); Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Manhattan (Nyc); Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Testing New York Apartments: How Dirty Is That Gas Stove, Really?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 31, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-31T00:30:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820797831

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/testing-new-york-apartments-how-dirty-is-that-gas/docview/2820797831/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Testing New York Apartments: How Dirty Is That Gas Stove, Really?

Author: Tabuchi, Hiroko

Publication info: Tabuchi, Hiroko. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/testing-new-york-apartments-how-dirty-is-that-gas/docview/2820689873/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Every morning, as millions of Americans light up the gas stoves in their kitchens to heat some coffee or griddle their hash browns, they aren’t just sending delicious breakfast smells wafting through their homes. The blue flames also emit harmful pollutants like nitrogen dioxides, as well as planet-warming gases.
So a team of scientists from Stanford University recently embarked on a testing tour of New York City apartments to better understand the extent of the pollution and how it flows from room to room in people’s real homes. It’s part of a 10-city study that is already showing how contaminants can quickly drift into living rooms and bedrooms, sometimes far beyond the stoves that created them.
Concerns over the health and climate effects of gas-burning stoves have already prompted some cities and states to seek to phase out natural gas connections in new buildings, and the federal government has also moved to strengthen efficiency standards for gas stoves. But the issue has become a polarizing one. Last week in Washington, Republicans convened a hearing of the House Oversight Committee “examining the Biden administration’s regulatory assault on Americans’ gas stoves.”
On a crisp Sunday morning, the Stanford scientists made their first stop in New York City: a public housing project in Morningside Heights in upper Manhattan. Their first challenge: hauling 300 pounds of equipment to the 18th floor. “Hope there’s an elevator,” Rob Jackson, a professor at the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability and the team’s leader, said warily. (There was.)
The three-bedroom apartment they were visiting — home to Tina Johnson, a mother to three adult children — overlooks elevated train tracks and has an eat-in kitchen filled with the aromas of herbs and spices that she uses to make her favorite dish, an American-style ratatouille. Johnson had just cooked a breakfast of fried eggs and potatoes.
“I’m glad you’re here,” she told the researchers. A new stove had just been installed in her unit, but she still “can’t stand the smell” of the gas from it, she said. She had volunteered to participate in the study through a local climate group, Johnson said, because she and her children have asthma and other health problems; she was eager to know what their stove did to the air they breathed.
Nose-High Tubes
The researchers got to work powering up their analyzers and setting up tubes, at roughly nose height, to pull in samples of air. After they took background readings, it was time to turn on the gas, a single small burner on high.
The machinery quickly detected the change: a rise in concentrations of nitrogen dioxide — which, among other negative health effects, can irritate the respiratory system, aggravate symptoms of respiratory diseases and contribute to asthma. Concentrations climbed to 500 parts per billion, five times the safety benchmark for one-hour exposures set by the Environmental Protection Agency. (Concentrations of benzene, a human carcinogen that is present in cigarette smoke and car emissions, also tripled.)
This was with the kitchen doorway sealed off and the window closed, too. Johnson’s kitchen also lacks a stove hood, which could help with ventilation.
Opening the kitchen entrance and cracking open the window, as Johnson said she often did while cooking, brought nitrogen dioxide levels down to about 200 parts per billion. But that also meant fumes from the stove were now seeping into the rest of the apartment.
In one bedroom, nitrogen dioxide concentrations reached about 70 parts per billion, below the EPA threshold but significantly above the World Health Organization’s standards for chronic exposure.
There has been mounting scientific evidence of the health risks of gas stoves. One paper published late last year found that gas stoves may be linked to nearly 13% of childhood cases of asthma in the United States. Previous research shows that gas stoves have led to more exacerbated asthma symptoms as well.
There are a few simple steps that people can take to reduce the danger, such as opening the windows and buying an air purifier.
One characteristic of New York residences, Jackson later said, is that people tend to go about their lives at home — working, relaxing, sleeping — far closer to the gas stove than those in a suburban setting. In all, he said, “the biggest surprise for me has been just how high concentrations get, but also how quickly the pollutants spread around the home.”
‘Dinner Party Scenario’
The next day, the team was back testing at another location, this time at an Airbnb apartment in Central Harlem. Their goal: re-create a “big family or dinner party scenario,” said Yannai Kashtan, a doctoral candidate in earth system science at Stanford and a member of the research team.
To limit their own exposure, the team members camped out on a balcony, with sweeping views of upper Manhattan, holding their breath and running in and out to check on levels.
In the course of about 40 minutes, levels of nitrogen dioxide topped 200 parts per billion in the living room, 300 parts per billion in the bedroom and 400 parts per billion in the kitchen, or double, triple and quadruple thresholds set by the EPA for one-hour exposures. Benzene concentrations also tripled after the stove was turned on.
This stove came with a hood. “But feel this,” Kashtan said, his hand in a stream of hot air that was blowing out from the hood’s edge instead of venting outdoors. That meant the hood “doesn’t make much difference” to the bad air, he said.
In all, the team conducted daylong testing at eight New York City apartments, including a Brooklyn home where the researchers puzzled over a New York peculiarity: windows sealed with plastic. That was for insulation, said Nina Domingo, who lives in the ground-floor unit with two housemates. But it also meant poor ventilation, which was alarming, given that the kitchen also lacked a hood that vented to the outside.
In the immediate kitchen area, nitrogen dioxide concentrations quickly rose to about 2.5 times the EPA threshold.
The team’s results are preliminary, but they are in line with a body of scientific research that has linked gas stove emissions to harmful pollution affecting both climate change and public health. Previous research has also shown that emissions continue to be released when a stove is turned off because stoves can leak natural gas, which is mostly methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
Domingo, who works in technology, said she was aware of the concerns over pollution from stoves, and her previous apartment had, in fact, come with an electric induction stove, a particularly efficient design. But when she decided to upgrade to a larger home last summer, competition for apartment units was so fierce that she “couldn’t be picky,” she said.
Change could be on the horizon.
More than 60% of American households already use electricity to cook, and the Biden administration has proposed to expand gas stove efficiency rules, with an estimated $100 million in energy savings for people on top of the climate and health benefits. Several cities in mostly blue states have passed or considered bans on new gas hookups, effectively requiring electric cooking and heating in new construction, though some red states have moved to preempt such bans.
The Stanford team, which has already tested stoves in cities including San Francisco; Denver; Houston; and Melbourne, Australia, is heading to Washington next. It also plans to test in Europe and Asia.
What do they expect to find in Asian cities? Even smaller living spaces, which could mean higher concentrations of pollutants, and more exposure. It’s a global problem, they said. Just how bad a problem, they’re about to find out.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Pollutants; Hydrocarbons; Asthma; Gases; Emissions; Apartments; Air pollution; Ovens & stoves; Outdoor air quality; Nitrogen dioxide; Climate change; Ventilation; Cities; Natural gas

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Environmental Pro tection Agency--EPA; NAICS: 924110

Identifier / keyword: Houston (Tex); Energy Efficiency; Tests And Examinations; Asthma; Hazardous And Toxic Substances; Fuel Efficiency; Cooking And Cookbooks; Australia; Windows; Parties (Social); New York City; Air Pollution; Melbourne (Australia); United States; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Ovens And Stoves; Airbnb; Elections; Tabuchi, Hiroko; Smells And Odors; Consumer Protection; Europe; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Brooklyn (Nyc); Kitchens; Environmental Protection Agency; Sustainability (Journal); Pollution; United States Politics And Government; Research; Global Warming; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; San Francisco (Calif); Natural Gas; Home Repairs And Improvements; World Health Organization; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Republican Party; Stanford University; Public And Subsidized Housing; Respiratory Diseases; Morningside Heights (Manhattan, Ny); Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Manhattan (Nyc); Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Testing New York Apartments: How Dirty Is That Gas Stove, Really?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-30T21:47:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820689873

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/testing-new-york-apartments-how-dirty-is-that-gas/docview/2820689873/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Their Union Felt Like 'a Love Letter to Black Culture': [Society Desk]

Author: Sadiba Hasan

Publication info: Sadiba Hasan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/their-union-felt-like-love-letter-black-culture/docview/2819788975/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tristan Thompson and Tyla Wade's passion for their community was the inspiration for their podcast "Black Love is Resistance" and their wedding celebration that featured mostly Black vendors.
"Black love is a form of resistance."
The phrase became a mantra for Tristan St. John Thompson, who is an academic and culture dean at Dream Charter High School in the South Bronx.
He frequently talks about "places of resistance" with the students "who look like me and are from where I'm from," said Mr. Thompson, 31, who was born and raised in the Bronx. "Even education is a form of resistance in a world that is sometimes telling you that you aren't enough and you aren't doing enough."
As his relationship with Tyla Jenel Wade, 29, developed, he began seeing their love, too, as a form of resistance.
"We are going to do whatever we have to in order to make sure that we support each other and the people around us," Mr. Thompson said.
In December 2021, the couple decided to make a podcast together about Black love, music and art through the lens of two millennials. When they were thinking of a name for the podcast, a friend joked that they should name it "Black love is a form of resistance."
"I was like, 'Yes! It is!"' Mr. Thompson said. He and Ms. Wade, an associate director of multicultural marketing at Horizon Media, an advertising agency in New York, ultimately named their podcast "Black Love Is Resistance."
The two first met in January 2015 at a bar near Grand Central Terminal. Ms. Wade's best friend, Kidan Kinney, invited her to a gathering with several former students of the Posse Foundation, a nonprofit organization that provides scholarships to high school students in the U.S. Both Ms. Kinney and Mr. Thompson are Posse scholars.
When Ms. Wade walked into the bar, another one of the Posse scholars sat her next to Mr. Thompson because she thought the two would be a good romantic match. But both were in relationships at the time. It was "awkward and uncomfortable," Ms. Wade said, and they left the bar without thinking about the other.
But on Sept. 5, 2015, they crossed paths again at a pregame event at a mutual friend's apartment in Philadelphia before the Made in America festival, where Beyoncé and J. Cole were performing. This time, the two, each now single, hit it off.
"She had me dying of laughter," Mr. Thompson said. "Even though it was packed, it just felt like it was only Tyla and me in that room."
It just so happened to also be Mr. Thompson's 24th birthday, and his friends had planned a surprise birthday celebration. In the middle of Mr. Thompson and Ms. Wade's conversation, his friends started singing "Happy Birthday" by Stevie Wonder, while walking toward them with a cake.
"We were surrounded by 20 plus people singing, and I was standing next to him with cameras in my face awkwardly smiling and also singing 'happy 24th birthday' to my future husband," Ms. Wade said.
When they arrived at the festival later that day, they were attached at the hip. When their friend group started splitting up after a performance by the rapper Future, she asked him if he wanted to go see De La Soul, a hip-hop group formed in 1988.
Mr. Thompson, a lover of '90s hip-hop, was impressed by the suggestion.
After the festival, Mr. Thompson went back to Jacksonville, Fla., where he lived at the time for a job as a high school English teacher with Teach for America. Ms. Wade had just graduated from Assumption University with a bachelor's degree in mass communications and marketing and was living with her family in Staten Island, where she is from. Mr. Thompson graduated from Lafayette College with a bachelor's degree in philosophy.
They both had just gotten out of serious relationships when they connected at the music festival, but she wasn't ready to jump into a relationship with Mr. Thompson and risk bringing any baggage. She wanted to take her time with him and develop more of a friendship. What followed for the next year and three months was a slow burn toward romance.
They saw each other whenever he traveled to New York to visit family. In October 2015, they went to see a play called "Barbecue" at the Public Theater for what Mr. Thompson considers to be their first date. "It was two friends who like each other's company hanging out," Ms. Wade said. (She said they started dating in December 2016, when they had their first kiss.)
Despite being from New York, Mr. Thompson got lost on his way to the play and showed up after the intermission. "The entire M.T.A. was working against me," he said. "He still can't take the train by himself," she said playfully in response.
After the show, they went to a street fair and bought their first vinyls together, which included "Rapture" by Anita Baker and "The Birth of a Legend" by Bob Marley and the Wailers. Now they have 72 vinyls in their joint collection.
"That first date consisted of music, food and exploration," he said. "After that, every other date kind of followed that same formula."
In June 2016, Mr. Thompson moved to New York. "He immediately was like, 'What are we doing?' And I was like, 'We're continuing a friendship,"' she said. That fall, he said he would start dating other people. "Tristan was definitely getting tired of me prolonging it, so he applied the pressure," she said. And it worked.
On Dec. 2, 2016, they had their first kiss at a friend's birthday party. And on Dec. 31, 2016, right before the ball dropped at midnight, he asked her, "Will you be my girlfriend?" at Troy Liquor Bar in New York. At the first minute of the new year, she responded, "Of course."
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
They moved in together in an apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, in March 2020. Currently, they are staying in Mount Vernon, N.Y., with Mr. Thompson's family.
Both value community and the celebration of Black culture, and in January 2020, they started a group called the Legacy Network. The group consists of eight people -- four couples, all of whom are now married -- to discuss wellness, social justice and entrepreneurship.
In April 2021, the group had a summit at an Airbnb in Danbury, Conn., where the members spoke about their goals and their vision for the future.
Mr. Thompson had been trying to come up with the perfect proposal, but during the summit, he shifted gears. "I was basically saying to myself, 'You're having all of these conversations about the future, and your future includes Tyla every step of the way,"' he said. "'Why are you waiting for some grandiose moment to ask her to be your wife?"'
Though he didn't have a ring, he decided he would propose during the summit. At the end of the trip, as they were packing, his best friend told Ms. Wade that Mr. Thompson had lost something and needed help finding it. So she helped him look for the lost item, until she came across a wall on which they had been sticking Post-it Notes with ideas and goals. There was one Post-it Note left. She grabbed it and read it: "Tyla, will you marry me?" Mr. Thompson was behind her, on one knee.
Within the next week, he got her a diamond ring.
On April 23, the couple wed at the New Orleans Botanical Garden. The Rev. Richard Griffiths, a minister of Bronx Bethany Church of the Nazarene, officiated.
"It was important to us to bring the 166 people that RSVP'd 'yes' to an experience that will honor their Blackness," said Ms. Wade, who added that she wanted to create a safe space where their guests could "be who they are, eat the food they enjoy and listen to the music they enjoy."
During the ceremony, guests sat in chairs arranged in a circle that surrounded the couple, who stood on a circular stage, to "signify our love being fluid and endless," Ms. Wade said.
The couple also sat in wicker rattan chairs and recreated a photo of Huey P. Newton, who helped found the Black Panther Party, sitting on a rattan chair. "We look like royalty in those chairs," she said.
"It was a love letter to Black culture, it was a love letter to our community," Mr. Thompson said of their wedding, "and it was a love letter to each other."
On This Day
When April 23, 2023
Where New Orleans Botanical Garden
Who's on the Aux? There were four DJs at the reception; each played different genres of music: house, hip-hop, New Orleans bounce and soca and reggae. Three of The DJs were Mr. Thompson's longtime friends. "When they first started DJing in college, I was the one that was carrying their equipment," he said. "To see their love for their music grow in a way that they were able to make a living out of this thing, and to have them DJ at our wedding, it just came full circle."
Musical Medley Cotton Melody Choir performed an eight-song medley, arranged by the couple, as everyone walked into the ceremony. "People were sobbing, crying, everyone was singing together," Ms. Wade said. "The rest of the night, we felt like one big family." The medley began with "Joyful, Joyful," by Lauryn Hill. They both processed out to songs by Chance the Rapper, he chose "Blessings" and she chose "How Great." The couple also hired a brass band that played during the final hour of the wedding.
Buying Black The couple allotted 35 percent of their wedding budget to Black-owned businesses. One of them was Johnny Nelson, a New York artist who makes rings with the faces of famous Black people. Mr. Nelson made Mr. Thompson two cuff links. One was of Martin Luther King Jr., and the other was of Malcolm X. Ms. Wade wore earrings from L'enchanteur and a purse from Brandon Blackwood that says "End systemic racism." And they both wore stylized grills by Underground Grillz. Ms. Wade said that guests told them, "'This is the blackest wedding I've ever been to."' Mr. Thompson responded, "That was the point."
Photograph Tristan Thompson and Tyla Wade at their April 23 wedding in New Orleans. The bride described their love as "being fluid and endless." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEVONTE WILLIFORD/RARE SIGHTING PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST13.

ERIC Subject: High School Students; African American Culture; Music; Alternative Teacher Certification; Singing; Community Relations; Literary Genres

Subject: Weddings; Music; Students; Friendship; Black culture; Birthdays; Secondary schools; Love; Hip hop culture; Festivals

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/26/style/tristan-thompson-tyla-wade-wedding.html

Title: Their Union Felt Like 'a Love Letter to Black Culture':   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 28, 2023

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819788975

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/their-union-felt-like-love-letter-black-culture/docview/2819788975/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Living in a Resort Town, but Just Getting By: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Gibson, D W

Publication info: Gibson, D W. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/living-resort-town-just-getting/docview/2819788945/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The housing market remains way out of reach for locals who want to live, work and raise a family in their hometowns.
Robyn Diederiks-Henderson grew up in Montauk, N.Y., waiting tables at her mom's restaurants. Her longtime boyfriend and husband of two years, Dylan Henderson, was born and raised down the road in Southampton.
But birthrights get you only so far in Long Island's most famous resort towns.
"Because we weren't born into money," Mr. Henderson said, "it feels like breaking into the billionaire's club. It can be disheartening to live in Southampton, to have been born and raised here and feel like there's not a space for you anymore."
After they met and decided to live together, the couple shared their first home with roommates. In their mid-20s they couldn't find any place to live and had to move in with Mr. Henderson's mother.
They saved and eventually found a two-bedroom apartment they could afford on 27East.com, a news and classifieds website for the Hamptons. They've kept the place for four years now -- and even managed to negotiate a rent reduction during the pandemic. But they moved in when it was just them and their oldest son -- Remington, 12 -- and two years ago their second son, Charlie, came along.
"The walls are slowly shrinking," Ms. Diederiks-Henderson said, laughing. "Because we're growing."
While they're grateful to have housing at all, their current living conditions aren't sustainable. "It's not an ideal situation," she said. "We're on a main road and our kids can't play outside, we don't have laundry and the baby sleeps in our room. Normally you would move on, into a bigger home to accommodate your family, but we're not able to do that because of the rent in our area."
The couple are willing to look for places farther away, places that could make their commutes an hour or longer, but there are meaningful attachments to the immediate community where they've lived for the past four years.
"My son's autistic and the school here is extremely important to us," Ms. Diederiks-Henderson said. "Keeping him here where he's gone to school his entire life is important."
The Southampton Union Free School District "is incredible," she added. "They've done pretty much anything we've ever asked of them."
Both Mr. Henderson and Ms. Diederiks-Henderson bring an entrepreneurial spirit to their community. She runs Robyn's Kitchen, a personal chef business, and he runs Finesse Athletics, a personal training business.
"I've been training for eight years," Mr. Henderson said. "During the pandemic, the gyms were shutting down and I had the knowledge."
He decided to start his business. "It was really, really scary," he said.
$ 1,500 | Southampton, N.Y.
Robyn Diederiks-Henderson, 32; Dylan Henderson, 31
Occupation: She is a personal chef, and he is a personal trainer.
On entrepreneurship: Ms. Diederiks-Henderson was waiting on tables at a luncheonette when a customer asked if she would help serve a dinner party. She arrived 30 minutes before the dinner, and the client was overwhelmed. "I ended up cooking a dinner party for the first time in my life," she said. "Someone at that party called me the next day to ask if I could cook for their family for the summer. They offered me more money than I ever thought was possible to make cooking. And that's when it occurred to me, 'Oh, I can actually make a living out of this."'
On sobriety: Ms. Diederiks-Henderson and Mr. Henderson got sober together a few years into their relationship. "We figured out how to be real people together," Ms. Diederiks-Henderson said. "We were pretty major alcoholics and drug addicts, and we didn't know who we were yet. I found myself in cooking, and he found himself in fitness. Now I know that fear is not a word in my vocabulary. Life's all lessons. That's something I've learned through sobriety." Mr. Henderson and his wife maintain a steady roster of clients. But their workflow mirrors the seasonal flow of summer visitors to Southampton.
"If I was able to make summertime money year-round I would -- perhaps -- be able to afford a home here," Mr. Henderson said. "But because it's such an ebb and flow, it makes it really difficult. We live with a lot of financial insecurity."
There is a fundamental conundrum that comes with keeping roots in a major tourist destination: The influx of visitors that provides income is the same influx that makes the cost of housing so out of reach.
"There's a tension in the summer between visitors and people who live here," Ms. Diederiks-Henderson said. "We just don't have the resources for that amount of people. It still blows my mind that people are still allowed to build on new land out here."
She remembers growing up, when she and her friends would make fun of people from Manhattan. "We would say 'citi-diots.' That was just an ignorant term we'd use as teenagers. The crazy thing is when I look back at how things were then in terms of visitors, it was nothing compared to what it is now. At the same time, I'm an adult now and I see people as people, not as objects. So the tension that exists out here isn't necessarily with the people but with the lack of resources. There's a little bit of bitterness."
It can be isolating, carrying this bitterness while immersed in the seasonal wealth of the town. "All of my clients are well off," Mr. Henderson said. "Everyone I come into contact with, business-wise, has enough money to hire a personal trainer, so they don't have the fear and insecurity when it comes to housing. They're the ones who are coming here and buying the homes. That's why I have a difficult time with these dynamics."
He and his wife both remember homes from their childhood neighborhoods that sold for around $ 100,000 and now routinely hit the market for millions. Ms. Diederiks-Henderson marveled at a trailer in Montauk that recently sold for $ 3.75 million.
"My best friend grew up in that trailer park, and I remember making fun of the kids who lived there -- being the high and mighty third grader that I was," she said, laughing. "But now people can't afford to live there. That's the whole point of a trailer park! You're supposed to be able to afford it."
When the couple have looked for a bigger apartment or a house to rent, they haven't been able to find anything workable for less than $ 12,000 a month. "Pay anything less," Mr. Henderson said, "and you're getting a shoe box. That's for a yearlong lease. If people do summer rentals they can get $ 100,000 a month, depending on the location. So, it really messes up the whole market. Airbnb destroyed year-round renting. If you can get $ 1,500 or $ 3,000 a night, you're going to do it."
Ms. Diederiks-Henderson said her husband harbors a fantasy that they'll meet an older couple who will sell them a house at a favorable price because they want to prioritize selling to a local family. "Why would they do that?" she said. "That's not the kind of world we live in. Why would they not try to make as much money as possible? We're not taught to do the right thing. We're taught to make as much money as possible."
She says that during the off-season she can't help but notice how many houses sit empty, unused. "I heard recently that about 30 percent of the houses out here are occupied year-round," she said. "There's all of us, struggling to live out here. We're the people who cook, who clean, who provide services, who look after this place. There's no place for us, and we're surrounded by all these empty houses." For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
Top, Dylan Henderson, left center, and Robyn Diederiks-Henderson with their sons, Charlie, left, and Remington, in Southampton, N.Y. Above, where the family rents an apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC STRIFFLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE4.

Subject: Entrepreneurs; Housing; Cooking; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/22/realestate/renters-seasonal-hamptons.html

Title: Living in a Resort Town, but Just Getting By:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 28, 2023

column: Renters

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819788945

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/living-resort-town-just-getting/docview/2819788945/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sun, Shore and Some High Rents: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kolomatsky, Michael

Publication info: Kolomatsky, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sun-shore-some-high-rents/docview/2819788900/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Airbnb data reveals the markets in which landlords can expect the highest annual gross revenue from their beach house rentals.
As much as we love booking vacation houses at the beach, paying steep daily rates doesn't exactly spark joy. But if you're fortunate enough to own such a place, renting it out short-term can generate substantial revenue.
In a recent study, AirDNA, a company that analyzes Airbnb data, found the U.S. vacation rental markets where landlords are likely to see the largest annual profits. Researchers separated the markets for cabins, urban apartments and beach houses, then based the results on occupancy and average daily rates using a year of data from April 2022 through March 2023. Potential gross yearly income was calculated by subtracting Airbnb fees from expected rental payments (though mortgage payments and other expenses were not included in the calculation).
Urban rentals had the lowest potential revenue among the three types of housing. Cabins showed more potential. And large beach homes came out on top. Granted, it's expensive to buy in expensive markets -- as in the top-ranked Santa Barbara, Calif., where an occupancy rate of 66 percent and an average daily rate of $ 1,224 generated a potential annual gross of $ 261,115. Los Angeles and Miami followed with similar revenue potential. In fact, 17 of the 20 highest-grossing short-term rental markets for beach houses were found in California or Florida. To determine the profitability of beach houses, only coastal areas of often larger markets were considered.
New York's Long Island (considered an individual market in the study) ranked 20th for beach houses, no doubt helped by luxury rentals in the Hamptons and other parts of the East End. Long Island's occupancy rate saw a pandemic bump, from 43 percent in 2019 to 52 percent in 2020, and has hovered around that level since. The average daily rate has risen considerably, from $ 796 in 2019 to $ 1,447 in 2023.
Vacation areas on both coasts have shown an uptick in demand this year, which is encouraging for those fortunate enough to own properties. But new owners should be cautioned: The increased risk of severe weather and rising sea levels threatens to cut into that revenue before long.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page RE2.

Subject: Rentals; Vacations

Location: United States--US; Long Island New York

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/25/realestate/where-are-the-most-profitable-beach-houses.html

Title: Sun, Shore and Some High Rents:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 28, 2023

column: Calculator

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819788900

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sun-shore-some-high-rents/docview/2819788900/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Riding Along on Spain's El Rocío Pilgrimage: [Travel Desk]

Author: Faingnaert, Kevin; Hart, Anna

Publication info: Faingnaert, Kevin; Hart, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/riding-along-on-spains-el-rocío-pilgrimage/docview/2819561550/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "You can't wear that flamenco dress for the El Rocío pilgrimage, Bonita," Maria Cárdenas, our Airbnb host, said with a laugh. "You'll die in the heat."
She pinched the thick red fabric between her thumb and held it up to my face like a specimen. "You see? Heavy tight dresses like this are made for the festivals at the bullring in Seville city," she explained. "You need lightweight stretchy polyester for pilgrimages -- for riding, walking, dancing, siestas in the grass."
The El Rocío pilgrimage is a high-octane religious spectacle -- a multiday annual fiesta, held in Andalusia, the southernmost region in Spain -- of flamenco dresses, caravans and religious fervor that seems to grow ever stronger, despite the ever-waning influence of the Catholic Church.
Participants can spend months in preparation: planning menus, hiring tractors, arranging for caravans. It also requires the selection of a dress that permits the wearer to relieve herself behind a bush while exuding all the elegance of Goya's Duchess of Alba.
Having studied for a year in Seville in 2012, Kevin, my collaborator, has long dreamed of returning to document the pilgrimage of El Rocío, which was canceled for two consecutive years during the pandemic. My connection to Spain is more recent: I moved to Mallorca last year after deciding that life is too short not to live on a Mediterranean island. Kevin and I regularly work together on travel assignments, and when he told me about El Rocío, it was an easy yes, because the best way to get to know a new country is to party with it.
Although we were documenting the 2022 pilgrimage (this year's will be held at the end of May), we were also participating in a celebration. Andalusia -- famed for flamenco dancing, cowboy culture and pilgrimages -- has a distinct and seductive identity that people in the south of Spain are rightly proud of.
The El Rocío pilgrimage is arguably the most potent visual representation of Andalusian culture, and it's this, as much as religious zeal, that propels hundreds of thousands of pilgrims toward the shrine of the Virgin in the village of El Rocío. Some travel on foot, others atop elaborately decorated caravans. Many are on horseback: stiff-backed and spiffily attired riders in wide-brimmed hats, high-waisted paseo trousers and cropped guayabera jackets.
On our first day, Kevin and I wandered through Doñana National Park, some 40 minutes south of central Seville, foraging for the pilgrims we were assured would be there. Eventually we heard the faint tinkle of cowbells, the clap of horses' hooves, creaking caravan wheels, the strains of flamenco guitar, voices singing in unison. Within minutes, the dusty road had transformed into a festival. Caravans rolled past. Pilgrims pressed bottles of Cruzcampo beer and slices of cured Ibérico ham into our hands. The singing reached a crescendo.
In Spain, Catholicism is taken seriously. But so is beer, ham and cheese -- even at 10 a.m.
Many Andalusian cities, towns and villages developed their own pilgrimages -- known as romerías, so named because pilgrims traditionally walked to Rome -- dedicated to their particular patron saints. But the four-day walk to El Rocío has achieved cult status.
According to legend, a statue of the Virgin Mary was discovered in a tree trunk many hundreds of years ago, in the marshes of the Guadalquivir River. For a couple of centuries, devotion to this shrine was confined to the surrounding towns of Almonte and Villamanrique de la Condesa. But by the 20th century, in celebration of Pentecost, hermandades (brotherhoods) of pilgrims were walking up to four days to get to the area -- from the area surrounding Seville and Huelva, and eventually beyond Andalusia, from Madrid, Barcelona and the Balearic and Canary Islands. At night, the hermandades would camp in the forest, dine together at long tables and dance flamenco around campfires until the reality of the next day's 15-mile hike couldn't be ignored.
Kevin and I share an obsession with international festivals. His impulse is to capture portraits, mine is to listen and learn. But wherever we go, Kevin and I tend to fixate on the faces.
At El Rocío, no faces were closed to outsiders. We were invited into caravans; told to sit and eat stew and sliced watermelon; dragged into flamenco dances; and instructed to take a siesta after lunch in the grass -- otherwise we'd "never survive until Sunday," one participant told us. No one we encountered was reluctant to be interviewed or photographed. Everyone seemed to accept that El Rocío is a spectacle. Our amazement and curiosity was received as a sign of respect.
We joined the caravans in the muddy waters at Quema, a ford in the Guadiamar River, a tributary of the Guadalquivir. In the town of Villamanrique de la Condesa, every restaurant and bar was spilling over with spectators. (El Rocío is televised like a sporting event throughout Spain.)
By Friday night, the first of the hermandades arrived in El Rocío, a tiny town that reminded me of Western movie sets I've seen in California and Arizona. Its character is entirely shaped by the pilgrimage; the more prominent hermandades -- like Huelva, with its 10,000 pilgrims -- own huge boardinghouses at the edge of town, with convent-like rooms and vast communal dining and dancing areas. The smaller hermandades just look for short-term rentals. Even with our beginner's Spanish, we were ushered inside a whitewashed house and given beer, chunks of manchego cheese and slices of cured ham. It struck me that most Spanish culinary staples are essentially pilgrim food: controlled decay turned into a delicacy.
In El Rocío, we found religious fervor in the streets, in the Churro shacks, in the hermandades themselves. But there was also fervor for fervor itself. I'm the Irish daughter of a Presbyterian pastor, raised on no-frills religious celebrations; tea and a scone is as decadent as Presbyterian celebrations get. In El Rocío, I found myself intoxicated by the pageantry and rituals, and by the idea that a pilgrimage can and should also be a source of revelry.
Friday night melted into Saturday morning, and Kevin and I found ourselves chatting with two young friends from Madrid -- in their 30s, like us. Young people used to want to escape from religious traditions, they told us. But El Rocío offers them an escape, they said, from the stresses of modern life.
"I love El Rocío, because it's the one time of the year that my whole family gets together -- no excuses," said Carmen Mora, 32, who works for a travel tech start-up. "It's healthy to forget about city life for a week -- my city clothes, the technology, my job, the pressure."
"It's good for the spirit to be immersed in tradition," she added.
Kevin Faingnaert is a photographer who lives in Ghent, Belgium. You can follow his work on Instagram .
Anna Hart is a writer from Belfast. You can follow her work on Instagram .
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Top, the Hermandad del Rocío de Sevilla -- the House of the Brotherhood of Seville -- in the village of El Rocío. Above from left: pilgrims on a horseback ride through Doñana National Park; women traditionally wear brightly colored flamenco dresses for the pilgrimage; a young equestrian wears traditional hat, high-waisted paseo trousers and cropped guayabera jacket; above right, the arrival of the Huelva hermandad in El Rocío is applauded by spectators; right, the sun sets on another long day on the road. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN FAINGNAERT) This article appeared in print on page C9.

Subject: Travel; Religion; Pilgrims; Pilgrimages; National parks; Towns; Festivals; Flamenco

Location: Spain

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/08/travel/el-rocio-pilgrimage-spain.html

Title: Riding Along on Spain's El Rocío Pilgrimage:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 27, 2023

column: The World Through A Lens

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819561550

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/riding-along-on-spains-el-rocío-pilgrimage/docview/2819561550/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Subway Attack, a 'Scary Journey' to Heal: [National Desk]

Author: Meko, Hurubie

Publication info: Meko, Hurubie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-subway-attack-scary-journey-heal/docview/2819183168/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Emine Yilmaz Ozsoy has been partially paralyzed and is in critical condition, surrounded by an improvised web of support. Her story embodies New York's post-pandemic fears and challenges.
For days after Emine Yilmaz Ozsoy was shoved against a speeding subway train on her way to work, she lay in intensive care at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center. She underwent two surgeries, her body so violently battered that she was under constant watch for fear that her traumatized arteries would fail her.
On Thursday, Ms. Ozsoy remained partially paralyzed, but was gathering strength, testing her remaining mobility and cognizant of everything that had happened to her since early Sunday morning when a man thrust her head into the train as it pulled out of the Lexington Avenue/63rd Street station.
"At this moment, her journey is a very scary journey," her husband, Ferdi Ozsoy, said in an interview.
Since moving from Istanbul in 2017, Ms. Ozsoy, 35, has embodied New York's "hustler" spirit, said a cousin, Deniz Gunduz. She had left a career as a page designer at one of Turkey's most influential newspapers to pursue a more creative path. In New York, she embarked on a career as an artist and illustrator, simultaneously learning English and picking up a job as a barista. She is focused, motivated and unyieldingly independent, her relatives said.
Now, suddenly vulnerable, Ms. Ozsoy is at the center of concentric rings of care: nurses and doctors who monitor her in the intensive care unit; her husband and cousin, who are intermediaries with everyone who comes into contact with her; friends who arrive with food and embraces. Beyond those inner rings are New York City residents for whom she embodies a persistent fear of such violence, with her story crystallizing the endemic problem of safety underground.
Authorities have said the attack on Ms. Ozsoy was carried out by Kamal Semrade, 39, who was arrested late Monday at a homeless shelter near La Guardia Airport in Queens, charged with attempted murder and held without bail. His lawyer, Rebecca Heinsen, said in a statement that her client should be given the presumption of innocence and cautioned against drawing conclusions about him.
The chance of falling victim to violent crime on the subway is statistically low, but without a discernible motive, the apparently random attack revived fears about an unsafe subterranean city.
Inside the hospital, however, there is a single focus: Ms. Ozsoy.
On Sunday, she underwent a marathon of medical treatment that lasted over 12 hours. She was given an M.R.I. and a CT scan, and then was rushed into surgery after it was discovered her neck had been broken, Mr. Gunduz said.
She suffered a "cervical spine fracture, broken fingers, a laceration on her scalp and damage to four major blood vessels," a prosecutor, Carolyn McGuigan, said at Mr. Semrade's arraignment.
By Monday morning, Ms. Ozsoy was able to fully lift one arm, faster than doctors had anticipated. By Thursday, her husband said, she could lift both arms, though she could not move her hands and her legs have remained paralyzed. The battery of machines that had sustained her had been reduced to an intravenous drip.
Family and friends have stayed by Ms. Ozsoy's bedside day and night. Only two people at a time are allowed to sit with her in the hospital room, so others wait in a family room overflowing with food dropped off by visitors. Mr. Ozsoy or Mr. Gunduz have had to meet well wishers outside the hospital to give them updates on Ms. Ozsoy's condition. Her colleagues also started an online fund-raiser for the family's expenses.
On Wednesday, sitting in the back of Matto Espresso on Second Avenue in Manhattan, where Ms. Ozsoy had been scheduled to work on the day she was attacked, Mr. Ozsoy and Mr. Gunduz grappled with the chance nature of the attack and worried about their loved one's future. "What is Emine going to do now?" Mr. Gunduz asked.
Ms. Ozsoy had been building her community and life in New York, her relatives and friends said. An avid artist, she would take her iPad to parks and draw for hours. Her work has appeared in a number of magazines and she has worked with clients like Airbnb, Puma, Chicago Magazine and the band Maroon 5, Mr. Ozsoy wrote in a statement.
The "sweetest person you'll ever meet," Ms. Ozsoy was quiet and observant, her husband said. Art was how she expressed herself: Her vibrant illustrations captured people reading in parks and walking in the city. She was advancing at the cafe also, having just been told she was getting promoted to supervisor.
The Ozsoys met in Turkey in 2011 and married in 2014, Mr. Ozsoy said. A native New Yorker, he said he had told her before they moved to America that New York would be a place to live her dreams. Though they decided to separate, he said, they remain "partners in life."
Mr. Ozsoy lives near Tampa, Fla., but they would talk often, and they met for dinner in New York a week before her attack. Mr. Ozsoy said he could see that she was thriving in the new life she was building.
"She felt that and she was able to live that," he said. "Until Sunday."
That day, Ms. Ozsoy stepped into a transportation system that has struggled since the pandemic emptied it of riders. The subway is the city's economic lifeblood and its condition defines New York's broader well-being.
During the long lockdown, ridership dipped and people grew concerned about crime in the depopulated system. Mayor Eric Adams has unveiled programs that he has said are intended to help make the subways safer, with plans to flood them with police officers and mental health workers, and to remove more than 1,000 homeless people.
But even as overall crime in the system has fallen in recent months, violent aberrations have persisted: an unprovoked murder on the Q train, a mass shooting on the R in Brooklyn, the fatal choking of a homeless man just this month on the F.
The attack on Ms. Ozsoy occupied a particular niche in New Yorkers' fears: the sudden shove as an unstoppable train bears down.
In a case that transfixed the city in 2022, Michelle Alyssa Go, who worked in mergers and acquisitions, left her Upper West Side apartment and was on a subway platform in Times Square when a 61-year-old man pushed her from behind, shoving her to her death in front of a southbound train. The man who the police said pushed her, Martial Simon, was found unfit to stand trial and was committed indefinitely to a locked psychiatric facility.
On Sunday, Ms. Ozsoy was on her way to work when she boarded a train in Queens near her home in Jackson Heights. Mr. Semrade boarded the same train at the station, the police said. Both got off at Lexington Avenue/63rd Street at around 6 a.m., officials said.
As a train pulled out, Mr. Semrade approached Ms. Ozsoy from behind, grabbed her head with both hands and shoved her "with all of his force into the moving subway car," said Ms. McGuigan, the prosecutor, at Mr. Semrade's arraignment. "She hit the train in her face and head, rolled along it then crashed back to the platform where she was instantly paralyzed," she said.
At 6:04 a.m., Eli Naim, Ms. Ozsoy's boss, who oversees the Matto Espresso cafe chain, got a call from her number. But when he picked up, Ms. Ozsoy wasn't the one on the line.
A woman whom he did not know told him that there had been an accident on the subway and that Ms. Ozsoy was injured, he said. He could hear Ms. Ozsoy in the background telling someone to "call Eli."
In Florida, Mr. Ozsoy got a call from a police officer after the attack, informing him that his wife was at the hospital, but he wasn't told about the severity of her injuries. Shortly after, he got another call, he said, this time from a doctor telling him that Ms. Ozsoy had made him her medical proxy before surgery.
"That's when I called Deniz," Mr. Ozsoy said. "I said, 'Deniz, I'm not in New York, please go next to her."'
Through everything, Mr. Gunduz has been updating her parents and four siblings in Turkey about her condition as they seek emergency passports and visas to come to New York.
For the family, the attack on Ms. Ozsoy was a personal, intimate blow.
"We never think it is going to happen to us," Mr. Ozsoy said. All New Yorkers, he added, should contemplate the violence that had occurred and what it meant for the city.
"Those metro stations are not only there to take a person from one place to another place, they're arteries of the city," he said, adding: "If we're not safe in these arteries, where are we going to be safe?"
Photograph The Manhattan station where Emine Yilmaz Ozsoy, below left, was pushed against a moving train. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Ms. Ozsoy suffered numerous injuries and remains partially paralyzed, said her husband, Ferdi Ozsoy, second from right. He and Deniz Gunduz, a cousin, have been by her hospital bed for days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIZ GUNDUZ; JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Hospitals; Veins & arteries; Mass murders; Intensive care; Homeless people; Pandemics

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/25/nyregion/subway-attack-woman-shoved-manhattan.html

Title: After Subway Attack, a 'Scary Journey' to Heal:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 26, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819183168

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-subway-attack-scary-journey-heal/docview/2819183168/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ex-Airbnb Evangelist Crusades for Affordable Housing: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: White, Martha C

Publication info: White, Martha C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-airbnb-evangelist-crusades-affordable-housing/docview/2816255250/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Precious Price ditched her profitable business of renting home stays to tourists to combat the mounting housing crisis.
"Making It Work" is a series is about small-business owners striving to endure hard times.
When Precious Price bought her first home four years ago in Atlanta while working as a marketing consultant, she took advantage of her frequent business trips by renting out her house on Airbnb during her absences. "I knew I wanted to use that as a rental or investment property," she said. "I began doing that, and it was honestly very lucrative."
For Ms. Price, 27, and other young entrepreneurs of color, online short-term rental platforms like Airbnb and Vrbo represented a path to building wealth on their own terms. With an excellent credit score and minimal start-up capital -- a primary barrier for people in this demographic -- a professional Airbnb host could amass a stable of apartments on long-term leases, then turn around and rent those properties on a nightly basis to vacationers.
Some of these entrepreneurs see it as a more equitable alternative to corporate America, with its legacy of institutionalized bias and inflexibility toward caregivers and working parents. Others are motivated by the desire to cater to Black travelers, who say they still face discrimination even after platforms like Airbnb promised to address issues like documented cases of bias.
Ms. Price became an evangelist of sorts, establishing social media channels to teach other would-be entrepreneurs how to follow in her footsteps, and churning out a digital library's worth of videos, tutorials and advice using the handle @AirbnbMoney.
The irony was not lost on Ms. Price that her grand real estate ambitions were propelled by the 296-square-foot "tiny house" she spent nearly six months building for herself in her backyard. When the coronavirus pandemic slammed the brakes on travel, grounding her road-warrior lifestyle and evaporating her supplemental income stream virtually overnight, her tiny house allowed her to continue renting out her primary home and making a large profit.
She even added to her portfolio, buying a second house and renting several furnished apartments in Atlanta's popular Midtown neighborhood, and she eventually left her consulting job to manage her rental business full time.
"It was a freeing experience at the time," she said. "I'm making a ton of money that most of my family has never seen in their lifetime."
Ms. Price was earning as much as $ 12,000 a month and deriving a sense of purpose from her work on social media helping her peers achieve financial security. Initially, she said she had no interest in renting to long-term tenants -- the profit margin for tourist bookings was so much higher.
"I was adamant about only renting to vacationers," Ms. Price said. "I was just so heavily into the rat race."
Then, the distressing messages started to come. First one or two, then too many to ignore: a litany of increasingly distraught calls and emails from people who didn't want her Airbnbs for a weekend away -- they were in desperate need of a place to call home.
Ms. Price realized she was on the front lines of a housing crisis. By renting property to tourists rather than long-term renters, she and others like her were exacerbating the nation's housing affordability problem, as she related in a 2022 TEDxAtlanta talk. "I started to realize that conversation began happening across the country," she said.
The pleas and stories of financial precariousness hit home for Ms. Price, the oldest of five siblings and a first-generation college graduate. She went to business school at Indiana University. "When I started to get these calls from single mothers and students, I started to realize that's the identity of some of my family members," she said. "And I'm realizing the connection of how I'm not very far removed at all from that."
She began to re-examine her values and to walk away from the lucrative vacation-rental business. She stopped listing properties on short-term rental sites, and over the next several months, she shed her rental portfolio. "Everyone has their own ethical compass and for me, mine felt just off with what I was doing," Ms. Price said.
The few remaining tenants she has now are on long-term leases, and the rent she collects is enough to cover her costs, with maybe "a couple hundred dollars left over," she said. She supplements that income with freelance consulting and public speaking gigs. Although she is earning a fraction of her former income, she is more fulfilled and no longer feeling burned out, she said.
The housing crisis Ms. Price witnessed in Atlanta is playing out across the nation. The United States is short about 6.5 million single-family homes, according to the National Association of Realtors. For more than a decade, homes were not built fast enough to keep pace with population growth, a trend that was exacerbated by the pandemic. During this time, demand for larger homes grew even as construction slowed, hamstrung first by public health restrictions, then by a labor shortage and supply-chain issues that made everything from copper pipe to carpet scarcer and more expensive.
The number of affordable houses has plunged: Only 10 percent of new homes cost less than $ 300,000 as of the fourth quarter of 2022, even as mortgage rates have roughly doubled over the past year.
These challenges have a cascading effect that has driven up rents, as well: Moody's Analytics found that the average renter now spends more than 30 percent of their income on rent.
"If you look at rental vacancy rates, they're extremely low," said Whitney Airgood-Obrycki, a senior research associate at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University. "It's really hard for people to find an affordable place to move to. It's extremely tight, especially for low-income renters."
As Ms. Price experienced up close, a growing number of municipalities -- including Atlanta -- have emerged from the pandemic only to find a full-blown housing crisis on their doorsteps. Lawmakers are seeking greater regulation of short-term rentals, with many trying to discourage "professional hosts," as opposed to homeowners who are renting out part or all of their primary home.
Policies should be nuanced enough to distinguish between the two categories of renters, said Ingrid Gould Ellen, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University, and faculty director of the university's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy. "Airbnb can be a really useful tool for a lot of people, for homeowners who are maybe struggling to make their mortgage payments, or even renters who want to occasionally make some income and rent their units while they're away on vacation," she said. "Those are all forms of usage that don't actually restrict the long-term supply of housing."
Ms. Price's experience with the tiny house in her backyard inspired her to search for another way for people to add housing -- and for homeowners to generate rental income. These units, known colloquially as "tiny homes" or "granny flats" and identified formally as accessory dwelling units, can take the form of tiny homes, guest cottages, or apartments that are either stand-alone or attached to the primary house. An increasing number of policymakers are hoping these units can help take some of the pressure off the tight housing market.
"She's working on a pressing problem -- the lack of housing supply across the U.S.," said Praveen Ghanta, a technology entrepreneur who began the Emerging Founders program, a start-up incubator for Black, Latino and female founders in Atlanta. Ms. Price, a participant in the program, is working on a start-up she named Landrift, which is intended to be a resource hub so that homeowners -- particularly homeowners of color -- can increase the value of their properties and generate income by building their own tiny homes. "We can make a meaningful impact, particularly in markets like Atlanta," Mr. Ghanta said.
"Sometimes I think people get fixated on the notion of affordable housing and that it has to be nonprofit," he said. "The reality is there's a lot of both money to be made and housing to be supplied, even within market rate constructs."
Ms. Price has reoriented her social media platforms away from the management of short-term rental properties and toward the promotion of small-scale development of accessory dwelling units. "At this point I do want to begin acquiring other properties," she said. She is looking for houses with enough land to accommodate a tiny house while building a second ancillary structure -- a guest cottage -- on her first property.
"My plan is to get a property I would be able to do some kind of housing on so I'm not just taking housing, but would be able to make more housing," she said. "The American dream is real estate."
Precious Price, a former home-share host, and the tiny house that she built for herself in her Atlanta backyard. Ms. Price rents out her main house to local tenants, forfeiting lucrative short-term tourist bookings, and lives in roughly 300 square feet, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNSEY WEATHERSPOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE8.

Subject: Families & family life; Houses; Rentals; Startups; Affordable housing; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Affordable housing Social networks

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/12/business/airbnb-short-term-rental-discrimination-housing.html

Title: Ex-Airbnb Evangelist Crusades for Affordable Housing:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 21, 2023

column: Making It Work

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2816255250

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-airbnb-evangelist-crusades-affordable-housing/docview/2816255250/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tacos, Travel and Plenty of Time Together: [Society Desk]

Author: Rivas, Mekita

Publication info: Rivas, Mekita. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tacos-travel-plenty-time-together/docview/2816255209/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After hitting it off on a dating app, Keith Jefferson and Constance Ejismekwu became travel partners, taking back-to-back trips until the pandemic.
After Keith Quinntarus Jefferson and Constance Chinyere Ejismekwu matched on Tinder in December 2018, it didn't take long for them to realize they had something special. They initially communicated via FaceTime on New Year's Eve and went on their first date the next day.
It was a Tuesday night. They bonded over tacos at Three Sheets Bar and Grill, a karaoke spot in Houston.
"We've literally hit it off since then," said Ms. Ejismekwu, 35, whose inner travel bug quickly rubbed off on Mr. Jefferson, 38, as they spent more time together.
She was the adventurous jet-setter. He was the one trying to keep up with her passport stamp collection.
"She was going, 'Oh, I went to Greece, I'm going to Iceland,"' said Mr. Jefferson, a client executive at Verizon in Houston. "I don't know any of those spots, so that whole year in 2019, we traveled. And I'm glad I took that risk."
Their first trip together was to Denver in May 2019. There, they had what Ms. Ejismekwu described as their "first remote weed experience." They booked an Airbnb along a steep cliff in Denver and went on a cannabis spree.
"We loaded up with all of this weed, all of these different products, and went up this hill," said Ms. Ejismekwu, a speech language pathologist with a private practice in Houston. "Mind you, it is dangerous to get down and up, so we barricaded ourselves there for the entire weekend."
Despite being stuck in one place, the experience was "extremely memorable" and kick-started a whirlwind series of back-to-back trips. But all the traveling came to a halt in March 2020, when the coronavirus pandemic took hold. Barely a year into dating, the couple was faced with another major milestone.
As lockdowns loomed, was it time to move in together?
"Honestly, no, because my whole thing was, I was always going to keep my separate place until I got married," Ms. Ejismekwu said. "However, the pandemic definitely taught us that, hey, you can live with the person, get to know them, and it will be just fine. I mean, the pandemic forced everybody to be vulnerable."
They decided to move in together, and by December 2020, Ms. Ejismekwu had learned she was pregnant, news that Mr. Jefferson called "my Christmas gift." The following March, they held an intimate gender reveal party where, as it turned out, another big surprise would be revealed.
"That's when he popped the ring," Ms. Ejismekwu said, referring to a princess-cut engagement ring with a dual band.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
About 15 to 20 friends and family members were gathered for the occasion. "Since so many close people were there, I decided to propose that day," Mr. Jefferson said.
Their son, Jackson Keith Ejismekwu Jefferson, was born in August 2021. The couple had considered several destinations for their nuptials, including Jamaica and Denver, but ultimately settled on Los Angeles after an online search led them to what would become their chosen venue: Kim Sing Theater in Chinatown.
"The layout alone was perfect for a weed wedding," Mr. Jefferson said. "The multiple chill areas, combined with the courtyards and easy access to the weed bus parking spot, were exactly what we needed."
The theater also included six suites that could be booked for overnight stays. They took advantage of the space's relaxed feel, hosting less of a wedding and more of a soiree-meets-sleepover on May 6, 2023. Ms. Ejismekwu's stepfather, Clarence Madison Ayers, who is ordained by the Fellowship of Christian Assemblies, officiated.
A taco truck provided snacks well into the evening, a nod to their first date more than four years ago.
The event was child-friendly until around 7:30 p.m., when the adult-only portion of the wedding festivities began. All 75 guests were encouraged to change into their pajamas and participate in a number of cannabis-themed activities, from prerolls and edibles in a mobile cannabis lounge parked outside the theater to THC- and CBD-infused massages.
"All we heard from people was, 'This is the best wedding I've ever been to; I don't even feel like I'm at a wedding, I feel so relaxed,"' Ms. Ejismekwu said. "We provided an entire vibe of relaxation and just letting loose."
Photograph Constance Ejismekwu, Keith Jefferson (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENE PORTO OF PORTO PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST15.

Subject: Weddings; Travel; Theater; Pandemics; Marijuana

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/19/style/keith-jefferson-constance-ejismekwu-wedding.html

Title: Tacos, Travel and Plenty of Time Together:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 21, 2023

column: I-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2816255209

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tacos-travel-plenty-time-together/docview/2816255209/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; 5 Cheap(ish) Things to Bring to a Vacation Rental: [Travel Desk]

Author: Ryan, Christine

Publication info: Ryan, Christine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-5-cheap-ish-things-bring-vacation/docview/2814660497/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Most Airbnb and Vrbo hosts put a lot of thought into making their guests comfortable. Still, I've assembled a useful, albeit quirky, list of gear to bring with me -- things whose availability I don't dare leave to chance. Here are five not-so-expensive items from my personal packing list that could make your stay better. CHRISTINE RYAN
A fallback way to make coffee. Although any decent rental should come with a good coffee maker, that isn't always the case. So pick up a portable, easy-to-use option that makes excellent coffee, like the AeroPress Go Travel Coffee Press. You might not end up needing it, but at about $ 40, being prepared is not a huge extravagance.
An extra-long charging cable. At home, having a charging cable for my phone or tablet that's longer than it needs to be is a pain -- I have to coil my cables with zip ties to keep from tripping over them. But when I'm traveling, having an extra 3 or 4 feet can be a huge help -- who knows where the closest outlet to the nightstand will be?
A cheap Bluetooth speaker. A network of audio devices at home keeps me safely within range of Morning Edition as I get ready for my day: a clock radio by the bed, a shower radio in the bathroom, an Echo speaker in the kitchen. Without my usual soundtrack, I feel unmoored. So I travel with a small, portable Bluetooth speaker like the Tribit XSound Go, which is compact, waterproof and offers quality sound.
A pair of flip-flops. Flip-flops are great to keep by the door for quick trips outside to the corner store or back deck. Havaianas Top flip-flips come in men's and women's sizes, cost less than $ 20, and are quiet and grippy on wet surfaces.
A headlamp to light your way. A headlamp is a good thing to pack in case you need to find a lockbox after dark or fetch more logs from a woodpile when a fire needs stoking, or if the power fails. It helps you with all of that stuff while leaving your hands free -- you can't say the same about a flashlight.
Christine Ryan is a senior editor at Wirecutter, a product recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company. For more advice, visit nytimes.com/wirecutter.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL HESSION) This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Coffee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/16/pageoneplus/18a3_help.html

Title: Here to Help; 5 Cheap(ish) Things to Bring to a Vacation Rental:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2814660497

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-5-cheap-ish-things-bring-vacation/docview/2814660497/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After a Dating Hiatus, Embracing Something New: [Society Desk]

Author: Rafkin, Louise

Publication info: Rafkin, Louise. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-dating-hiatus-embracing-something-new/docview/2813106449/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Friendship came naturally to Ande Flower and Veronica Savage, but romance was more difficult to foresee. However, they persisted -- all the way to the 'yacht rock' altar.
For Ande Flower, the first year of the pandemic coincided conveniently with a personal commitment to staying single. Mr. Flower began transitioning from female to male in 2018, following a move from Seattle to Pacific Grove, Calif., for a new job. At the turn of 2020, he began a new chapter of his life publicly living as a man.
To allow time to adapt to this huge change, Mr. Flower, an urban planner focused on affordable housing in the Central California region, vowed to spend the year getting to know himself. "No dating," he promised. Instead, he spent time meditating, kayaking on nearby Monterey Bay and biking the windy roads around Pebble Beach.
Toward the end of the year, he looked in the mirror and "finally recognized myself," he said. So, in December 2020, he cautiously ventured onto OkCupid and quickly became captivated by Veronica Savage's unique dating profile.
In one photo she was riding a unicycle wearing a T-shirt that read "Black and Nerdy"; in another, she was in Uganda on a gorilla trek. Ms. Savage's extensive -- some might say encyclopedic -- profile proclaimed a love of travel, an open mind and a decades-long passion for music. "I'm a wannabe rock star with my head in the clouds," she wrote. "I'll try anything once short of jumping out of a plane."
"Veronica was clearly adventurous, and I could tell she didn't take herself too seriously," said Mr. Flower, 51. The idiosyncratic autobiography made Mr. Flower all too ready for his year of self-reflection to be over.
Coincidently, Ms. Savage, 56, was also keen to put 2020 in the rearview mirror. A whirlwind romance that had begun in 2019 had ended suddenly. "I was devastated and embarrassed and needed to focus on what I truly wanted in a partner," she said. So, she, too, had spent time during the pandemic soul-searching.
Swiping on each other triggered a volley of fun texts. Mr. Flower's profile was brief, but Ms. Savage was intrigued by his bright smile. "I'm quirky," Ms. Savage said, with a laugh. "Also, in my head, I'm 36, but in reality, I fall into the old lady category."
During their first phone conversation, which seemed unusually easy to both, Mr. Flower floated the idea of attending an online meditation course "together." But during the class, she was puzzled by Mr. Flower's preference for male pronouns; she remembered nothing about gender in his profile. "I honestly didn't catch that Ande was trans," she said.
After the meditation class, Mr. Flower called Ms. Savage to ask if him being transgender was a problem for her.
"I guess not," Ms. Savage replied.
But in truth, Ms. Savage was flummoxed; her entire identity and social life in Oakland, Calif., was built around the lesbian and women's music communities. After a childhood in Rocky Mount, N.C., Ms. Savage, now a senior quality engineer at a Bay Area tech company, had lived in several southern cities and London before landing in the Bay Area in 1993. There, with a former female partner, she raised a daughter, now 20 and attending the University of Oregon.
She also immersed herself in the nascent lesbian punk music scene, playing bass and singing in multiple bands including the Hail Marys, Dolorata, MILF! the Band, and the Halford Wives, a Judas Priest cover band. She currently plays in Easy Queen, which is described on their website as "three fierce, feminist, funny folx forging fabulously funky rock."
In January 2021, on the exact anniversary of Mr. Flower's then-expiring no-dating vow, Ms. Savage agreed to a rendezvous in Santa Cruz, a coastal city midway between their homes. During a seaside stroll, they volleyed questions; Ms. Savage was curious about Mr. Flower's transition journey. "I asked maybe 800 offensive questions ," she said. "And Ande rolled easily with every one of them."
While Ms. Savage didn't foresee a romantic future for the two of them, Mr. Flower, true to his sunny sensibility, remained optimistic about a relationship. His journey to becoming who he was and knowing what he wanted had been a long one. An athletic, social child with many friends, he was raised by a single mother in St. Cloud, Fla., and when young, was often mistaken for a boy. "That always delighted me," he said.
In 1994, then in his early 20s, he briefly was married to a man and gave birth to a daughter, now 29. Some people close to him assumed he was a lesbian, but that never felt right to him. "I longed to be with a woman, but preferred to be with a woman as a man," he said. "I am comfortable with who I am even if others aren't."
After earning a bachelor's degree in urban studies from the University of Washington Tacoma, he graduated with a master's in urban planning from the University of Washington in Seattle.
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
Ms. Savage found Mr. Flower understanding, empathetic and willing to talk through any issue with a full heart. "Quickly it felt like we had known each other a long time," she said.
A few months later, after intermittent correspondence, they eventually met again when Ms. Savage visited Mr. Flower at his home in Pacific Grove. That morning Mr. Flower had baked cinnamon rolls. Upon Ms. Savage's arrival, he enlisted her to help deliver the fresh buns to his neighbors and friends, a gesture that piqued Ms. Savage's attention.
"Who does that? Ande was so full of kindness and generosity," said Ms. Savage, whose resolve to remain just friends weakened with each hour spent together. That night the two stayed up late talking, but by morning their platonic relationship had morphed into something profound.
"Both of us value and appreciate intimacy and our ability to go deep is evenly matched," Mr. Flower said. As Ms. Savage prepared to return to Oakland, both shared feelings that erased any doubts or misgivings.
Over the next year, the couple bounced from Mr. Flower's small beachy community to Ms. Savage's urban home, referring often to each other as the country mouse and the city mouse. With Ms. Savage parenting on alternate weekends, their time alone together was precious. In their country life, they kayaked, hiked and watched the fog roll in and out. In the city, they attended concerts, visited art galleries and sought out unusual restaurants. With each visit, the relationship strengthened.
"I didn't know if friends would judge me for being with a man," Ms. Savage said. "But every time a friend met Ande, they adored him and saw how happy he made me."
In April 2022, still under the shadow of Covid, the couple spent a month working out of Mr. Flower's mother's home in Mount Dora, Fla. After that togetherness, they were loath to part. So, in May 2022, they decided to make a home together, moving into an Airbnb in Sacramento and putting Ms. Savage's home on the market. After the sale, the couple purchased a house in Rancho Cordova, a suburb of Sacramento, where they both now work remotely.
In September, on a windswept beach, Mr. Flower proposed marriage to Ms. Savage, who joyously accepted. "This is a later-in-life relationship," Mr. Flower said. "We have been around the block enough times to know what we need and are thrilled to have found it with each other."
On April 29, a hot spring day, the couple wed at Shangri-La, a restaurant and event venue in Fair Oaks, Calif., not far from the couple's home. Kristin Masters, ordained by the American Marriage Ministries, performed the ceremony in front of 130 guests, many in yachting caps, tropical print dresses and hats big enough to make their own shade which gave a cruise-ship vibe to the event's theme of "Yacht Rock."
"It's love-centered, positive and has that '70s groove that reminded both of us of when we were growing up," Mr. Flower said of the theme.
At the entrance, the costume-happy crowd was encouraged to don leis and pick up a brightly painted maraca or two. Oakland musician Kofy Brown arrived dressed as Isaac Washington, the bartender on the television show "The Love Boat," complete with a stick-on mustache, pink Hawaiian shirt and white slacks. Ms. Brown's wife, Margaret Belton, a singer in a Patsy Cline tribute band, arrived dressed as Julie McCoy, the Love Boat's cruise director from the same show.
In her vows, Ms. Savage shared decades of hard-won relationship advice: "There will be dozens of people who will take your breath away," she said. "But the one who reminds you to breathe is the one you should keep."
"I give you this ring as a reminder that we face this world together," said Mr. Flower while holding Ms. Savage's hands. "We're an unbreakable team."
"If halos were a thing, Ande would have one," Ms. Savage said. "I had lots of questions for Ande when we first met, but in the end, his answer was 'I'm just Ande,' and now he's my Ande."
On This Day
When April 29, 2023
Where Shangri-La, a restaurant and event venue in Fair Oaks, Calif.
We are Family At least three of Ms. Savage's longtime former partners, including the co-parent of her daughter, attended to cheer her on. Leigh Crow, a guest, musician and female Elvis impersonator who once performed as Elvis Herselvis, noted, "If queer weddings didn't include exes, there'd be no one there."
The '80s are (Also) Forever During the reception, Ms. Savage jumped onstage and played bass with the wedding band, Popular Demand. Both bride and groom took the other's last name for a middle name (she is now Veronica Flower Savage and he is Ande Savage Flower), with one guest noting the combination captured the spirit of the couple: beautiful, fierce, and a perfect moniker for a punk band. (Mr. Flower, however, plays the flute.)
Feel the Heat Large white umbrellas, palm trees and banana plants shaded tables on the sprawling patio, but by midafternoon, the temperature was in the high 80s and guests stripped off whatever they could to hit the dance floor. Before leaving, the couple embraced, dipped, and shared a kiss under a rainbow flag emblazoned with "Everyone is welcome here."
Stephanie Klassen contributed reporting.
Photograph Veronica Savage and Ande Flower were married on April 29 at Shangri-La, a restaurant and event space in Fair Oaks, Calif. The theme of the celebration was decidedly "yacht rock." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEGAN TENNELL) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Bands; Art galleries & museums; Meditation; Personal relationships; Musical performances; Pandemics

Location: Pacific Grove California; United States--US; Sacramento California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/12/style/ande-flower-veronica-savage-wedding.html

Title: After a Dating Hiatus, Embracing Something New:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 14, 2023

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813106449

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-dating-hiatus-embracing-something-new/docview/2813106449/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Wall St. Muddles Through Inflation Report: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wall-st-muddles-through-inflation-report/docview/2811808125/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A mixed day of trading left Wall Street slightly higher on Wednesday after a report showed inflation is making strides toward easing, even if it remains high.
The S&P 500 rose 0.4 percent after swinging between gains and losses through the day. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 0.1 percent while the Nasdaq composite rallied by 1 percent.
Bond prices climbed after the highly anticipated report said inflation at the consumer level edged down to 4.9 percent last month, its lowest level in two years. That was slightly better than economists expected, and other underlying measures of inflation also came in very close to forecasts.
Because of that, Wall Street still sees the door open for the Federal Reserve to leave interest rates alone at its next meeting in June. That would be the first time it hasn't raised rates at a meeting in more than a year, and a pause would offer some breathing room for the economy and financial markets.
"The concern coming in was that it would be hotter than feared," said Ross Mayfield, investment strategy analyst at Baird. "While not exactly an exciting report, I think there was enough good news baked in that it shouldn't impact the Fed or the economic trajectory all that much."
The Fed has jacked up rates at a furious pace in hopes of driving down inflation. But high rates do that by slowing the entire economy and hitting investment prices broadly. They've already sent stock prices tumbling, caused turmoil in the banking system and dragged on the economy enough that many investors expect a recession to hit this year.
Following the report, traders raised the probability they see of the Fed holding rates steady in June to nearly 94 percent, according to data from CME Group.
Stocks that benefit the most from an easing of interest rates led the way on Wall Street, including Big Tech and other high-growth stocks. Amazon's 3.3 percent rise and Microsoft's 1.7 percent climb were the two biggest forces lifting the S&P 500.
On the losing end of Wall Street, Lincoln National fell 3.9 percent after reporting weaker profit for the latest quarter than expected.
Airbnb dropped 10.9 percent despite reporting profit that matched analysts' forecasts. It gave financial forecasts for the current quarter that were weaker than some on Wall Street expected.
Most companies in the S&P 500 have topped profit forecasts so far this reporting season, which is approaching its final stretch. But they're still on pace to report an overall drop in earnings from a year earlier, which would be the second straight quarter that has happened.
Icahn Enterprises, the partnership run by the activist investor Carl Icahn, sank 15.1 percent after disclosing that federal prosecutors asked for information related to its corporate governance and other matters.
The request from the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of New York came a day after a short-selling research firm, Hindenburg Research, accused Icahn Enterprises of inflating the value of some of its investments. Icahn called the accusations misleading and self-serving and published a rebuttal Wednesday.
In the bond market, increased hopes for a coming pause from the Fed on rates pushed yields lower.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury, which helps set rates for mortgages and other important loans, fell to 3.43 percent. The two-year Treasury yield, which moves more on expectations for Fed action, fell to 3.9 percent.
Besides worries about interest rates and inflation, some corners of the bond market are also swinging on concerns about the U.S. government inching closer to a possible default on its debt. That has never happened before, and economists warn that a default could be catastrophic for the economy and financial markets.
Credit: By The Associated Press
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Dow Jones averages; Growth stocks; Inflation; Interest rates; Securities markets; Bond markets

Business indexing term: Subject: Growth stocks Inflation Interest rates Securities markets Bond markets

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Icahn Enterprises LP; NAICS: 523150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/10/business/11markets.html

Title: Wall St. Muddles Through Inflation Report:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 11, 2023

column: Stocks & Bonds

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811808125

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wall-st-muddles-through-inflation-report/docview/2811808125/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Prince With No Throne

Author: Krueger, Alyson

Publication info: Krueger, Alyson. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prince-with-no-throne/docview/2810193232/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
VIENNA — Ferdinand Habsburg-Lothringen sometimes goes for runs around the 1,441-room Schönbrunn Palace, the former summer residence of the Habsburg rulers of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
He loves taking in the manicured gardens, the mazes, one of the world’s oldest zoos still in existence, and one of the largest baroque orangeries in the world.
“I go there to wander around the beauty,” he said, as do the tourists who can visit for an entrance fee of $22 and up.
But once in a while things can feel a little weird in a way that is unique to Habsburg.
“There is a bedroom inside the palace that would have been mine if I was crown prince,” he said, noting that he knows which one it is. “The first time I visited this place on a class trip when I was 14, I just thought, ‘I would never arrange my room like that.’”
Habsburg is the 25-year-old heir apparent to the House of Habsburg-Lorraine. His great-grandfather was Charles I, the last emperor of Austria and the king of Hungary. Before him, other ancestors ruled for more than 600 years, presiding over a vast global empire.
In 1918, at the end of World War I, Austria became a republic, and the Habsburgs (often rendered as “Hapsburg” in English) were dethroned and sent into exile. Charles I died on the Portuguese island of Madeira in 1922. The Habsburgs were allowed back into Austria if they renounced their claims to rule, which Habsburg’s grandfather Otto did in 1961. In 1966, he returned for only a few hours, by car from Bavaria, Germany.
Today Austria is a democratic republic with a president, chancellor and parliament, and while some members of the former ruling family, like Habsburg himself, are living in Austria again, they still have no power or privilege. Instead, he is an ordinary citizen — one who races cars in the FIA World Endurance Championship and lives in an apartment in Vienna with his 22-year-old sister, Gloria Habsburg-Lothringen.
When he visits the Capuchin crypt in Vienna, the place where his grandparents lay and where he and his father, Karl von Habsburg, will most likely be laid to rest, he sometimes has to pay the nearly $10 entrance fee like other tourists.
“It’s a little crazy,” he said, laughing. “It’s my lying place, but I still have to pay to visit.”
What Is Monarchy Today, Anyway?
Of course, royalty is in the air, with the coronation of King Charles III of England on Saturday. But the coronation is happening at a time when people are questioning exactly what a monarch of any country actually does.
In Charles’ case, “yes, there is a throne,” said Rachel Burchfield, contributing royal editor to Marie Claire, “but are the monarchs puppets or puppet masters?”
All of the British working royals have causes they care about — Charles is famous for his work on climate change; William, Prince of Wales, has the Earthshot Prize; and Catherine, Princess of Wales, focuses on early childhood development — but much of what they still do is walkabouts, tours and ribbon cuttings.
“They may not be able to make political change, but they have influence,” Burchfeld said.
“Kate even has enormous influence even by the clothes she wears,” she added.
The Habsburgs aren’t close to the British royals, said Robert Seydel, an Austrian historian and royal expert, which is perhaps why they were not invited to the coronation. “The Catholic monarchies kind of stick together, and the other monarchies stick together.” The British royal family oversees the Church of England; Charles is now the supreme governor. Habsburg is a Catholic — a progressive one, he said — so devout that he carries a rosary with him at all times.
Other royal families no longer have thrones. For example, there is still a queen of Greece, Queen Anne-Marie, even though the monarchy was abolished in 1973 and she holds no power. (Her husband, King Constantine II of Greece, died in January. They both lived in exile for decades, only moving back to Greece in 2013.)
“There are many cases of people who were born into a royal family and are technically a prince or princess, but their family isn’t on the throne,” Burchfield said. With no official role, their situations — what work they do, what titles they have — vary. Some royal experts call them “royal adjacent.”
The Life of a Royal (Adjacent)
Habsburg has a name fit for a king — Ferdinand Zvonimir Maria Balthus Keith Michael Otto Antal Bahnam Leonhard von Habsburg-Lothringen — but no palaces, no crown and no golden carriages to go with it.
He also has a title: archduke of Austria, royal prince of Hungary, and would be addressed as Imperial and Royal Highness if only Austrian law didn’t make it illegal for him to use it in the country. (The admirers who slide into his DMs and address him as “Imperial” and “Royal Highness” don’t seem to care.)
Habsburg has no role in government and no diplomatic power. Yet he sometimes meets with the pope and represents the family at Vatican gatherings, where he is given a seat of honor. (Eduard Habsburg, a relative, is Hungary’s ambassador to the Holy See.)
Habsburg will oversee one thing when his father dies: the Order of the Golden Fleece, an order of chivalry founded in 1430 (all members are males and Christian). Members, including multiple heads of state, meet once a year to discuss the important issues of the world.
“It’s like a think tank,” von Habsburg, the father, said.
Habsburg runs in some royal circles — “I know the royal family in Bulgaria quite well, because my sister went to school with some” — but feels uncomfortable being part of others.
“I have my friends,” he said, and they include the owner of a natural wine bar, a painter and a puppeteer for the opera.
‘I Get to Live a Different Life’
There is, of course, the complex reality that the most traumatic event to happen to his family — losing the empire — is what gave him something he cherishes: his freedom.
“My grandfather, he was the last crown prince. He had to grow up with his dad as emperor and his mom, empress,” Habsburg said. “As a kid he had to have all the training and learn 10 languages, and it’s hard work being a royal. It’s all events and openings and hospital visits.”
“I’m so proud of my family and what they’ve done,” he said. “But I get to live a different life.”
Habsburg was born in Salzburg, Austria, to von Habsburg, a politician, and Francesca von Thyssen-Bornemisza, an art collector and curator. His parents are divorced; his father, 62, lives in Vienna and Porto, Portugal, and his mother, 64, lives in Madrid. Besides his roommate Gloria, a documentary film producer, Habsburg has one other sister: Eleonore Habsburg D’Ambrosio, 29, a jewelry designer who lives in Oxford, England, with her husband, Jérôme D’Ambrosio, a former Formula E driver.
The Habsburgs — there are about 600 of them living today, he said — try to keep in touch.
“We have a WhatsApp group,” Habsburg said. “I can travel anywhere in the world, and I text the group and say where I’m going and when, and there is a house I can stay at.” He added with a laugh, “It’s like a free Airbnb for us Habsburgs.”
The freedom is something that might make certain other royals jealous.
“Ferdinand doesn’t have a throne, but he has individualized power,” Burchfield said. “For these other royals where the throne is active, they don’t have a ton of power; they are very much boxed in.”
There is one person who is delighted Habsburg gets to pursue his passions: Kathleen Schurmans, co-chief executive of his racing team, WRT: “If there was an empire he wouldn’t be able to race cars.”
Indeed, on a recent weekend morning, Habsburg was at the track at Portimao, in the Algarve region of Portugal, working his way around the garage before a race. There were some 60 mechanics and engineers, many of whom he greeted by name, pulling one into a hug.
Habsburg is so magnanimous and upbeat around the racetrack he once got publicly called out by Formula One driver Nyck de Vries for not acting serious enough.
“I dealt with it by trying to outperform him,” Ferdinand said, laughing. (He said they now have a good relationship.)
Ever since he got into a go-kart at the age of 7, Habsburg has been addicted to motor sports.
“I was like, every single day asking the nanny to drive me to go-karting,” he said. He got good enough grades at the Danube International School, his private high school, to get by so he could spend more time on the tracks. He skipped university to move to London and join an F3 team, one of the starting points for those with F1 aspirations.
He got into endurance racing instead, whose races last six to 24 hours. (Drivers work as a team, taking turns making hundreds of laps.) In 2021 he won Le Mans, a 24-hour race in northwestern France that is widely considered to be the world’s most prestigious sports-car race.
Before drivers are salaried, they have to raise a hefty amount of money — six or even seven figures — to join a team. Many have independent funds or relentlessly court sponsors who dictate their whereabouts.
When Habsburg first started, he was funded by his mother. Von Thyssen-Bornemisza’s family had made a fortune in steel and energy. Now he has all the sponsors he needs, he said.
“I won’t have to ask my mom for money again.”
Like Father, Sort of Like Son
Karl von Habsburg is warm. In Portimao, he was beaming at his son when he was racing and gave him a huge hug after he came in a devastating seventh place. But he’s also a serious person, having been born in exile in Bavaria.
“When I was growing up, I was an Austrian citizen and had an Austrian passport,” he said, “but it came with the remark that it was valid for all countries in the world except Austria.”
His grandfather, Charles I, tried twice to regain the Hungarian crown in 1921 without success. Some staff members still referred to his father, Otto, as Imperial Highness.
Both von Habsburg and his father found solace serving in the European Parliament.
“Otto and Karl have worked very, very hard on the process of bringing these former eastern European communist countries back to Europe again to work together,” said Mario Christian Ortner, an Austrian military historian. “This was also one of the main missions of the Habsburg empire, to get these different nations to work together.”
In the interwar period and during World War II, the House of Habsburg “was a vehement opponent of the Nazis,” Seydel said. Otto, in particular, campaigned against the Nazis in France and the United States so much so that the Nazis ordered an arrest warrant against him. He also used his connections to help tens of thousands of Austrians, including 15,000 Jews, escape. Von Habsburg is currently working to rally Europe to help Ukraine.
Overall, von Habsburg feels a strong responsibility to serve people, whether it’s his family or Europeans, however he can.
“What I want to instill in all the members of the family is that if you are suddenly in the position where you have to take responsibility for your society, you should be taking it,” he said.
His son has gotten the message. Habsburg has a campaign, Drive Fast, Act Faster, that encourages racing teams to reduce and offset their carbon emissions. His current team, WRT, switched to green energy at its factory and uses fuel made from waste products of the wine industry.
In Vienna Habsburg is part of a Catholic community, Center John-Paul II, who are trying to make holy places approachable for young people. He prides himself on being open to those who may not be accepted in more traditional Catholic circles.
“It doesn’t matter if you’ve had a criminal record or been divorced or had an abortion or are gay,” Habsburg said. “It’s just about loving each other.”
He does not second-guess his family’s circumstance.
“I’ve had the privilege to grow up without that feeling of loss,” he said. “My dad kind of gave me permission to enjoy it, all the history.”
When he does wonder what it would be like if the empire still existed, it’s more of a casual curiosity.
“It’s like, ‘Hmm, that would have been interesting,’” he said. “Then I go back to living my life.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Families & family life; Castles & palaces; Royalty; Diplomatic & consular services

Location: Portugal; England; Hungary; Greece; Austria; United Kingdom--UK

Identifier / keyword: De Vries, Nyck; Algarve (Portugal); Religion And Belief; Europe; Schonbrunn Palace (Vienna, Austria); Lifestyle; Royal Families; Palaces And Castles; Salzburg (Austria); Austria; International Automobile Federation; Wines; Bavaria (Germany); Great Britain; Church Of England; World War Ii (1939 45); Greece; United States; Anne, Queen Of Great Britain (1665 1714); Ukraine; London (England); Madrid (Spain); Catherine, Duchess Of Cambridge; Nineteen Hundred Twenties; Seydel, Robert (1960 2011); Airbnb; Politics And Government; Danube River; Charles Iii, King Of The United Kingdom; Automobiles; Bulgaria; Balthus; Sustainable Living; Gold; Holocaust And The Nazi Era; Marie Claire (Magazine); Seville (Spain); England; Formula E Holdings Ltd; Whatsapp Inc; Wales; Formula One; Edward Viii, King Of Gt Brit And Ireland; Art; Global Warming; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Roman Catholic Church; Portugal; Grandparents; Hugging; Habsburg, Eduard; International Relations; Madeira (Portugal); Oxford (England); John Paul Ii; Legislatures And Parliaments; Hungary; Oporto (Portugal); Constantine Ii, King Of Greece (1940 2023); Private And Sectarian Schools; Automobile Racing; France; Travel And Vacations; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; European Parliament; Le Mans Auto Race; Vienna (Austria); Age, Chronological

Title: The Prince With No Throne

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-06T16:54:45Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810193232

Document URL: https://w ww.proquest.com/newspapers/prince-with-no-throne/docview/2810193232/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Stumbles at Home, DeSantis Heads Abroad to Find His Footing: [National Desk]

Author: Weisman, Jonathan; Kingsley, Patrick; Nehamas, Nicholas

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan; Kingsley, Patrick; Nehamas, Nicholas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-stumbles-at-home-desantis-heads-abroad-find/docview/2806713346/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Florida governor is finishing a whirlwind trip from Asia to Israel to London, asserting a muscular foreign policy voice, especially in Jerusalem, as the spotlight on him grows brighter.
Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida gave social media a goofy grimace, suggested that Ukraine and Russia seek a cease-fire and praised the policies of former President Donald J. Trump, the man he would need to beat for the Republican presidential nomination, even as he attacked President Biden's foreign policy.
Mr. DeSantis's whirlwind trip abroad this week was meant to elevate his credentials as a statesman and heavyweight, while taking him away from the hurly-burly of a fledgling presidential campaign that he has not officially begun.
But if Mr. DeSantis thought it would give him a reprieve from scrutiny, he was mistaken. His trip, which has taken him to Tokyo, Seoul, Jerusalem and, finally, London, with events there on Friday, has been free of any overt gaffes or obvious embarrassments. But his words have been parsed and compared with those of rivals and previous presidential hopefuls. His facial expressions have been examined. Even the placement of his hands has not escaped the notice of the international news media.
"There are people who will always be critical, but I don't worry about that," said Kenneth T. Cuccinelli, a former Trump administration official who now leads Mr. DeSantis's super PAC. "He's showing himself to be a guy who can go toe-to-toe around the world."
Mr. DeSantis's foreign trip, ostensibly a trade mission with some loftier moments intentionally mixed in, no doubt has come at an awkward political moment. Senior Republicans have continued to move toward Mr. Trump, and the head of the Senate Republicans' campaign arm, Senator Steve Daines of Montana, recently endorsed him. Mr. DeSantis's position in Republican primary polls has slipped. Key donors have expressed serious misgivings about the governor's chances, and the largest employer and taxpayer in his state, Walt Disney, has sued him.
Mr. DeSantis needs coverage from conservative media if he hopes to cut into Mr. Trump's lead, but it has largely ignored his travels. Newsmax did, however, give prominent billing to Mr. Trump's mockery of his rival's "emergency Round the World tour," which Mr. Trump said was to "see if he can remove the stain from his failing campaign."
But Mr. DeSantis also got much of what he wanted, including meetings with the prime ministers of Japan, South Korea and Israel; news conferences with an international backdrop; and, on Thursday, an address at a Jerusalem conference for Israel's 75th anniversary.
In a sense, Mr. DeSantis's trip is a nod to traditional presidential campaigning, before Mr. Trump threw that script in the trash in 2016. In 2008 after they had their presidential nominations sewn up, Senator John McCain and his Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama, both visited Israel. At the time tongues wagged over Mr. Obama's decision to tour the occupied West Bank and Mr. McCain's decision not to.
"It was certainly designed to demonstrate his readiness to grapple with many of the challenges he would face," said Dan Shapiro, who put together and managed Mr. Obama's trip and ultimately became his ambassador to Israel, "particularly for a candidate who had not been on the international stage for a long time and was running against a decades-long foreign policy voice in John McCain."
Mitt Romney, unsuccessfully seeking the Republican nomination, visited Israel in 2007, touring the Holocaust museum Yad Vashem. He returned in 2012, raising the ire of Palestinian leaders by suggesting that cultural differences explained why the Israelis were so much more economically successful than the Arabs under occupation.
"It's a box that everyone checks," said Francis Rooney, a former Republican congressman from Florida who was close with Mr. DeSantis when they served together in the House. "It's a chance for him to show the world, particularly the U.S. electorate, that he has some things to say on foreign policy."
For Mr. DeSantis, a pugilistic governor known mainly for domestic fights with corporations, educators and Democrats over social policy, the trip has been a chance to discuss foreign policy, though not without some controversy. In Japan, he criticized Germany for not doing enough to bolster Ukraine's self-defense, while raising the prospects of a bloody stalemate in Ukraine with echoes of the Battle of Verdun during World War I.
"You don't want to end up in, like, a Verdun situation, where you just have mass casualties, mass expense, and end up with a stalemate," he told a Japanese newspaper. "It's in everybody's interest to try to get to a place where we can have a cease-fire."
He praised the U.S.-Japan alliance to which Mr. Trump was at times hostile, and took some voter-pleasing jabs at China.
But the statecraft choreography was left mainly to Thursday's leg in Israel, which came at a fraught moment. Israel's new government, the most right-wing in its history, has drawn tens of thousands of protesters to the streets and alienated many American Jews. Mike Caruso, a Republican Florida state representative, said in an interview from Jerusalem that he rushed a bill through the Legislature in Tallahassee this week to increase criminal penalties for antisemitic and other bias crimes so the governor could sign it ceremonially in Jerusalem.
"They love him in Israel, I can tell you that," Mr. Caruso said. "I've never seen a more inviting crowd. When he walked into the room, it just lit up."
And at a news conference where Mr. DeSantis favored conservative outlets from the United States and Israel, he took a swipe at the Biden administration, criticizing the deterioration under Mr. Biden in relations between the United States and Saudi Arabia, and suggesting that Washington should avoid taking sides in Israel's domestic debate about the future of its judiciary. Mr. Biden has taken an increasingly vocal stance against efforts by the far-right Israeli government to assert greater control over the country's Supreme Court.
"We must also in America respect Israel's right to make its own decisions about its own governance," Mr. DeSantis said. "You're a smart country, you figure it out; it shouldn't be for us to butt into these important issues."
He also flagged his efforts as governor in targeting Airbnb, after the travel listings company briefly removed from its website properties in the Israeli-occupied West Bank a few years ago. Mr. DeSantis also repeated his long-held position on the West Bank, which the governor says is "disputed" territory and which he referred to as "Judea and Samaria," the biblical name for the territory used by right-wing Israelis.
His stance is at odds with that held by most countries, which consider the West Bank occupied territory because it was captured by Israel from Jordan during the Arab-Israeli War of 1967.
But in embracing the Israeli far right and its positions on domestic and Middle Eastern affairs, Mr. DeSantis was obliquely praising the policies of the Trump administration. While never mentioning Mr. Trump by name, Mr. DeSantis tried to differentiate himself from his rival by noting that he had pushed the administration to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv, months before Mr. Trump decided to do so.
Mr. DeSantis also hailed the deals between Israel and the Persian Gulf states brokered by Mr. Trump, known as the Abraham Accords, and said that he supported efforts to secure a new one between Israel and Saudi Arabia.
"It would be petty of the governor to not acknowledge that accomplishment," Mr. Cuccinelli said, "and he is not petty."
The governor's performance in Israel could shore up his standing with conservative evangelical Christians, the most stalwart supporters of the Israeli right, as well as with wavering Republican donors. Miriam Adelson, a Republican megadonor who was part of the proceedings on Thursday in Jerusalem, has been a strong supporter of Mr. Trump, but since the death of her husband, the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, she has pulled back her giving to Republican candidates.
But in a world where nothing dies on the internet, said David Jolly, a former Republican House member from Florida who left his party in disgust during the Trump era, the most lasting image of Mr. DeSantis's trip might be the goofy face he made in Tokyo when asked about polls showing him well behind Mr. Trump. His answer -- "I'm not a candidate, so we'll see, if and when that changes" -- will be forgotten but his odd expression might not be.
"When confronted on the world stage, you saw him physically react and flail," Mr. Jolly said. "Those memes are going to live on for a long time."
Motoko Rich contributed reporting from Tokyo, and Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul.
Motoko Rich contributed reporting from Tokyo, and Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul.
Photograph Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, above, in Jerusalem on Thursday, signed state legislation to increase penalties for antisemitic and other bias crimes. Days earlier in Tokyo, left, Mr. DeSantis came under scrutiny for a face he made when asked about polls showing him well behind Donald J. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR LEVY/GETTY IMAGES; KIMIMASA MAYAMA) This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Conservatism; Nominations; Diplomatic & consular services; Antisemitism; Fines & penalties; Political campaigns; Governors; Presidential elections; Truces & cease fires; Foreign policy

Location: West Bank; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; Israel; Jerusalem Israel; Florida; Ukraine; Japan

People: McCain, John; DeSantis, Ron

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/27/us/politics/desantis-israel.html

Title: After Stumbles at Home, DeSantis Heads Abroad to Find His Footing:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 28, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2806713346

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-stumbles-at-home-desantis-heads-abroad-find/docview/2806713346/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Tender Maternal Act Subverted to Horror: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Macneill, Kyle

Publication info: Macneill, Kyle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tender-maternal-act-subverted-horror/docview/2805338987/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Infinity Pool," "Barbarian" and other films tap into conflicting attitudes about nursing, forcing us to confront our most primal fears.
Brandon Cronenberg's body-horror "Infinity Pool" is a movie that leaks. It's as viscous as it is vicious, fueled by endless fluids: blood, sweat, tears, urine, semen and vomit. When James (Alexander Skarsgard) and his wealthy wife, Em (Cleopatra Coleman), head to a luxury resort, they uncover a secret world of hedonism where rich tourists led by Gabi (Mia Goth) plumb new depths of depravity. It's the ending, though -- the movie's most tender moment -- that sticks. Following a feast of ultraviolence, Gabi bares her breast, covers it in blood and lets James suckle. Breastfeeding, it turns out, is the most horrifying act of them all.
While promoting the film, Skarsgard quipped that "being breastfed by Mia isn't something you get to do very often as an actor." Granted, but it's increasingly less rare. A slew of recent horror movies and series, including "Infinity Pool," "Barbarian," "Titane" and "The Baby," have featured erotic lactation, brutalized nipples and demonic nursing. Whether it's a source of simplistic scares or something richer, breastfeeding is being used to create viral horror moments, and, in the case of "Barbarian" and its $ 45 million box office take, cash cows.
There's no fixed formula for creating these scenes, the "Infinity Pool" intimacy coordinator Casey Hudecki explained. "I have facilitated the use of prosthetic breasts, prosthetic nipples, breastfeeding doubles, cheating camera angles to hide a lack of contact, or even taping a soother to a breast," she said, referring to a pacifier used to provide comfort while nursing. But she added, "No matter what our feelings are about breastfeeding, there is a primal or visceral connection to it, so it's a good way to get an audience off balance."
"Barbarian" (available on HBO Max) delights in this disorienting effect. In Zach Cregger's hit, the Airbnb guests Tess (Georgina Campbell) and Keith (Bill Skarsgard, Alexander's brother) uncover a sex dungeon complete with a TV showing a breastfeeding tutorial on a loop. Then they're attacked by the Mother, a pendulous-breasted product of incest. When their host, AJ (Justin Long) -- who has been accused of sexual assault -- heads home, he is "adopted" by the Mother, too. In several intense scenes, AJ and Tess are forced to feed from the Mother's bottle and, when AJ rejects it, her breast.
"It was the strangest self-tape that I'd ever sent to someone that I had just met," Matthew Patrick Davis, who plays the Mother, said in a video interview. "I was such a big fan of Justin Long. I didn't think then that in 20 years I'd be forcibly breastfeeding him in Bulgaria." (During the interview, he showed off a collection of fan art depicting the breastfeeding scene.)
For Davis, it's the twisted situation that makes breastfeeding in "Barbarian" especially sinister. "The act itself is beautiful and natural and primal, so taken into a different context it becomes strange," he said. But he argued that the "pretty creepy" image carries larger significance, conveying a sense of revenge for the rapes the Mother herself endured. When he's forced to breastfeed without his consent, "AJ gets a taste of his own medicine that happens to be mother's milk," Davis said.
Others aren't so convinced that "Barbarian" is doing something feminist. For Erin Harrington, the author of "Women, Monstrosity and Horror Film: Gynaehorror," the Mother is just another "abject maternal body acting as a punching bag," she said, adding, "Those images are blatantly designed to disgust, but in a manner that I don't think is particularly subversive."
She was far more impressed by "Titane," Julia Ducournau's electric body horror that won the Palme d'Or in 2021 (and is now streaming on Hulu). While it doesn't feature literal breastfeeding (aside from some sexual nipple biting) it does show the main character, Alexia (Agathe Rousselle), pregnant after having sex with a car, leaking motor oil from her breasts. "I found the images really provocative and celebratory," Harrington said.
Breastfeeding in horror didn't jump out of nowhere. It's featured in 1960s and '70s classics like "The Hills Have Eyes" (a mutant forcibly breastfeeds a woman), "The Wicker Man" (a nursing mother holding an egg appears in a dream sequence) and "Rosemary's Baby" (her demon child is fed her milk). The most disembodied example is Woody Allen's horror-spoof vignette in "Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)": a gargantuan breast on the loose from a lab sprays everything in its path with fresh milk.
Several movies and series have also turned the infant into the villain. In Paul Solet's 2009 "Grace" (for rent on most major platforms), a stillborn baby miraculously comes to life but craves blood rather than milk, lacerating her mother's bosom to get it. Last year's dark comedy-horror series "The Baby" (streaming on HBO Max) featured a particularly eye-watering dream scene in which the titular murderous infant bites off his mother's nipple as soon as he starts breastfeeding.
In "Infinity Pool" (available to rent on most major platforms) and "Barbarian," neither an infant nor an actual mother is involved, warping the nourishing act even further and creating a sense of perversion. "Horror puts a twisted magnifying glass on very natural images, like breastfeeding, and amplifies the complicated feelings that arise from motherhood," Anna Bogutskaya, the creator of the feminist horror podcast The Final Girls and author of "Unlikeable Female Characters," wrote in an email.
But why does it provoke such a visceral reaction? Back to those endless liquids; most of us find oozing fluids disconcerting. "Culturally we don't like it when bodies are leaky, and we especially don't like it when biologically female bodies are leaky. Horror loves leaky bodies in general," Harrington said. Or as Sarah Arnold, the author of "Maternal Horror Film: Melodrama and Motherhood," put it, "The 'leaking' body lacks boundaries, it is literally fluid and in flux."
A sense of the sexual also debases breastfeeding in horror. "Infinity Pool," "Titane" and "Barbarian" all blur the lines between sex and motherhood. "We have a cultural short circuit between the two, especially when we consider breasts and nipples as both source and site of sexual pleasure," Harrington said, while Hudecki, the intimacy coordinator, suggested that "adding a layer of kink may create a visceral dissonance."
There's a power dynamic at play here. Bogutskaya argued that the scene in "Infinity Pool" is about "female domination, not nurturing." When James becomes, as Mia puts it, a "sucky baby," he turns submissive and obedient. In "Barbarian," similarly, AJ's status is weakened, Davis said: "He's been infantilized and his agency has been removed."
Of course, totally natural breastfeeding can be met with horror, where public nursing is perceived as "largely abnormal in society," Arnold said. In this sense, just representing breastfeeding in any form can be provocative. "Horror gives us something that other genres can't: a sometimes dark, sometimes unpleasant take on emotions and experiences that are still too taboo to discuss openly," Bogutskaya said. Arnold, however, was wary that in these films violent, unnatural representations have dangerous "staying power" and can affect how we see a natural act.
Whether breastfeeding is a source of horror isn't just dependent on the director. It can be complicated for many mothers, too. "Having spent years breastfeeding my children, I'm sure I view it very differently than a man might," Hudecki said. "For me it was a primal need to feed my child, it was a beautiful time of connection, and it was also an endless, often painful, prison of responsibility."
It's this mass of contradictory effects -- the innocent, the infantile, the sexual, the healthy -- that makes for such a fertile source of inspiration. In the end, the imagery forces us to confront the scariest thing of all: our own origins.
"These images remind us of that -- that we have come from another's body, that we have at some stage been viscerally connected to another," Harrington said. "We like to think of ourselves as contained individuals. Our belly buttons say otherwise."
Photograph Clockwise from top: Mia Goth and Alexander Skarsgard in "Infinity Pool," which takes nursing in a horrifying direction; Agathe Rousselle in "Titane," which takes a more erotic approach; Justin Long in "Barbarian," which features several intense nursing scenes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEON; 20TH CENTURY STUDIOS) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Horror films; Eroticism; Motion pictures; Prostheses; Sex crimes; Breasts; Babies

People: Skarsgard, Alexander

Company / organization: Name: Warner Media LLC; NAICS: 512110, 517111, 517112

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/21/movies/horror-breastfeeding-barbarian-infinity-pool.html

Title: A Tender Maternal Act Subverted to Horror:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 25, 2023

column: Orter's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805338987

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tender-maternal-act-subverted-horror/docview/2805338987/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Reliable Digs For Distant Gigs: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kaufman, Joanne

Publication info: Kaufman, Joanne. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reliable-digs-distant-gigs/docview/2804560957/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Almost a decade ago, when Lorraine Toussaint auditioned to play Vee Parker, a character who figured prominently in the second season of the Netflix series "Orange Is the New Black," the gig was designated a "local hire" by the production company.
Translation: You must live within 60 miles of the shooting location. But the production has no obligation to get you there, lodge you there or pay you a per diem.
The "Orange Is the New Black" shooting location: New York City. Ms. Toussaint's location: Los Angeles.
She got the job and decided that the addition of a shiny new credit to her résumé would far outweigh the damage that moving costs and temporary rentals would do to her bank account. "It was an important career job for me, and it moved the needle," said Ms. Toussaint, now a series regular on the CBS drama "The Equalizer."
Actors who go out of town for work in the theater, on a television series or a movie have more to worry about than memorizing their lines: Where can they stay for the month, six months, a year that their contract specifies, and still stay within their budget?
The ease of the task depends on where they are in the cast or on the call sheet. Big names get the red carpet treatment -- a real estate agent to scout possibilities, amenity-rich apartments or houses in the location of their choice, and sometimes a car and driver.
Somewhat lesser lights may get a relocation stipend to cover the flights and the costs of getting set up in their temporary location, but they have to do their own house hunting. Others, like Ms. Toussaint, take a gamble and pay their own way.
In her case, both money and time were tight. She was due at Kaufman Astoria Studios, in Queens, within three or four days. At the time, she knew only of Craigslist, and cycled through three apartments during her tenure on the series, each one more ghastly than the last. She was forced to vacate a sublet on the Upper West Side when the leaseholder was evicted for nonpayment of rent. "He had kept the money I gave him rather than passing it on to the landlord," Ms. Toussaint said.
That particular place, she recalled, "was full of clumps of hairy material and a questionable stain on the bed. And the bathroom had peeling paint. I stood on a chair and used a spatula to rake chips off the ceiling."
"What can I tell you?" she added. "I was a struggling actor."
The High Life (or Maybe Not)
"Many performers coming to town may not want to feel they're just passing through," said Mickey Conlon, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman, who has helped big names find appropriate temporary quarters.
"It starts very broad and can get very granular: Does the place have Apple TV and a Netflix account? And suddenly we're in the audiovisual business," added Mr. Conlon, who with his husband and business partner, Tom Postilio, found a townhouse for Barry Manilow and his husband, Garry Kief, when Mr. Manilow came to New York from Palm Springs in 2013 and in 2019 to do limited-run shows.
"It really changed things," Mr. Manilow said. "We were able to have our dogs with us, and to have those creatures greet you at the door. We were out of town, but every night after the performance it felt like I was coming home."
The precise nature and quality of a performer's temporary residence are part of the compensation package. "These deals are negotiated on a case-by-case basis," said Ryan Conway, the owner of Architect Theatrical, a Broadway and Off Broadway general management firm.
During the pandemic, Mr. Conway said, a lot of actors moved out of New York with their families and put down roots elsewhere. "If they get cast in a show that will bring them back to New York, a housing stipend becomes pretty important," he said. "They may not take the job unless it makes sense to support two households. I'm having more of those conversations now."
It's one big headache for out-of-town actors who don't have a lot of money or bargaining chips and find that a stipend won't take them very far. Couch surfing puts a strain on backs and friendships. Rentals of less than a year are hard to come by, and rentals of less than 30 days are legally problematic. Working with a real estate broker often means paying a fee. (For perspective, most actors are not rich. The median wage for actors was $ 23.48 an hour in May 2021, according to the most recent data available from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.)
These days, many actors and other entertainment professionals turn to the Lee List, a by-invitation-only peer-to-peer platform that posts ads for the apartments and houses that its members are offering for rent in cities around the country and around the world. New York, Los Angeles, Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, Nashville, Santa Fe, N.M., Vancouver, B.C., Paris, and Tel Aviv (and Milford, Conn.) are just some of those represented.
A property is displayed along with a picture and relevant information -- for example the number of bedrooms, the amenities, when it will be available and for how long, and, of course, the rent. Interested parties fill out a contact form at the bottom of a posting.
The list is the creation of Heather Lee, a Los Angeles-based actor who relocated to New York when she was cast as Tessie Tura ("You Gotta Get a Gimmick") in the 2003 Broadway revival of "Gypsy," and vividly recalled the difficulty in nailing down a home. "I had to pick up my life and move, and in those days there was no Facebook, no Airbnb.
"I did get a moving stipend, but finding a place was up to me," continued Ms. Lee, who initially stayed with the friend of a friend, then through the friend of another friend, she found a rental she could afford on the Upper West Side.
Give 'em Shelter
The experience made her want to smooth the way for others. When actors booked a national tour or a job at a regional theater and sent out emails offering their homes for sublet, Ms. Lee diligently spread the word among her buddies.
Soon enough she was fielding emails from actors she didn't know. "Hey, I hear you've got this great contact list," began a typical message. "I have an apartment I'm trying to rent out for a few months. Would you send this notice out for me?" Or someone would write and say, "I just got a job and I'm scrambling for a place to live...."
Ms. Lee began forwarding these requests to others in her address book. Sometimes she would email the apartment hunters and ask when precisely they needed a place, in what part of New York City (or wherever) and for how long. "People started telling me I should start charging, but I wasn't looking for that," she said. "I just wanted to help my fellow artists."
And yet, as the inbox traffic grew to a jam, Ms. Lee decided, in 2009, to establish a dedicated Gmail account and charge $ 5 per email blast to what was then 300 colleagues. A Broadway producer friend came up with the name Lee List, and in 2013 -- with steady users then at 6,000 -- Ms. Lee launched the website that also acts as a marketplace for furniture, jobs and other goods and services.
The roster, which has grown to more than 20,000, includes writers, directors, choreographers, producers, designers, agents, grips, managers and actors -- among them Ms. Toussaint, who in early March was zeroing in on a "lovely flat" that would be available during an upcoming trip to London.
"It's cheaper than a hotel," said Jeff Greenberg, a casting director who, during one trip to New York from his home in Los Angeles, stayed in a theater district rental with impressive décor: the Tony Award won by the lease holder, Paul Kreppel, an actor, director and producer. "I'd never had a Tony as a roommate before," Mr. Greenberg said.
Lee List members are an international group, but with a concentration in New York and Los Angeles. Some 95 percent of the members are in the entertainment industry, but even if they're in another business, they've likely got some connection to the arts community -- for example, a yoga instructor with showbiz clients.
Ms. Lee says this all stands to reason: "The model is based on one degree of separation," she said. "Every member knows at least one other member."
So it seems. Cass and Andy Lilien (she's a jewelry designer, he's a director of photography) own and live in a building on the Lower East Side with two rental units, both popular on the Lee List. Currently in residence: Jonathan Glew, the associate director of a new Broadway production of "A Doll's House."
"Jonathan mentioned that he had worked on the recent London production of 'The Seagull,' " Ms. Lilien said. "and it just so happened that one of our regulars had been in the cast. So we took a selfie and sent it to her."
While someone at the Lee List reviews all the postings before they're uploaded, "we're not a real estate company. We don't take a commission," Ms. Lee said. "People agree to certain rules when they become a member -- that they will treat one another with respect. We expect that the pictures are an accurate representation of the property." Membership can be -- and has been -- revoked for conduct unbecoming, such as failing to honor the terms of a financial agreement.
The invitation request form asks questions like, How long have you known your friend? How did you meet? Are you work colleagues? What is the nature of your relationship now? Then there is an open-ended request: Tell us more about your friend. The form also asks for an identifying website link, such as an entry on the internet Broadway database (IBDB) or the internet movie database (IMDB) or LinkedIn.
Once welcomed to the fold, people can join for a month ( $ 14.95), for three months ( $ 39.95) or for a year ( $ 89.95). Membership allows Lee clients to view the real estate on offer.
In mid-March, there were 14 rental openings in Atlanta, including a guesthouse with a pool for $ 3,000, as well as 135 in Los Angeles and 22 in New York. A one-bedroom furnished apartment on the Lower East Side was going for $ 2,600 a month with a flexible end date, while a furnished studio in the same neighborhood will be available starting in late June for $ 5,750 a month. It is the responsibility of those renting out their apartments to follow the rules of their building and the laws of their municipality. In New York State for example, the multiple dwelling law prohibits short-term rentals (fewer than 30 days) in buildings with three or more units.
Some members get a little bit more, perhaps, than they bargained for.
When Beth Malone was cast as the adult version of Alison Bechdel in the original Broadway production of "Fun Home" in 2015, she and her wife, Rochelle Schoppert, posted their three-bedroom house in Los Angeles on the Lee List. Except for a few months here and there, the property has been rented out for the past eight years.
"I drive by my house and stalk it," said Ms. Malone, who's now part of the cast of the forthcoming Apple TV+ crime drama "City on Fire." "Because people from the Lee List are living there, we feel they're treating it better than others might.
"They invited us over, and we saw that they moved the furniture," she added. "And now it's cuter than when we lived there."
Photograph Heather Lee, above, created the Lee List site in 2013 to help her fellow actors find temporary homes in cities where they had work. Lorraine Toussaint, right, is one of 20,000 list members. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; CLARK HODGIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1); Andy Lilien, a director of photography, and his wife, Cass Lilien, a jewelry designer (below, at top left) own and live in a building on the Lower East Side with two units they often rent to Lee List members.; Andy and Cass Lilien rent out two units. 'I try to make the apartments really homey,' Ms. Lilien says.; Jonathan Glew rents his apartment from the Liliens. One of their regulars had worked with him in London. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLARK HODGIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Jeff Greenberg stayed in a New York theater district rental where the lease holder's Tony Award was on display. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Beth Malone, left, and her wife, Rochelle Schoppert, rent out their three-bedroom house in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Left, Lorraine Toussaint, another Lee List member, in "Orange Is the New Black." She cycled through three apartments during her tenure on the series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA MIGLIO/NETFLIX) (RE6) This article appeared in print on page RE1, RE6.

Subject: Electronic mail systems; Broadway theater; Actors; Rentals; Community theater; Apartments; Alliances

Location: New York City New York; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/21/realestate/actors-temporary-housing.html

Title: Reliable Digs For Distant Gigs:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 23, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804560957

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspap ers/reliable-digs-distant-gigs/docview/2804560957/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Japan's Empty Homes Are Selling for Cheap: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hornyak, Tim

Publication info: Hornyak, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/japans-empty-homes-are-selling-cheap/docview/2804209715/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With a shrinking population and more than 10 million abandoned properties, the country is straining to match houses with curious buyers.
When Jaya Thursfield found a house he wanted to buy in Japan a few years ago, friends and family told him to forget it. The place wasn't worth the trouble, they said. After all, it stood in a forest of shoulder-high weeds after being abandoned about seven years earlier -- one of the millions of vacant houses known as akiya, Japanese for "empty house" -- throughout the country.
But Mr. Thursfield, 46, an Australian software developer, wasn't deterred. Through the overgrown garden, he could see it was special: The black roof tiles cascaded down to slightly curving eaves that were much higher off the ground than those of most houses. The entrance hall had its own gabled tile roof. If the 2,700-square-foot house looked more like a Buddhist temple than a farmhouse, it's because it had been built by a temple architect in 1989.
Mr. Thursfield and his Japanese-born wife, Chihiro, had moved to Japan from London in 2017 with their two young sons and a dream of buying a home with a big yard. The plan was to purchase a vacant lot and build a house on it, but land is expensive in Japan and their budget wouldn't allow it. So they turned to the growing supply of abandoned houses, which are cheaper and often come with more land.
They're far from the only ones. "We would never have been able to afford a house of this quality and size if it wasn't an akiya," said Ms. Thursfield, 49. "And while many Japanese don't like used homes, foreigners see a house that is cheap and are more willing to reuse and renovate to their tastes and budget."
As Japan's population shrinks and more properties go unclaimed, an emerging segment of buyers, feeling less tethered to overcrowded cities, is seeking out rural architecture in need of some love. The most recent government data, from the 2018 Housing and Land survey, reported about 8.5 million akiya across the country -- roughly 14 percent of the country's overall housing stock -- but observers say there are many more today. The Nomura Research Institute puts the number at more than 11 million, and predicts that akiya could exceed 30 percent of all houses in Japan by 2033.
The Thursfields' house, which sits among the paddies in southern Ibaraki Prefecture, about 45 minutes from central Tokyo, had been deserted after the previous owner's family refused to inherit it upon the owner's death. The local municipality took it over and put it up for auction with a 5 million yen ( $ 38,000) minimum bid, but it failed to sell.
When it landed on the block again, Mr. Thursfield decided to try his luck. After giving it a quick inspection with an architect friend and finding no major issues despite the years of neglect, he nabbed the house for 3 million yen, about $ 23,000.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Houses in Japan typically decrease in value over time until they are worthless -- the cultural legacy of post-World War II construction and shifting building codes -- with only the land retaining value. Owners feel little incentive to maintain an aging house, and buyers often seek to demolish them and start fresh. But that can be expensive.
Others aim to preserve what's there. "There was no way we wanted to knock it down and build something new. It was too beautiful. So we decided to renovate instead," Mr. Thursfield said. "I've always been someone who likes to jump in the deep end, take a few risks, and learn new things, so I was confident that we would manage somehow."
Since buying the farmhouse in 2019, the couple have spent about $ 150,000 on renovations, and there's more to do. Mr. Thursfield has documented the project on YouTube, drawing more than 200,000 subscribers.
While the Thursfields' house had been abandoned by the previous owner's heirs, some homeowners die without ever naming an inheritor. Others leave their properties to relatives who refuse to sell family land out of respect for their elders, leaving the house to wither.
"In rural areas, there is a long history of ancestral owners of akiya living in the houses and on the land," said Kazunobu Tsutsui, a professor of rural geography and economics at Tottori University who lives in a renovated akiya built more than a century ago. "Therefore, even after moving to the city, families will not give up their akiya easily."
Now officials on both local and national levels are taking steps to give them a push.
"Poorly maintained akiya can mar the scenery as well as endanger residents' lives and property if they collapse," said Kazuhiro Nagao, a city official in Sakata, along the west coast, where heavy snowfall can damage unattended structures. "We're partly subsidizing demolitions, collecting neighborhood association reports on akiya, and trying to make owners aware of the problem by holding briefings."
Though the akiya problem has not had a direct impact on sales in urban markets, where high-rises continue to go up, the potential hazards to communities posed by empty houses are growing along with their numbers, according to Akira Daido, chief consultant at the Nomura Research Institute's Consulting Division. Mr. Daido pointed to a recent legal revision that allows local authorities to effectively raise the property taxes on neglected houses if the owners ignore municipal requests to maintain or demolish them. In another sign of rising concern, the government has approved a plan by the city of Kyoto, where inventory is tight yet some 15,000 houses sit empty, to tax the owners of those empty homes -- a first in Japan.
Akiya are increasingly seen not just as a threat to suburban and rural markets, but to the emotional health of the country, sparking family disputes over inherited properties. That, in turn, has led to a cottage industry of akiya consultants like Takamitsu Wada, the chief executive of Akiya Katsuyo, who acts as a counselor for squabbling relatives, often urging them to act before their properties become a lost cause.
"In many cases, the parents die without making clear their wishes regarding the family home, or they develop dementia and find it difficult to discuss these things," Mr. Wada said. "In such cases, the children may feel guilty about getting rid of the family home, and may often choose to leave it unoccupied."
Municipalities across Japan are also compiling listings of vacant houses for sale or rent. Known as "akiya banks," they are often bare-bones web pages with a few underwhelming photos. Some have partnered with private-sector companies like At Home, which currently lists akiya in 658 of Japan's 1,741 municipalities.
"Akiya banks are run by municipal office workers, the majority of which often do not have any experience in real estate," said, Matthew Ketchum, a Pittsburgh native and co-founder of Akiya & Inaka, a Tokyo-based real estate consultancy. "The existing solutions do not align with the needs of modern buyers and sellers."
Mr. Ketchum's firm is one of several that have sprung up to capitalize on the akiya glut, matching vacant homes with curious buyers. Akiya & Inaka's listings include a 2,195-square-foot home built in 1983 in the suburb of Hachioji, Tokyo, with a small garden and a reception room featuring a raised tatami floor, tokonoma alcove and a rare wickerwork ceiling of woven cedar. The property is listed at 36 million yen, about $ 272,000.
"Every Japanese agent we talked to advised us to demolish this place," said the house's owner, Takahiro Okada, 85, a retired journalist. He and his wife Reiko, 86, had been renting out the house but decided to sell after their tenant left last year. Their children weren't interested in it, so the property lingered. Different owners might have torn it down and sold the land.
"If we all do that, we're losing Japanese culture," Ms. Okada said. "When seen from an international perspective, and through the eyes of foreigners, Japanese things can have inherent uniqueness and value."
Mr. Ketchum and his partner, Parker J. Allen, said they're now fielding about five times the number of inquiries as when they began in 2020. "At first, we were getting most of our inquiries from Japan residents, Australians and Singaporeans," Mr. Ketchum said. "That has changed now, with the vast majority of our international clients being based in the U.S."
Many clients have been spurred by the pandemic, which "definitely changed the mind-set of people living in Japan regarding the idea of rural living," Mr. Allen said. "The fact that property in the Japanese countryside is by and large undervalued and there are viable properties that are almost turnkey has finally dawned on these people."
One person it did not dawn on recently is Alex Kerr, an author and Japanologist originally from Maryland, who became an akiya owner in 1973 when he acquired an abandoned country house (known as a minka) in the mountains of Shikoku, the smallest of Japan's four main islands, for $ 1,800.
Named Chiiori, or House of the Flute, the thatched-roof aerie is about 300 years old. Inside, it's a shadowy space of polished wood floorboards, a large sunken irori hearth and giant overhead rafters wreathed in smoke. Outside, mist rises from the Kumatani River in the gorge below.
Mr. Kerr, 70, is the first to admit that akiya can be money pits. He has spent decades and roughly $ 700,000 ("about half" of which came from a government grant, he said) maintaining it, and now rents it out as a guesthouse. It's one of about 40 derelict Japanese properties he has restored over the years, all the while preaching the importance of conservation and rural revitalization to municipalities, companies and homeowners who may not know what makes their properties special.
"Many cultures have wooden architecture, but when it comes to the techniques of carpentry, Japan overwhelmingly leads the world in joinery and use of materials, as well as use of space and choreography," said Mr. Kerr, whose books include the memoir "Lost Japan." "When it comes to old minka houses, you have all that, set in a natural environment, and within the context of being cheap. In the Cotswolds, wooden houses cost a fortune, but in Japan they're being thrown away."
But he has taken note as real estate companies have begun to snap up habitable antique houses and market them to non-Japanese luxury buyers. He also pointed to young international buyers opening Airbnb rentals in erstwhile akiya and attending events like minka conferences.
Last year, the British videographer Sam King and his wife, Nanami Sakurai, fled Tokyo with the help of an architect who introduced them to an unlisted akiya in the mountains of Otsuki, 50 miles west of Tokyo.
The couple wanted to be "closer to nature on our days off," said Mr. King, 35. "We also could not afford to buy so much as a shoe box in the city, so the thought of being able to get somewhere with a lot more space was very appealing so we can start a family and also own pets without any trouble."
The house, in a depopulated community of mostly older residents, had been abandoned for roughly two years after the death of its owner. The price was 12 million yen, or about $ 88,000.
Set in a garden among plum and kiwi trees, the cottage has traditional tatami mats, shoji-paper and fusuma sliding doors, chunky wooden cabinets and tokonoma alcoves. The previous owner left behind a trove of personal possessions -- paintings of Mt. Fuji, rolls of Japanese calligraphy, old tape players, kites, guitars, skis, crockery. The house is about 50 years old and needs to be updated to modern standards. Mr. King estimated the initial renovations, such as redoing the kitchen and bathroom, will cost $ 20,000 to $ 30,000. It's well worth it to escape the city.
"We'd like to improve upon it quite a bit as it's going to be our home, so we'll probably end up spending over $ 100,000 in total on the project," he said. "But we'll hopefully end up with our dream home."
Photograph Top, the interior of the Thursfields' home not far from Tokyo. They have put about $ 150,000 into it. Above, the same property in 2019, shortly after they bought it for $ 23,000. The previous owner's family refused to inherit it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW FAULK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1).; An akiya in the southern Japanese city of Nagasaki earlier this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM HORNYAK); Alex Kerr, top, bought an abandoned country house in 1973 in Shikoku, for $ 1,800. He rents it out as a guesthouse. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF ALEX KERR) (B6); Jaya Thursfield, an Australian software developer, moved to Japan in 2017 with his wife, Chihiro. At first they wanted to buy a vacant lot and build their own home, but the high land prices led them to explore the supply of abandoned houses. They bought a deserted property in Ibaraki Prefecture for $ 23,000. "We would never have been able to afford a house of this quality and size if it wasn't an akiya," he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW FAULK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Above left, Reiko, left, and Takahiro Okada in the house they're selling through Akiya & Inaka. "Every Japanese agent we talked to advised us to demolish this place," Mr. Okada said. Top right, the exterior of the Okadas' house, in the Hachioji area of western Tokyo. The property, which has a small garden and a raised tatami floor, is listed at 36 million yen, or about $ 272,000.; Matthew Ketchum and Parker J. Allen, the founders of Akiya & Inaka, in the Hachioji area of Tokyo. The company is capitalizing on the akiya glut, matching vacant homes with curious buyers. Most of their clients are based in the U.S. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW FAULK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6-B7) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6, B7.

Subject: Land surveys; Architecture; Rural areas; Abandonments

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture

Location: Japan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/17/realestate/japan-empty-houses.html

Title: Japan's Empty Homes Are Selling for Cheap:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804209715

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/japans-empty-homes-are-selling-cheap/docview/2804209715/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Japan Has Millions of Empty Houses. Want to Buy One for $25,000?

Author: Hornyak, Tim

Publication info: Hornyak, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/japan-has-millions-empty-houses-want-buy-one-25/docview/2804133297/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When Jaya Thursfield found a house he wanted to buy in Japan a few years ago, friends and family told him to forget it. The place wasn’t worth the trouble, they said. After all, it stood in a forest of shoulder-high weeds after being abandoned about seven years earlier — one of the millions of vacant houses known as akiya, Japanese for “empty house” — throughout the country.
But Thursfield, 46, an Australian software developer, wasn’t deterred. Through the overgrown garden, he could see it was special: The black roof tiles cascaded down to slightly curving eaves that were much higher off the ground than those of most houses. The entrance hall had its own gabled tile roof. If the 2,700-square-foot house looked more like a Buddhist temple than a farmhouse, it’s because it had been built by a temple architect in 1989.
Thursfield and his Japanese-born wife, Chihiro, had moved to Japan from London in 2017 with their two young sons and a dream of buying a home with a big yard. The plan was to purchase a vacant lot and build a house on it, but land is expensive in Japan and their budget wouldn’t allow it. So they turned to the growing supply of abandoned houses, which are cheaper and often come with more land.
They’re far from the only ones.
“We would never have been able to afford a house of this quality and size if it wasn’t an akiya,” Chihiro Thursfield, 49, said. “And while many Japanese don’t like used homes, foreigners see a house that is cheap and are more willing to reuse and renovate to their tastes and budget.”
As Japan’s population shrinks and more properties go unclaimed, an emerging segment of buyers, feeling less tethered to overcrowded cities, is seeking out rural architecture in need of some love. The most recent government data, from the 2018 Housing and Land survey, reported about 8.5 million akiya across the country — roughly 14% of the country’s housing stock — but observers say there are many more today. The Nomura Research Institute puts the number at more than 11 million, and predicts that akiya could exceed 30% of all houses in Japan by 2033.
The Thursfields’ house, which sits among the paddies in southern Ibaraki Prefecture, about 45 minutes from central Tokyo, had been deserted after the previous owner’s family refused to inherit it upon the owner’s death. The local municipality took over the property and put it up for auction with a 5 million yen ($38,000) minimum bid, but it failed to sell.
When it landed on the block again, Jaya Thursfield decided to try his luck. After giving it a quick inspection with an architect friend and finding no major issues despite the years of neglect, he nabbed the house for 3 million yen, about $23,000.
Houses in Japan typically decrease in value over time until they are worthless — the cultural legacy of post-World War II construction and shifting building codes — with only the land retaining value. Owners feel little incentive to maintain an aging house, and buyers often seek to demolish them and start fresh. But that can be expensive.
Others aim to preserve what’s there.
“There was no way we wanted to knock it down and build something new. It was too beautiful. So we decided to renovate instead,” Thursfield said. “I’ve always been someone who likes to jump in the deep end, take a few risks and learn new things, so I was confident that we would manage somehow.”
Since buying the farmhouse in 2019, the couple has spent about $150,000 on renovations, and there’s more to do. Thursfield has documented the project on YouTube, drawing more than 200,000 subscribers.
While the Thursfields’ house had been abandoned by the previous owner’s heirs, some homeowners die without ever naming an inheritor. Others leave their properties to relatives who refuse to sell family land out of respect for their elders, leaving the house to wither.
“In rural areas, there is a long history of ancestral owners of akiya living in the houses and on the land,” said Kazunobu Tsutsui, a professor of rural geography and economics at Tottori University who lives in a renovated akiya built more than a century ago. “Therefore, even after moving to the city, families will not give up their akiya easily.”
Now officials on both local and national levels are taking steps to give them a push.
“Poorly maintained akiya can mar the scenery as well as endanger residents’ lives and property if they collapse,” said Kazuhiro Nagao, a city official in Sakata, along the west coast, where heavy snowfall can damage unattended structures. “We’re partly subsidizing demolitions, collecting neighborhood association reports on akiya, and trying to make owners aware of the problem by holding briefings.”
Although the akiya problem has not had a direct impact on sales in urban markets, where high-rises continue to go up, the potential hazards to communities posed by empty houses are growing along with their numbers, according to Akira Daido, chief consultant at the Nomura Research Institute’s Consulting Division.
Daido pointed to a recent legal revision that allows local authorities to effectively raise the property taxes on neglected houses if the owners ignore municipal requests to maintain or demolish them. In another sign of rising concern, the government has approved a plan by the city of Kyoto, where inventory is tight yet some 15,000 houses sit empty, to tax the owners of those empty homes — a first in Japan.
Akiya are increasingly seen not just as a threat to suburban and rural markets but to the emotional health of the country, sparking family disputes over inherited properties. That, in turn, has led to a cottage industry of akiya consultants like Takamitsu Wada, CEO of Akiya Katsuyo, who acts as a counselor for squabbling relatives, often urging them to act before their properties become a lost cause.
“In many cases, the parents die without making clear their wishes regarding the family home, or they develop dementia and find it difficult to discuss these things,” Wada said. “In such cases, the children may feel guilty about getting rid of the family home, and may often choose to leave it unoccupied.”
Municipalities across Japan are also compiling listings of vacant houses for sale or rent. Known as “akiya banks,” they are often bare-bones web pages with a few underwhelming photos. Some have partnered with private-sector companies like At Home, which currently lists akiya in 658 of Japan’s 1,741 municipalities.
“Akiya banks are run by municipal office workers, the majority of which often do not have any experience in real estate,” said Matthew Ketchum, a Pittsburgh native and co-founder of Akiya & Inaka, a Tokyo-based real estate consultancy. “The existing solutions do not align with the needs of modern buyers and sellers.”
Ketchum’s firm is one of several that have sprung up to capitalize on the akiya glut, matching vacant homes with curious buyers. Akiya & Inaka’s listings include a 2,195-square-foot home built in 1983 in the suburb of Hachioji, Tokyo, with a small garden and a reception room featuring a raised tatami floor, tokonoma alcove and a rare wickerwork ceiling of woven cedar. The property is listed at 36 million yen, about $272,000.
“Every Japanese agent we talked to advised us to demolish this place,” said the house’s owner, Takahiro Okada, 85, a retired journalist. He and his wife, Reiko, 86, had been renting out the house but decided to sell after their tenant left last year. Their children weren’t interested in it, so the property lingered. Different owners might have torn it down and sold the land.
“If we all do that, we’re losing Japanese culture,” Reiko Okada said. “When seen from an international perspective and through the eyes of foreigners, Japanese things can have inherent uniqueness and value.”
Ketchum and his partner, Parker J. Allen, said they’re now fielding about five times the number of inquiries as when they began in 2020.
“At first, we were getting most of our inquiries from Japan residents, Australians and Singaporeans,” Ketchum said. “That has changed now, with the vast majority of our international clients being based in the U.S.”
Many clients have been spurred by the pandemic, which “definitely changed the mindset of people living in Japan regarding the idea of rural living,” Allen said. “The fact that property in the Japanese countryside is by and large undervalued and there are viable properties that are almost turnkey has finally dawned on these people.”
One person it did not dawn on recently is Alex Kerr, an author and Japanologist originally from Maryland, who became an akiya owner in 1973 when he acquired an abandoned country house (known as a minka) in the mountains of Shikoku, the smallest of Japan’s four main islands, for $1,800.
Named Chiiori, or House of the Flute, the thatched-roof aerie is about 300 years old. Inside, it’s a shadowy space of polished wood floorboards, a large sunken irori hearth and giant overhead rafters wreathed in smoke. Outside, mist rises from the Kumatani River in the gorge below.
Kerr, 70, is the first to admit that akiya can be money pits. He has spent decades and roughly $700,000 (“about half” of which came from a government grant, he said) maintaining it, and now rents it out as a guesthouse. It’s one of about 40 derelict Japanese properties he has restored over the years, all the while preaching the importance of conservation and rural revitalization to municipalities, companies and homeowners who may not know what makes their properties special.
“Many cultures have wooden architecture, but when it comes to the techniques of carpentry, Japan overwhelmingly leads the world in joinery and use of materials, as well as use of space and choreography,” said Kerr, whose books include the memoir “Lost Japan.” “When it comes to old minka houses, you have all that, set in a natural environment, and within the context of being cheap. In the Cotswolds, wooden houses cost a fortune, but in Japan they’re being thrown away.”
But he has taken note as real estate companies have begun to snap up habitable antique houses and market them to non-Japanese luxury buyers. He also pointed to young international buyers opening Airbnb rentals in erstwhile akiya and attending events like minka conferences.
Last year, British videographer Sam King and his wife, Nanami Sakurai, fled Tokyo with the help of an architect who introduced them to an unlisted akiya in the mountains of Otsuki, 50 miles west of Tokyo.
The couple wanted to be “closer to nature on our days off,” King, 35, said. “We also could not afford to buy so much as a shoebox in the city, so the thought of being able to get somewhere with a lot more space was very appealing so we can start a family and also own pets without any trouble.”
The house, in a depopulated community of mostly older residents, had been abandoned for roughly two years after the death of its owner. The price was 12 million yen, or about $88,000.
Set in a garden among plum and kiwi trees, the cottage has traditional tatami mats, shoji-paper and fusuma sliding doors, chunky wooden cabinets and tokonoma alcoves. The previous owner left behind a trove of personal possessions — paintings of Mount Fuji, rolls of Japanese calligraphy, old tape players, kites, guitars, skis, crockery. The house is about 50 years old and needs to be updated to modern standards. King estimated that the initial renovations, such as redoing the kitchen and bathroom, will cost $20,000 to $30,000. It’s well worth it to escape the city.
“We’d like to improve upon it quite a bit as it’s going to be our home, so we’ll probably end up spending over $100,000 in total on the project,” he said. “But we’ll hopefully end up with our dream home.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Land surveys; Architecture; Rural areas; Homeowners

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture

Location: Japan

Identifier / keyword: United States; Airbnb; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Population; Kitchens; Property Taxes; World; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); Collectors And Collections; Tokyo (Japan); World War Ii (1939 45); Great Britain; Architecture; Demolition; Nagasaki (Japan); London (England); Textiles; Flowers And Plants; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Local Government; Nomura Holdings Inc; YoutubeCom; Home Repairs And Improvements; Historic Buildings And Sites; Japan; Abandonment (Property); Real Estate (Commercial); Rural Areas; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Land Use Policies; Australia; Cotswolds (England); Tottori (Japan); Maryland; Kyoto (Japan); Luxury Goods And Services

Title: Japan Has Millions of Empty Houses. Want to Buy One for $25,000?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 21, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-21T22:32:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804133297

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/japan-has-millions-empty-houses-want-buy-one-25/docview/2804133297/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Google's Fight To Stay Ahead Of Bing's A.I.: [National Desk]

Author: Grant, Nico

Publication info: Grant, Nico. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/googles-fight-stay-ahead-bings-i/docview/2801857005/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The tech giant is sprinting to protect its core business with a flurry of projects, including updates to its search engine and plans for an all-new one.
Google's employees were shocked when they learned in March that the South Korean consumer electronics giant Samsung was considering replacing Google with Microsoft's Bing as the default search engine on its devices.
For years, Bing had been a search engine also-ran. But it became a lot more interesting to industry insiders when it recently added new artificial intelligence technology.
Google's reaction to the Samsung threat was "panic," according to internal messages reviewed by The New York Times. An estimated $ 3 billion in annual revenue was at stake with the Samsung contract. An additional $ 20 billion is tied to a similar Apple contract that will be up for renewal this year.
A.I. competitors like the new Bing are quickly becoming the most serious threat to Google's search business in 25 years, and in response, Google is racing to build an all-new search engine powered by the technology. It is also upgrading the existing one with A.I. features, according to internal documents reviewed by The Times.
The new features, under the project name Magi, are being created by designers, engineers and executives working in so-called sprint rooms to tweak and test the latest versions. The new search engine would offer users a far more personalized experience than the company's current service, attempting to anticipate users' needs.
Lara Levin, a Google spokeswoman, said in a statement that "not every brainstorm deck or product idea leads to a launch, but as we've said before, we're excited about bringing new A.I.-powered features to search, and will share more details soon."
Billions of people use Google's search engine every day for everything from finding restaurants and directions to understanding a medical diagnosis, and that simple white page with the company logo and an empty bar in the middle is one of the most widely used web pages in the world. Changes to it would have a significant impact on the lives of ordinary people, and until recently it was hard to imagine anything challenging it.
Google has been worried about A.I.-powered competitors since OpenAI, a San Francisco start-up that is working with Microsoft, demonstrated a chatbot called ChatGPT in November. About two weeks later, Google created a task force in its search division to start building A.I. products, said two people with knowledge of the efforts, who were not authorized to discuss them publicly.
Modernizing its search engine has become an obsession at Google, and the planned changes could put new A.I. technology in phones and homes all over the world.
The Samsung threat represented the first potential crack in Google's seemingly impregnable search business, which was worth $ 162 billion last year. Although it was not clear whether Microsoft's work with A.I. was the main reason Samsung was considering a change after the last 12 years, that was the assumption inside Google. The contract is under negotiation, and Samsung could stick with Google.
But the idea that Samsung, which makes hundreds of millions of smartphones with Google's Android software every year, would even consider switching search engines shocked Google's employees.
After some workers were told that the company was looking for volunteers this month to help put together material for a pitch to Samsung, they reacted with emojis and surprise. "Wow, OK, that's wild," one person responded.
A Google spokesperson said that the company was continuously improving its search engine to give users and partners more reason to choose Google, and that Android phone makers were free to embrace technologies from different companies to improve their users' experience.
Samsung and Microsoft declined to comment.
Google has been doing A.I. research for years. Its DeepMind lab in London is considered one of the best A.I. research centers in the world, and the company has been a pioneer with A.I. projects, such as self-driving cars and the so-called large language models that are used in the development of chatbots. In recent years, Google has used large language models to improve the quality of its search results, but held off on fully adopting A.I. because it has been prone to generating false and biased statements.
Now the priority is winning control of the industry's next big thing. Last month, Google released its own chatbot, Bard, but the technology received mixed reviews.
Plans for the new search engine, which demonstrate Google's ambitions to reimagine the search experience, are still in the early stages, with no clear timetable on when it will release the new search technology.
The system would learn what users want to know based on what they're searching when they begin using it. And it would offer lists of preselected options for objects to buy, information to research and other information. It would also be more conversational -- a bit like chatting with a helpful person.
But long before the search engine can be rebuilt, the Magi project will add features to the existing search engine, according to internal documents. Google has more than 160 people working full time on it, a person with knowledge of the work said.
Magi would keep ads in the mix of search results. Search queries that could lead to a financial transaction, such as buying shoes or booking a flight, for example, would still feature ads on their results pages.
That's important for Google, since search ads are the primary way it makes money. Its chatbot, Bard, does not feature ads, and there has been anticipation in the tech industry that A.I. answers on search engines could make ads less relevant to users.
The planned search additions could also answer questions about software coding and write code based on a user's request. Google may place an ad under the computer code answers, according to a document.
Last week, Google invited some employees to test Magi's features, and it has encouraged them to ask the search engine follow-up questions to judge its ability to hold a conversation. Google is expected to release the tools to the public next month and add more features in the fall, according to the planning document.
The company plans to initially release the features to a maximum of one million people. That number should progressively increase to 30 million by the end of the year. The features will be available exclusively in the United States.
Google has also explored efforts to let people use Google Earth's mapping technology with help from A.I. and search for music through a conversation with a chatbot, a Google director wrote in a document.
Other product ideas are in various stages of development. A tool called GIFI would use A.I. to generate images in Google Image results. Another tool, Tivoli Tutor, would teach users a new language through open-ended A.I. text conversations.
Yet another product, Searchalong, would let users ask a chatbot questions while surfing the web through Google's Chrome browser. People might ask the chatbot for activities near an Airbnb rental, for example, and the A.I. would scan the page and the rest of the internet for a response.
Jim Lecinski, a former Google vice president of sales and service, said the company had been goaded into action and now had to convince users that it was as "powerful, competent and contemporary" as its competitors.
"If we are the leading search engine and this is a new attribute, a new feature, a new characteristic of search engines, we want to make sure that we're in this race as well," Mr. Lecinski, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University, said in an interview.
Daisuke Wakabayashi, Karen Weise and Tripp Mickle contributed reporting.
Daisuke Wakabayashi, Karen Weise and Tripp Mickle contributed reporting.
Photograph Google has been worried about A.I.-powered competitors since OpenAI demonstrated a chatbot called ChatGPT in November. Now, Samsung is considering replacing Google with a new A.I.- infused Bing as a default search engine on its devices. A.I. competitors are Google's biggest threat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACKIE MOLLOY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LAURA MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Search engines; Employees; Chatbots; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/16/technology/google-search-engine-ai.html

Title: Google's Fight To Stay Ahead Of Bing's A.I.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801857005

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/googles-fi ght-stay-ahead-bings-i/docview/2801857005/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Google Devising Radical Search Changes to Beat Back AI Rivals

Author: Grant, Nico

Publication info: Grant, Nico. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/google-devising-radical-search-changes-beat-back/docview/2801780103/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — Google’s employees were shocked when they learned in March that South Korean consumer electronics giant Samsung was considering replacing Google with Microsoft’s Bing as the default search engine on its devices.
For years, Bing had been a search engine also-ran. But it became a lot more interesting to industry insiders when it recently added new artificial intelligence technology.
Google’s reaction to the Samsung threat was “panic,” according to internal messages reviewed by The New York Times. An estimated $3 billion in annual revenue was at stake with the Samsung contract. An additional $20 billion is tied to a similar Apple contract that will be up for renewal this year.
AI competitors such as the new Bing are quickly becoming the most serious threat to Google’s search business in 25 years, and in response, Google is racing to build an all-new search engine powered by the technology. It is also upgrading the existing one with AI features, according to internal documents reviewed by The New York Times.
The new features, under the project name Magi, are being created by designers, engineers and executives working in so-called sprint rooms to tweak and test the latest versions. The new search engine would offer users a far more personalized experience than the company’s current service, attempting to anticipate users’ needs.
Lara Levin, a Google spokesperson, said in a statement that “not every brainstorm deck or product idea leads to a launch, but as we’ve said before, we’re excited about bringing new AI-powered features to search, and will share more details soon.”
Billions of people use Google’s search engine every day for everything from finding restaurants and directions to understanding a medical diagnosis, and that simple white page with the company logo and an empty bar in the middle is one of the most widely used webpages in the world. Changes to it would have a significant impact on the lives of ordinary people, and until recently, it was hard to imagine anything challenging it.
Google has been worried about AI-powered competitors since OpenAI, a San Francisco startup that is working with Microsoft, demonstrated a chatbot called ChatGPT in November. About two weeks later, Google created a task force in its search division to start building AI products, said two people with knowledge of the efforts, who were not authorized to discuss them publicly.
Modernizing its search engine has become an obsession at Google, and the planned changes could put new AI technology in phones and homes all over the world.
The Samsung threat represented the first potential crack in Google’s seemingly impregnable search business, which was worth $162 billion last year. Although it was not clear whether Microsoft’s work with AI was the main reason Samsung was considering a change after the past 12 years, that was the assumption inside Google. The contract is under negotiation, and Samsung could stick with Google.
But the idea that Samsung, which makes hundreds of millions of smartphones with Google’s Android software every year, would even consider switching search engines shocked Google’s employees.
After some workers were told that the company was looking for volunteers this month to help put together material for a pitch to Samsung, they reacted with emoji and surprise. “Wow, OK, that’s wild,” one person responded.
A Google spokesperson said that the company was continuously improving its search engine to give users and partners more reason to choose Google and that Android phone makers were free to embrace technologies from different companies to improve their users’ experience.
Samsung and Microsoft declined to comment.
Google has been doing AI research for years. Its DeepMind lab in London is considered one of the best AI research centers in the world, and the company has been a pioneer with AI projects, such as self-driving cars and the so-called large language models that are used in the development of chatbots. In recent years, Google has used large language models to improve the quality of its search results but held off on fully adopting AI because it has been prone to generating false and biased statements.
Now, the priority is winning control of the industry’s next big thing. Last month, Google released its own chatbot, Bard, but the technology received mixed reviews.
Plans for the new search engine, which demonstrate Google’s ambitions to re-imagine the search experience, are still in the early stages, with no clear timetable on when it will release the new search technology.
The system would learn what users want to know based on what they’re searching when they begin using it. And it would offer lists of preselected options for objects to buy, information to research and other information. It would also be more conversational — a bit like chatting with a helpful person.
But long before the search engine can be rebuilt, Magi will add features to the existing search engine, according to internal documents. Google has more than 160 people working full time on it, a person with knowledge of the work said.
Magi would keep ads in the mix of search results. Search queries that could lead to a financial transaction, such as buying shoes or booking a flight, for example, would still feature ads on their results pages.
That’s important for Google, since search ads are the primary way it makes money. Bard does not feature ads, and there has been anticipation in the tech industry that AI answers on search engines could make ads less relevant to users.
The planned search additions could also answer questions about software coding and write code based on a user’s request. Google may place an ad under the computer code answers, according to a document.
Last week, Google invited some employees to test Magi’s features, and it has encouraged them to ask the search engine follow-up questions to judge its ability to hold a conversation. Google is expected to release the tools to the public next month and add more features in the fall, according to the planning document.
The company plans to initially release the features to a maximum of 1 million people. That number should progressively increase to 30 million by the end of the year. The features will be available exclusively in the United States.
Google has also explored efforts to let people use Google Earth’s mapping technology with help from AI and search for music through a conversation with a chatbot, a Google director wrote in a document.
Other product ideas are in various stages of development. A tool called GIFI would use AI to generate images in Google Image results. Another tool, Tivoli Tutor, would teach users a new language through open-ended AI text conversations.
Yet another product, Searchalong, would let users ask a chatbot questions while surfing the web through Google’s Chrome browser. People might ask the chatbot for activities near an Airbnb rental, for example, and the AI would scan the page and the rest of the internet for a response.
Jim Lecinski, a former Google vice president of sales and service, said the company had been goaded into action and now had to convince users that it was as “powerful, competent and contemporary” as its competitors.
“If we are the leading search engine and this is a new attribute, a new feature, a new characteristic of search engines, we want to make sure that we’re in this race as well,” Lecinski, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University, said in an interview.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Search engines; Artificial intelligence; Employees; Chatbots; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Employees

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Samsung Group; Electronics; Smartphones; Language And Languages; Openai Labs; Deepmind Technologies Ltd; Android (Operating System); Google Maps; New York Times; United States; Company Reports; Maps; Airbnb; Elections; Northwestern University; Apple Inc; Google Inc; South Korea; Search Engines; Online Advertising; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; San Francisco (Calif); Polls And Public Opinion; Software; Newspapers; Artificial Intelligence; Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Labor And Jobs; Business

Title: Google Devising Radical Search Changes to Beat Back AI Rivals

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-16T20:09:34Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801780103

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/google-devising-radical-search-changes-beat-back/docview/2801780103/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

She Proposed a New Act as Broadway Shuttered: [Society Desk]

Author: La Gorce, Tammy

Publication info: La Gorce, Tammy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-proposed-new-act-as-broadway-shuttered/docview/2801437349/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: While cooking a meal during the pandemic, Miki Abraham asked Alex Grayson, a fellow actor, if he wanted to get married. He quickly agreed -- once he was certain she meant it.
Miki Alden Abraham didn't show off her acting chops when she asked her former castmate Alex Joseph Grayson to marry her on Oct. 15, 2020. At the time, she was spooning something out of a crockpot in the Nashville apartment that they shared and thinking life couldn't get much worse.
Covid-19 had delivered blow after blow, said Ms. Abraham, who is currently a swing in Broadway's "Shucked." New York City theaters had shut down. Both had lost jobs. "I was stirring whatever I was making and eating out of the pot and I thought, 'You made it through all this with this guy,"' she said. Mr. Grayson, ambushed by the proposal on a pass through the kitchen, said yes not knowing whether she was serious.
Ms. Abraham, 31, and Mr. Grayson, 33, met on Sept. 6, 2019, on the first day of rehearsals for the national tour of the musical "Once on This Island" at Boulevard Carroll Studios in Manhattan. Both were understudies for multiple roles. When the cast hit the road a few days later, Mr. Grayson, who is now playing the principal role of Jim Conley in the Broadway revival of "Parade," was getting on Ms. Abraham's nerves.
"I was not looking to make any new best friends," she said. "I was trying to do my job. But everywhere I turned, Alex was there. It was annoying." Mr. Grayson hadn't meant to be overly friendly. But "when I enter a new environment, I try to engage with as many people as I can," he said. "I want to indicate, 'I'm open to collaboration. I'm a person you can talk to throughout this contract."'
She remained in eye-rolling mode until what she called her "talent crush" kicked in that December. At a karaoke bar between performances in Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Grayson sang "Hey, Soul Sister" by Train. The song didn't suit his vocal range. "It was a little high for him," Ms. Abraham said. "But the way he was navigating it -- musically, intelligently -- I thought, whoa, he somehow made the song sound better."
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
By the time the show shut down a few months later because of Covid, they were in love. Both left behind apartments in Brooklyn to quarantine at an Airbnb in Paducah, Ky. For Ms. Abraham, it was a homecoming: She grew up in Paducah and graduated in 2015 with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in acting from Northern Kentucky University.
For Mr. Grayson, who was born in Watertown, N.Y., and raised in a military family that moved frequently, it was a way to keep Ms. Abraham close. "From the beginning, I felt like, this is a person who has a great personality and is beautiful and funny," said Mr. Grayson, who earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts in musical theater from the State University of New York at Fredonia in 2014. "Miki has tremendous magnetism," he said.
A shared sense of hope was behind their July 2020 move from Paducah to Nashville. If the world opened up, they wanted to be in a city that could put entertainers to work. But Covid was still raging and jobs were sparse when, three months later, Ms. Abraham had her crockpot moment in the kitchen. "We had 10 minutes of going back and forth" about the proposal, Mr. Grayson said. "I said, 'Is this real? You mean right now?"' She didn't mean right then. But if she had, he still would have said yes.
"We've gone through all the lows, we go so well together," she said, explaining her improv proposal. "Maybe this is who I want to be with."
Ms. Abraham and Mr. Grayson were married on April 8 at the Conservatory Garden in Central Park -- close to the apartment they moved into in June 2021, when Broadway was showing signs of returning to life. A friend and fellow actor, Richard E. Waits, who became a Universal Life Church minister for the occasion, officiated a short outdoor ceremony for 60 guests.
At a reception at the Lofts at Prince, an events space in Manhattan, the couple sang a karaoke duet of Dan + Shay's "Speechless" -- nodding to their Nashville past and Ms. Abraham's present in the country music filled "Shucked.". Otherwise, the couple avoided anything performative on their wedding day. "When you're doing eight shows a week, that thirst is quenched," Mr. Grayson said. "This was more about sharing a sweet moment."
Photograph Miki Abraham, Alex Grayson (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIA BYINGTON AND DANIELLA SINDER) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Actors

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/14/style/micki-abraham-alex-grayson-wedding.html

Title: She Proposed a New Act as Broadway Shuttered:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437349

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-proposed-new-act-as-broadway-shuttered/docview/2801437349/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Announcing the End of Faking It in Silicon Valley: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/announcing-end-faking-silicon-valley/docview/2801437344/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Recent charges, convictions and sentences all indicate that the start-up world's habit of playing fast and loose with the truth actually has consequences.
SAN FRANCISCO -- Faking it is over. That's the feeling in Silicon Valley, along with some schadenfreude and a pinch of paranoia.
Not only has funding dried up for cash-burning start-ups over the last year, but now, fraud is also in the air, as investors scrutinize start-up claims more closely and a tech downturn reveals who has been taking the industry's "fake it till you make it" ethos too far.
Take what happened in the past two weeks: Charlie Javice, the founder of the financial aid start-up Frank, was arrested, accused of falsifying customer data. A jury found Rishi Shah, a co-founder of the advertising software start-up Outcome Health, guilty of defrauding customers and investors. And a judge ordered Elizabeth Holmes, the founder who defrauded investors at her blood testing start-up Theranos, to begin an 11-year prison sentence on April 27.
Those developments follow the February arrests of Carlos Watson, the founder of Ozy Media, and Christopher Kirchner, the founder of software company Slync, both accused of defrauding investors. Still to come is the fraud trial of Manish Lachwani, a co-founder of the software start-up HeadSpin, set to begin in May, and that of Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of the cryptocurrency exchange FTX, who faces 13 fraud charges later this year.
Taken together, the chorus of charges, convictions and sentences have created a feeling that the start-up world's fast and loose fakery actually has consequences. Despite this generation's many high-profile scandals (Uber, WeWork) and downfalls (Juicero), few start-up founders, aside from Ms. Holmes, ever faced criminal charges for pushing the boundaries of business puffery as they disrupted us into the future.
The funding downturn may be to blame. Unethical behavior can largely be overlooked when times are good, as they were for tech start-ups in the 2010s. Between 2012 and 2021, funding to tech start-ups in the United States jumped eightfold to $ 344 billion, according to PitchBook, which tracks start-ups. More than 1,200 of them are considered "unicorns" worth $ 1 billion or more on paper.
But when the easy money dries up, everyone parrots the Warren Buffett proverb about finding out who is swimming naked when the tide goes out. After FTX filed for bankruptcy in November, Brian Chesky, the chief executive of Airbnb, updated the adage for millennial tech founders: "It feels like we were in a nightclub and the lights just turned on," he tweeted.
In the past, the venture capital investors who backed start-ups were reluctant to pursue legal action when they were duped. The companies were small, with few assets to recover, and going after a founder would hurt the investors' reputations. That has changed as the unicorns have soared, attracting billions in funding, and as larger, more traditional investors including hedge funds, corporate investors and mutual funds have entered the investing game.
"There is more money at stake, so it just changes the calculus," said Alexander Dyck, a professor of finance at the University of Toronto who specializes in corporate governance.
The Justice Department has also been urging prosecutors to "be bold" in its pursuit of more business frauds, including at private start-ups. Thus, charges for founders of Frank, Ozy Media, Slync and HeadSpin and expectations of more to come.
IRL, a messaging app that investors valued at $ 1 billion, is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission for allegedly misleading investors about how many users it had, according to reporting from The Information. Rumby, a laundry delivery start-up in Ohio, allegedly fabricated a story of financial success to secure funding, which its founder used to buy himself a $ 1.7 million home, according to a lawsuit from one of its investors.
News outlets have also reported unethical behavior at start-ups including Olive, a $ 4 billion health care software start-up, and Nate, an e-commerce start-up claiming to use artificial intelligence. A spokeswoman for Olive said the company has "disputed and denied" the reported allegations.
All of this creates an awkward moment for venture capital investors. When start-up valuations were soaring, they were seen as visionary kingmakers. It was easy enough to convince the world, and the investors in their funds -- pension funds, college endowments and wealthy individuals -- that they were responsible stewards of capital with the unique skills required to predict the future and find the next Steve Jobs to build it.
But as more start-up frauds are revealed, these titans of industry are playing a different role in lawsuits, bankruptcy filings and court testimonies: the victim that got duped.
Alfred Lin, an investor at Sequoia Capital, a top Silicon Valley firm that put $ 150 million into FTX, reflected on the cryptocurrency disaster at a start-up event in January. "It's not that we made the investment, it's the year-and-a-half working relationship afterwards that I still didn't see it," he said. "That is difficult."
Venture capital investors say their asset class is among the riskiest places to park money but holds the potential for outsize rewards. The start-up world celebrates failures, and if you're not failing, you're viewed as not taking enough risks. But it is unclear whether that defense will hold as the scandals become more humiliating for everyone involved.
Investors are increasingly asking consultants like RHR International to help identify the telltale signs of "Machiavellian narcissists" who are more likely to commit fraud, said Eden Abrahams, a partner at the firm. "They want to tighten up the protocols around how they're assessing founders," Ms. Abrahams said. "We had a series of events which should be prompting reflections."
Start-ups have many of the conditions most associated with fraud, Mr. Dyck said. They tend to employ novel business models, their founders often have significant control and their backers do not always enforce strict oversight. It is a situation that's ripe for bending the rules when a downturn hits. "It's not surprising we're seeing a lot of frauds being committed in the last 18 months are coming to light right now," he said.
When Ms. Javice was trying to sell her college financial planning start-up, Frank, to JPMorgan Chase, she told an employee not to share exactly how many people used Frank's service, according to an S.E.C. complaint. Later, she asked the employee to fabricate thousands of accounts, assuring her staff that such a move was legal and that no one would end up in "orange jumpsuits," the complaint said.
After JPMorgan bought the start-up for $ 175 million in 2021, Frank's investors were quick to take a congratulatory victory lap on Twitter. "So many more students & families will now have greater access to financial aid & #highered opportunities," an investor at Reach Capital wrote. "It's so exciting to know you will now have an even bigger platform to make a positive impact on the lives of so many people!" was the praise from an executive at Chegg, which invested.
Ms. Javice faces four counts of fraud. This past week, JPMorgan accused her of transferring money to a shell company after the bank uncovered her alleged fraud.
Outcome Health, which sold drug ads on screens in doctors' offices, raised $ 488 million from investors including Goldman Sachs, the Google-affiliated fund CapitalG and the family of Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois while making public claims of breakneck growth and profitability. In reality, the company had missed its revenue targets, was struggling to manage its debt load and was overbilling its customers.
Yet investors plowed money in anyway and even allowed Outcome Health's co-founders, Mr. Shah and Shradha Agarwal, to cash out $ 225 million worth of shares. One of the company's smaller investors, Todd Cozzens of Leerink Partners, said he was not deterred by red flags like missing revenue targets and other "sloppiness," because "they could have cleaned that up." The company crossed into fraud when it altered a sales report, which would have been difficult for outsiders to detect, he said.
"This was a great business model and the product was working, but these founders got really greedy," he said. "They wanted more." Mr. Cozzens' firm lost 90 percent of its $ 15 million investment.
Mr. Shah was convicted of 19 counts of fraud and Ms. Agarwal of 15. A spokesman for Mr. Shah said that the verdict "deeply saddens" him and that he plans to appeal. Ms. Agarwal's counsel said they were reviewing the verdict and considering her options.
Slync's founder, Mr. Kirchner, lied to investors about Slync's business performance and used the money raised to buy himself a $ 16 million private jet, among other misappropriations, according to an S.E.C. complaint. When one investor dug into Slync's finances, Mr. Kirchner told the person that Slync was in the process of switching to a new financial service provider, the complaint said. The investor wired $ 35 million.
A Slync spokesman said the company has appointed a new chief executive, is cooperating with the government's investigations, and "looks forward to a just resolution of this matter."
FTX raised nearly $ 2 billion from top investors including Sequoia Capital, Lightspeed Venture Partners and Thoma Bravo, giving it a valuation of $ 32 billion. The company was so poorly run that it didn't even have a complete list of people who worked there, according to a report issued by the company's new management this month. Mr. Bankman-Fried told colleagues at one point that FTX's sister hedge fund, Alameda Research, was "unauditable" and that the team sometimes found $ 50 million in assets lying around that they had lost track of. "Such is life," he wrote.
Sequoia, which commissioned a glowing profile of Mr. Bankman-Fried to publish on its website, apologized to investors after the company collapsed. It also deleted the profile.
Mr. Lin explained at the start-up event that venture capital industry was ultimately a business based on trust. "Because if you don't trust the founders that you work with," he said, "why would you ever invest in them?"
Photograph Top, Charlie Javice, who is accused of falsifying customer data. Above left, Elizabeth Holmes (center), who was ordered to begin an 11-year prison sentence. Above right, Carlos Watson (center), who has been accused of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Left, Rishi Shah, who was found guilty of defrauding customers and investors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAWRENCE NEUMEISTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS; JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS; SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS; ANTONIO PEREZ/CHICAGO TRIBUNE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU5.

Subject: Digital currencies; Bankruptcy; Convictions; Startups; Funding; Fraud; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Bankruptcy Startups Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Outcome Health; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/15/business/silicon-valley-fraud.html

Title: Announcing the End of Faking It in Silicon Valley:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

column: News Analysis

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437344

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/announcing-end-faking-silicon-valley/docview/2801437344/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Sword Is Still Stuck in the Stone: [Review]

Author: Green, Jesse

Publication info: Green, Jesse. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sword-is-still-stuck-stone/docview/2800446869/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A revival of the 1960 musical with the famously great score and infamously bad book gets a gorgeous makeover that makes no difference.
About 30 minutes into its 90-minute first act, the Lincoln Center Theater revival of "Camelot" finally wakes up, as if from a pleasant drowse. That's when Jordan Donica, as Lancelot, who has arrived in England to join King Arthur's Round Table, tears into the boastful "C'est Moi" like a lion ripping huge bites of dramatic flesh with his teeth.
And then, apparently sated, the show, which opened Thursday at the Vivian Beaumont Theater, goes back to sleep for another spell, as if this were "Brigadoon."
If only it were! But "Camelot," the 1960 Lerner and Loewe musical based on T.H. White's Arthurian tales, has what you might call a post-operetta problem. Neither content to be agreeable piffle nor ready to be Sondheimesque psychodrama, it aims for a middle path, welding Arthur's romantic life with a free-spirited queen to his rethinking of governance with a recalcitrant gentry. Both fail, as does the show, in a way that "Brigadoon," the team's 1947 hit, aiming lower, does not.
In "Camelot," the clever, lightweight style of Lerner's dialogue, and the show-off triple rhymes of his lyrics, clash with his ambition. They make Loewe's profoundly polished music, in songs like "I Wonder What the King Is Doing Tonight?" and "The Simple Joys of Maidenhood," which open the show, come off as charming tea party tunes. Only in flashes does the "serious" part recover, but by then it's too late. After Lancelot finishes "C'est Moi," the story goes back to bed for 40 minutes, at last reawakening to the clangs of a thrilling sword fight.
That's not a problem a rewrite could readily solve, or at any rate it's not one that Aaron Sorkin did. His revisions for the director Bartlett Sher's spare-no-expense production -- visually and sonically gorgeous -- do make some improvements. The silly supernatural subplots have been excised (along with a beautiful song, "Follow Me") and Guenevere, Arthur's involuntary queen, has been strengthened with snappy backtalk. She's now a kind of medieval Katharine Hepburn.
But Sorkin cannot solve the riddle of the love triangle connecting Guenevere (Phillipa Soo) to the boyish Arthur (Andrew Burnap) on one side and the hunky Lancelot on the other. The riddle is: When is a triangle a flat line? Because only by rigging up questions of fidelity that make everyone look silly does Lerner's plot engine turn over at all. Is Arthur still in love with the sorceress Morgan Le Fey, a woman he hasn't seen since he was 15? Does Guenevere desire Lancelot? Who doesn't? And why, in any case, should we care?
Sorkin tries to shore up Lerner's droopy stories by rooting the personal conflict in the political and social experiments of the time -- or of some time, anyway. The new book, which is set on "the eve of the Enlightenment," even though that was about a millennium post-Arthur, is not fussy about period. Indeed, it winks at its muddled chronology: "The Middle Ages won't end by itself," Arthur says, as if he knew he were middling.
The historical backfill is present in White's and Lerner's versions, too: The idea of changing a culture of violence to one of justice is at the heart of the story. (It's the reason Arthur convenes his knights.) The problem is that the musical doesn't musicalize that, which is why after an hour of brittleness you desperately need the sword fight. (The fight director, still full of surprises, is the great B.H. Barry.) Even the title number, which Sorkin has Guenevere call "that stupid song about the weather," praises the Camelot revolution in purely sybaritic terms. "The rain may never fall till after sundown" sounds like a boast on Airbnb.
Lacking songs to support them, Sorkin's historical enhancements fall flat. Particularly unconvincing is his sidebar on the evolution of magic into science, with Merlyn (Dakin Matthews, excellent) now a sage, not a wizard, and Morgan (Marilee Talkington) some kind of chemist. (Let's not even get into Mordred, the mortifying Plot Necessity played by Taylor Trensch.) Forced to maintain the Lerner framework, he can neither justify the romantic story on modern terms nor distract from it in ways that make musical sense.
The romance at least gives the principals something to do besides spouting ideas, and gives the audience, especially with Lancelot, something to hear. (After "C'est Moi," he sings the almost-too-rich "If Ever I Would Leave You" and "I Loved You Once in Silence.") And though Guenevere mostly gets the tea party numbers, delivered creamily, and Arthur (perhaps in deference to the vocal talents of the role's originator, Richard Burton) gets almost nothing, both are appealing and play the West Wing of the Castle banter beautifully.
Not that there's a castle. In this, his fifth Golden Age musical revival, and fourth for Lincoln Center Theater, Sher has changed his visual approach. Not so much the costumes, by Jennifer Moeller, which are just as stunning as ever; if you wear velvet gowns or quilted tabards, you'll want to collect them all. But instead of scenic coups like the orchestra reveal in "South Pacific" and the 52-foot ship in "The King and I," the set designer Michael Yeargan, the lighting designer Lap Chi Chu and the projection designers at 59 Productions have pared everything to a few basic elements: arches, screens, snow, branches, shadows and "Seventh Seal" silhouettes.
With so little furniture onstage, Sher, incapable of not making pretty pictures, keeps everyone moving busily; if the story refuses to make a triangle, he'll compensate with dozens in his blocking. However fascinating that is to watch, the result feels abstract and analytical, of a piece with Byron Easley's dainty choreography and, not to harp on them, Lerner's lyrics. For "My Fair Lady" Lerner was able to find words that expressed character and period; in "Camelot" (with no underlying Shaw play to assist) he finds words that mostly express himself, on the bubble of the 1960s, sophisticated and dry.
That is not, however, what you hear coming from the pit, where, under Kimberly Grigsby's baton, 30 musicians play the original orchestrations by Robert Russell Bennett and Philip J. Lang. Their superb characterization of the story in pure sound makes you feel what the show onstage doesn't.
It may also make you feel a bit sad. What's to be done with such beautiful work, wedded to such intractable problems? How many more Golden Age musicals can Sher and Lincoln Center Theater lavish their love on before the project turns into Encores! with elephantiasis? Is Kelli O'Hara in "Flahooley" next?
Well, to be honest, I'd be there for that. But "Camelot" is a show promoted above its station because of its music and Kennedy-era associations. Neither, it seems, is sufficient today. When Arthur reports, in "How to Handle a Woman," that the answer is simply to "love her, love her, love her," you can't help thinking Lerner is not in his wheelhouse. (He married eight times.) Love, with both people and musicals, isn't enough when the differences are irreconcilable.
Camelot
At the Vivian Beaumont Theater, Manhattan; lct.org. Running time: 2 hours 50 minutes.
Camelot Through WHEN?????? at the Vivian Beaumont Theater in Manhattan; lct.org. Running time: 2 hours 50 minutes.
Photograph Andrew Burnap as Arthur and Phillipa Soo as Guenevere in "Camelot," a revival revised by Aaron Sorkin and directed by Bartlett Sher. (C1); Above, Jordan Donica as Lancelot. Right, Phillipa Soo as Guenevere. As the rewrite man, Aaron Sorkin does his best to shore up Alan Jay Lerner's droopy old stories. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4.

Subject: Theater; Musical theater

People: Soo, Phillipa; Sorkin, Aaron

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/13/theater/review-camelot.html

Title: The Sword Is Still Stuck in the Stone:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 2800446869

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sword-is-still-stuck-stone/docview/2800446869/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Have Eggs, Will Travel. To Freeze Them.: [Style Desk]

Author: Krueger, Alyson

Publication info: Krueger, Alyson. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/have-eggs-will-travel-freeze-them/docview/2799965193/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Faced with the high cost of egg-freezing in their home countries, some women are going abroad for a better deal, and a vacation.
It's hardly uncommon for Americans to travel to London over the summer, where they watch tennis at Wimbledon, say, or take pictures of Big Ben or dine on champagne and scones at Claridge's.
But the women whose trips are being planned by a new company called Milvia are going for a different reason: to freeze their eggs.
Every detail of their trip, from their flights to their hormonal medication to their doctor's appointments, is being arranged by Milvia, whose focus is to make egg freezing more accessible by bringing women to places where the procedure is cheaper.
The company estimates there are millions of women in the United States who want to freeze their eggs. But only a tiny percentage of them have been able to, said Abhi Ghavalkar, a founder and the chief executive of the company.
Egg freezing is a process that takes about two weeks and may allow a woman to extend her fertility. Typically the patient injects herself with hormones to stimulate the ovaries and then undergoes a procedure by a specialist to retrieve the eggs and put them on liquid nitrogen for future use.
Milvia found that in the United States, the entire process -- including the medications, the doctor visits and the average number of years of egg storage -- costs about $ 18,000, and most women can't count on health insurance to cover it. As of 2020, less than 20 percent of U.S. companies with more than 20,000 employees had health insurance plans to cover the procedure, according to Mercer Health News, though that figure rose from 2015 to 2020.
Many countries have clinics that are much cheaper. In the Czech Republic and Spain, for example, you can get one round of egg-freezing done for under $ 5,400, according to the website of Freeze Health, which provides information on egg freezing around the world.
Milvia is taking its first women to Britain, where prices hover in the $ 7,000 range, because "we wanted to start in a place where there is no language or cultural barrier," Mr. Ghavalkar said. "We also want to make sure we're in a place where all clinics operate at very high standards." The company hasn't finalized the price for its trip to Britain but hopes to keep it under $ 10,000.
Of course, while the patients will be there to freeze their eggs, they will have time to sight-see before the procedure. "You will be on hormones, so if you want to stay in the hotel, we can arrange that," Mr. Ghavalkar said. "If you want to do sightseeing, we can arrange that as well. We can introduce you to the other women if you want."
"I have worked as a tour guide in Scotland, so I can show people around," he added, laughing. "We want this to be a great experience for each person."
Milvia is formalizing a trend that has already taken hold: More women, in the United States and abroad, are traveling to freeze their eggs. Most are chasing lower prices, and some do it somewhere fabulous that they meant to go anyway.
Just as there are trendy places to go on vacation, there are now even egg freezing "hot spots," according to Jennifer Lannon, a founder of Freeze Health.
"I would say Mexico and Spain are the two hottest places right now," based on where people are searching, she said. "Mexico because if you are going somewhere nearby, it's close and just so much less expensive. Barcelona because it is such a sexy city, there is never a bad reason to go, but also it's the most advanced country in Europe for research and new developments."
According to the market research firm Grand View Search, the global fertility tourism market, including people traveling to the United States, is expected to grow at the rate of 30 percent over the next seven years, becoming a $ 6.2 billion industry by 2030.
Women who freeze their eggs abroad can choose to keep their eggs in that country where storage costs are usually cheaper. In Canada, for example, it can cost under $ 200 a year to store your eggs. In Spain you can do it for a little over $ 200. In Los Angeles, by contrast, a year of storage costs about $ 750. In New York City, it's more than $ 1,000, according to Freeze Health.
Many even return to the same clinic to do I.V.F., the process they have to go through if they want to use their eggs, because that is also less expensive in other countries.
There are also a few cheaper options domestically. CNY, for example, a fertility clinic with eight locations in the United States, tries to keep costs about $ 3,000 (which doesn't include medicine or pre-procedure monitoring).
Sixty-five percent of CNY's patients travel more than an hour to get there, the company said. "Probably the most number of travel patients we have are from the greater New York City area," said William Kiltz, a spokesman for the company. "We're just more affordable." The closest location to New York City is Albany.
Women who have traveled to freeze their eggs said it transforms the procedure, which can be arduous, into something that almost resembles a vacation.
Gillian Morris, 36, a software developer, flew from San Juan, P.R., to Madrid in June 2019 to do the procedure. "So many of my friends had big tech companies paying for their egg freezing, but I had my own company, so I couldn't afford it," she said. "I didn't think it was accessible to me until someone told me it costs about a fifth as much to do it in Spain."
After she posted her plans on social media, two friends ended up joining her to freeze their eggs as well. Two of them rented an Airbnb, and in between doctor's appointments (which happen every few days) and shots (which happen daily but can be done wherever), they acted like tourists, dining at trendy restaurants and visiting museums. Ms. Morris even took short trips to Valencia, a city along the Mediterranean Coast, and London.
She said that the clinic she went to, where the doctors and nurses spoke English, was more relaxing compared with American clinics. "After my procedure I was in a room of my own, which was lovely, and my friend came and sat with me and chatted," she said. "I was there for three hours, sort of processing until I took a scooter back to the Airbnb and went out for a nice dinner."
"It was really fun to turn this physical experience into a vacation and an opportunity to celebrate or explore or do something fun," she said.
Lauren Stevenson, 42, a public relations director who lives in London, traveled to Haugesund, in the fjords of Norway, to freeze her eggs after a friend found the clinic. Not only did this clinic charge one-third of the price as the clinics in London, she said, it was also in a place on her travel bucket list.
"People talk about egg freezing in such a negative way. It's intrusive, it's painful," she said. "I felt like if I was in a beautiful, serene place, it could actually be a different experience."
She, along with her partner (they ended up freezing embryos), went in November 2020 during peak foliage. "We would drive to the clinic, and even the drive would be so stunning," she said. She said she found it relaxing to do the procedure in a place so far removed from her busy city life in Britain.
Sidonia Rose Swarm, a founder of Freeze Health, said that women should book travel plans, especially flights and accommodation, that are flexible. "You have to go to blood tests and ultrasounds on the first day of your cycle, and they might not tell you it's not a good cycle to do it because you might not get a lot of eggs," she said.
And prospective patients should make sure their clinic is licensed, has English-speaking medical professionals and has a shipping partner that can send eggs to a storage facility in the United States.
Ms. Swarm also recommends bringing someone with you on your travels. "You won't feel well, you are going to be emotional, you are going to be pumped with hormones," she said. "You don't want to have to navigate a new place on top of this by yourself."
Ms. Stevenson described her experience as almost like going to a private fertility retreat. "I don't think you meet many people who say I can't wait to go back and get my frozen embryos," she said. "But that's how I feel." Gillian Morris flew from San Juan, P.R., to Madrid to freeze her eggs: "It was really fun to turn this physical experience into a vacation."; Left, the view from a fertility clinic in Haugesund, near the fjords of Norway, used by Lauren Stevenson, right, a Londoner. This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Hormones; Costs; Travel; Fertility; Eggs; Medical appointments; Vacations; Health insurance

Business indexing term: Subject: Costs Health insurance

Location: Mexico; Spain; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; New York City New York; Norway

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/08/style/egg-freezing-procedure-travel.html

Title: Have Eggs, Will Travel. To Freeze Them.:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 13, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2799965193

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/have-eggs-will-travel-freeze-them/docview/2799965193/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trying to Level the Playing Field in Tech: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Singer, Natasha

Publication info: Singer, Natasha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trying-level-playing-field-tech/docview/2795912764/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jalaun Ross, a computer science major at Central Connecticut State University, knew it would be difficult to land an internship at a prominent tech company this summer.
He had chosen to attend an affordable local public university, not a top computing school, and he did not know anyone in the industry who could put in a good word for him with tech recruiters.
Last summer, while interning at a financial services company, Mr. Ross spent several hours every evening preparing for the coding tests that tech firms use to weed out candidates. He ultimately applied to more than 200 internships, he said, but he did not receive a single offer from tech firms.
"College itself is a huge workload, especially for minorities and people of lower socioeconomic status," Mr. Ross said. "How can people who go to average state schools compete?"
Like attending an Ivy League university, obtaining a prestigious internship at a prominent tech company can confer lifelong advantages. Highly coveted software engineering internships at firms like Amazon or Google have been known to pay $ 24,000 or more for the summer, not including housing stipends. They can also offer compelling intellectual challenges, foster invaluable networking connections and lead to full-time job offers.
With sometimes more than 100,000 students applying for just thousands of slots, securing an elite tech internship can be as cutthroat as getting into Harvard.
Critics say the typical recruitment process at high-profile tech firms often gives an advantage to students at top computing colleges and those with industry connections -- just like elite private universities that heavily recruit from top high schools and favor the children of alumni. Wealthier intern candidates may also have more time and opportunity to polish their portfolios and sharpen their test-taking skills.
"Assumptions of privilege are baked into the system," said Ruthe Farmer, the founder and chief executive of the Last Mile Education Fund, a nonprofit organization that helps lower-income students in technical fields complete their college degrees. "It's biased toward students who have more free time to devote to side projects, hackathons and studying for technical interviews -- characteristics that conflate privilege with student potential."
(Ms. Farmer's nonprofit has received funding from Google, Microsoft and other tech firms.)
The intern selection process underscores longstanding inequities in Silicon Valley recruitment and hiring. This year, layoffs and cutbacks at leading tech companies have only narrowed intern opportunities, students say, exacerbating socioeconomic disparities. In response to a callout from The New York Times, nearly 300 people -- students, recent graduates and software engineers -- shared their experiences applying for tech internships and jobs, with some describing the process as "brutal," "unfair" or "disheartening."
To try to compete, dozens of students spent hours applying for more than 100 internships, practicing for internship coding tests or working on personal coding projects to try to impress recruiters, they said. More than half of the respondents said they had never heard back from the firms where they had applied for positions.
Some students at lesser-known public universities said they felt at a disadvantage compared with their peers at computer science powerhouses like Stanford, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Georgia Institute of Technology and the University of California, Berkeley. A few students said they had quit part-time jobs or neglected their course assignments to devote themselves to applying for tech internships -- only to receive no offers.
Some college students at higher-ranked computing programs reported more successful outcomes. Kien Pham, a student at the University of Minnesota, said he had spent much of the summer and fall intensively applying to more than 300 internships.
That included preparing for an interview with Amazon, he said, by spending the better part of two weeks writing down episodes from his life that matched the company's guiding values, known internally as leadership principles. He later accepted a software engineering internship offer from Amazon for this summer.
Some students noted socioeconomic disparities throughout the application process.
Tech companies like Microsoft and Google have internal referral systems in which employees may recommend candidates. Those referrals can help distinguish certain students among tens of thousands of applicants. But students at lesser-known schools often lack the kind of industry, family or elite university connections that can lead to employee referrals.
Another concern, Ms. Farmer said: The intern selection process may overlook or underestimate college students who have jobs.
Davita Bird, a computer science major at the Colorado School of Mines in the city of Golden, has studied half a dozen computer programming languages. In addition to her coursework, she has three part-time jobs: as a teaching assistant for a math course, as an instructor at a science and technology education program for girls and as a university event organizer.
Last semester, Ms. Bird devoted an hour every evening over two months to applying to 40 internships at Airbnb, Amazon, Google, Oracle and smaller firms. She did not hear back from a majority of them, she said.
"I am expected to be both a full-time student, work outside of class and spend about five hours a week doing a job search for an internship that can't even employ me for five months," Ms. Bird, who recently accepted a cloud computing internship at an electronics firm, wrote in comments to The Times. "I wish companies would at least give an email rejection."
The process may seem opaque to some students because large tech companies rarely disclose their intern acceptance rates or publish lists of the universities from which they recruit the highest number of interns.
In a recent interview, Vaishali Sabhahit, global head of university talent at Adobe, said the company typically received applications from more than 100,000 candidates for its summer internship program in the United States and hired about 600 interns. This year, the company started a separate internship program in cybersecurity with Bowie State University, a historically Black university in Maryland.
Apple did not respond to questions about its internship program. Microsoft and Meta declined to provide responses for this article.
In an email, Keyon Young, director of Amazon's student programs, said that the company took candidates' education and work experiences into account, but that it focused most on student alignment with the company's leadership principles. Last year, he said, Amazon hired the highest number of U.S. interns from top computing schools including Berkeley, Georgia Tech, the University of Washington and Carnegie Mellon University.
"Networking with current Amazonians is not a requirement for consideration," Mr. Young added.
To try to broaden opportunities, Oracle, Microsoft, Google, Meta, Amazon and other large tech companies have over the years set up a variety of introductory internship or mentorship programs for first- and second-year college students. These programs are intended to provide students from groups that are underrepresented in tech -- including female, Black, Latino and lower-income students -- with hands-on experience working on engineering projects.
Google's effort, the Student Training in Engineering Program, is designed to prepare students for professional internships. The program hosted several hundred students last year from 143 universities. A similar effort at Amazon, the Propel Program, has extended return internship or full-time job offers to successful interns, Mr. Young said.
Wealthier students may also have advantages in preparing for coding tests and technical interviews. To gear up for the assessments, many students practice their skills on LeetCode, a free test prep site that offers coding and algorithmic problems, along with detailed solutions.
The site also offers premium services. For $ 35 a month, it gives members access to specific problems that companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft previously used -- and some continue to use -- to assess applicants. To keep the questions up-to-date, the test prep service said, it regularly surveys members applying for tech positions.
Spending hours practicing on LeetCode, however, did not end up helping Mr. Ross at Central Connecticut State University. He described the experience of applying, and being rejected, for 200 technical internships as "heartbreaking."
"It made me feel this field wasn't for me," he said, "despite me enjoying computer science."
Still, Mr. Ross said he felt grateful for the opportunity to study and work in computing. He recently accepted a return internship offer from the financial services firm where he worked last summer.
Photograph Rose Shumba, chair of Bowie State's computer science department, with Roxan Rockefeller, a junior who worked last summer as a software engineering intern for a tech company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON ANDREW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Ruthe Farmer founded the Last Mile Education Fund, which offers help to lower-income students in technical fields. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

ERIC Subject: Private Colleges; College Students; Education Work Relationship; Technology Education; Part Time Employment; Financial Services; Internship Programs; Computer Science Education; Public Colleges; Educational Technology; State Universities; Agricultural Skills; Coding; Agricultural Occupations; State Schools; Programming Languages; Engineering Education; Computer Software; Universities

Subject: Internships; Socioeconomic factors; Computer science; Schools; Employment; College students; Recruitment; Financial services; Interviews; Software engineering; Education; Nonprofit organizations; Colleges & universities

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment Recruitment Financial services Colleges & universities

Location: United States--US; Georgia

Company / organization: Name: Georgia Institute of Technology; NAICS: 611310; Name: Central Connecticut State University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/05/business/tech-internship-application-grind.html

Title: Trying to Level the Playing Field in Tech:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2795912764

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trying-level-playing-field-tech/docview/2795912764/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Compa ny Apr 6, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Lower-Income Students, Big Tech Internships Can Be Hard to Get

Author: Singer, Natasha

Publication info: Singer, Natasha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lower-income-students-big-tech-internships-can-be/docview/2795825024/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Jalaun Ross, a computer science major at Central Connecticut State University, knew it would be difficult to land an internship at a prominent tech company this summer.
He had chosen to attend an affordable local public university, not a top computing school, and he did not know anyone in the industry who could put in a good word for him with tech recruiters.
Last summer, while interning at a financial services company, Ross spent several hours every evening preparing for the coding tests that tech firms use to weed out candidates. He ultimately applied to more than 200 internships, he said, but did not receive a single offer from tech firms.
“College itself is a huge workload, especially for minorities and people of lower socioeconomic status,” Ross said. “How can people who go to average state schools compete?”
Like attending an Ivy League university, obtaining a prestigious internship at a prominent tech company can confer lifelong advantages. Highly coveted software engineering internships at firms like Amazon or Google have been known to pay $24,000 or more for the summer, not including housing stipends. They can also offer compelling intellectual challenges, foster invaluable networking connections and lead to full-time job offers.
With sometimes more than 100,000 students applying for just thousands of slots, securing an elite tech internship can be as cutthroat as getting into Harvard.
Critics say the typical recruitment process at high-profile tech firms often gives an advantage to students at top computing colleges and those with industry connections — just like elite private universities that heavily recruit from top high schools and favor the children of alumni. Wealthier intern candidates may also have more time and opportunity to polish their portfolios and sharpen their test-taking skills.
“Assumptions of privilege are baked into the system,” said Ruthe Farmer, the founder and CEO of the Last Mile Education Fund, a nonprofit organization that helps lower-income students in technical fields complete their college degrees. “It’s biased toward students who have more free time to devote to side projects, hackathons and studying for technical interviews — characteristics that conflate privilege with student potential.”
The intern selection process underscores long-standing inequities in Silicon Valley recruitment and hiring. This year, layoffs and cutbacks at leading tech companies have only narrowed intern opportunities, students say, exacerbating socioeconomic disparities. In response to a callout from The New York Times, nearly 300 people — students, recent graduates and software engineers — shared their experiences applying for tech internships and jobs, with some describing the process as “brutal,” “unfair” or “disheartening.”
To try to compete, dozens of students spent hours applying for more than 100 internships, practicing for internship coding tests or working on personal coding projects to try to impress recruiters, they said. More than half of the respondents said they had never heard back from the firms where they had applied for positions.
Some students at lesser-known public universities said they felt at a disadvantage compared with their peers at computer science powerhouses like Stanford, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Georgia Institute of Technology and the University of California, Berkeley. A few students said they had quit part-time jobs or neglected their course assignments to devote themselves to applying for tech internships — only to receive no offers.
Some college students at higher-ranked computing programs reported more successful outcomes. Kien Pham, a student at the University of Minnesota, said he had spent much of the summer and fall intensively applying to more than 300 internships.
That included preparing for an interview with Amazon, he said, by spending the better part of two weeks writing down episodes from his life that matched the company’s guiding values, known internally as leadership principles. He later accepted a software engineering internship offer from Amazon for this summer.
Some students noted socioeconomic disparities throughout the application process.
Tech companies like Microsoft and Google have internal referral systems in which employees may recommend candidates. Those referrals can help distinguish certain students among tens of thousands of applicants. But students at lesser-known schools often lack the kind of industry, family or elite university connections that can lead to employee referrals.
Another concern, Farmer said: The intern selection process may overlook or underestimate college students who have jobs.
Davita Bird, a computer science major at the Colorado School of Mines in the city of Golden, has studied a half-dozen computer programming languages. In addition to her coursework, she has three part-time jobs: as a teaching assistant for a math course, as an instructor at a science and technology education program for girls and as a university event organizer.
Last semester, Bird devoted an hour every evening over two months to applying to 40 internships at Airbnb, Amazon, Google, Oracle and smaller firms. She did not hear back from a majority of them, she said.
“I am expected to be both a full-time student, work outside of class and spend about five hours a week doing a job search for an internship that can’t even employ me for five months,” Bird, who recently accepted a cloud computing internship at an electronics firm, wrote in comments to The Times. “I wish companies would at least give an email rejection.”
The process may seem opaque to some students because large tech companies rarely disclose their intern acceptance rates or publish lists of the universities from which they recruit the highest number of interns.
In a recent interview, Vaishali Sabhahit, global head of university talent at Adobe, said the company typically received applications from more than 100,000 candidates for its summer internship program in the United States and hired about 600 interns. This year, the company started a separate internship program in cybersecurity with Bowie State University, a historically Black university in Maryland.
Apple did not respond to questions about its internship program. Microsoft and Meta declined to provide responses for this article.
In an email, Keyon Young, director of Amazon’s student programs, said that the company took candidates’ education and work experiences into account but that it focused most on student alignment with the company’s leadership principles. Last year, he said, Amazon hired the highest number of U.S. interns from top computing schools including Berkeley, Georgia Tech, the University of Washington and Carnegie Mellon University.
“Networking with current Amazonians is not a requirement for consideration,” Young added.
To try to broaden opportunities, Oracle, Microsoft, Google, Meta, Amazon and other large tech companies have over the years set up a variety of introductory internship or mentorship programs for first- and second-year college students. These programs are intended to provide students from groups that are underrepresented in tech — including female, Black, Latino and lower-income students — with hands-on experience working on engineering projects.
Google’s effort, the Student Training in Engineering Program, is designed to prepare students for professional internships. The program hosted several hundred students last year from 143 universities. A similar effort at Amazon, the Propel Program, has extended return internship or full-time job offers to successful interns, Young said.
Wealthier students may also have advantages in preparing for coding tests and technical interviews. To gear up for the assessments, many students practice their skills on LeetCode, a free test prep site that offers coding and algorithmic problems, along with detailed solutions.
The site also offers premium services. For $35 a month, it gives members access to specific problems that companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft previously used — and some continue to use — to assess applicants. To keep the questions up to date, the test prep service said, it regularly surveys members applying for tech positions.
Spending hours practicing on LeetCode, however, did not end up helping Ross at Central Connecticut State University. He described the experience of applying, and being rejected, for 200 technical internships as “heartbreaking.”
“It made me feel this field wasn’t for me,” he said, “despite me enjoying computer science.”
Still, Ross said he felt grateful for the opportunity to study and work in computing. He recently accepted a return internship offer from the financial services firm where he worked last summer.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Private Colleges; College Students; Education Work Relationship; Technology Education; Part Time Employment; Personnel Selection; Financial Services; Internship Programs; Computer Science Education; Public Colleges; Educational Technology; State Universities; Agricultural Skills; Coding; Agricultural Occupations; State Schools; Programming Languages; Engineering Education; Universities

Subject: Internships; Socioeconomic factors; Computer science; Schools; Employment; College students; Recruitment; Financial services; Education; Software engineering; Interviews; Colleges & universities

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment Recruitment Financial services Colleges & universities

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; Georgia; Colorado

Company / organization: Name: Colorado School of Mines; NAICS: 611310; Name: Georgia Institute of Technology; NAICS: 611310; Name: Central Connecticut State University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Minorities; Cloud Computing; Tests And Examinations; Hiring And Promotion; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Black People; Education (K 12); Nepotism; Appointments And Executive Changes; University Of California, Berkeley; Internships; Harvard University; Georgia Institute Of Technology; Massachusetts; Banking And Financial Institutions; United States; Admissions Standards; Singer, Natasha; Agriculture And Farming; Income; Bowie State University; Careers And Professions; Airbnb; Historically Black Colleges And Universities; California; Nonprofit Organizations; Engineering And Engineers; Apple Inc; Google Inc; Summer (Season); Part Time Employment; Layoffs And Job Reductions; University Of Minnesota; Connecticut; AmazonCom Inc; University Of California; Computers And The Internet; Carnegie Mellon University; Vocational Training; Minnesota; Ivy League; Software; Income Inequality; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Foreign Students (In Us); Lab or And Jobs; University Of Washington; Stanford University; Colorado; Massachusetts Institute Of Technology; Oracle Corporation; Central Connecticut State University; Business; Colleges And Universities; Microsoft Corp; New York Times

Title: For Lower-Income Students, Big Tech Internships Can Be Hard to Get

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-05T22:55:31Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2795825024

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lower-income-students-big-tech-internships-can-be/docview/2795825024/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 5, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He's Not Worried, But He Knows You Are: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Metz, Cade

Publication info: Metz, Cade. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hes-not-worried-he-knows-you-are/docview/2793588468/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I first met Sam Altman in the summer of 2019, days after Microsoft agreed to invest $ 1 billion in his three-year-old start-up, OpenAI. At his suggestion, we had dinner at a small, decidedly modern restaurant not far from his home in San Francisco.
Halfway through the meal, he held up his iPhone so I could see the contract he had spent the last several months negotiating with one of the world's largest tech companies. It said Microsoft's billion-dollar investment would help OpenAI build what was called artificial general intelligence, or A.G.I., a machine that could do anything the human brain could do.
Later, as Mr. Altman sipped a sweet wine in lieu of dessert, he compared his company to the Manhattan Project. As if he were chatting about tomorrow's weather forecast, he said the U.S. effort to build an atomic bomb during the Second World War had been a "project on the scale of OpenAI -- the level of ambition we aspire to."
He believed A.G.I. would bring the world prosperity and wealth like no one had ever seen. He also worried that the technologies his company was building could cause serious harm -- spreading disinformation, undercutting the job market. Or even destroying the world as we know it.
"I try to be upfront," he said. "Am I doing something good? Or really bad?"
In 2019, this sounded like science fiction.
In 2023, people are beginning to wonder if Sam Altman was more prescient than they realized.
Now that OpenAI has released an online chatbot called ChatGPT, anyone with an internet connection is a click away from technology that will answer burning questions about organic chemistry, write a 2,000-word term paper on Marcel Proust and his madeleine or even generate a computer program that drops digital snowflakes across a laptop screen -- all with a skill that seems human.
As people realize that this technology is also a way of spreading falsehoods or even persuading people to do things they should not do, some critics are accusing Mr. Altman of reckless behavior.
This past week, more than a thousand A.I. experts and tech leaders called on OpenAI and other companies to pause their work on systems like ChatGPT, saying they present "profound risks to society and humanity."
And yet, when people act as if Mr. Altman has nearly realized his long-held vision, he pushes back.
"The hype over these systems -- even if everything we hope for is right long term -- is totally out of control for the short term," he told me on a recent afternoon. There is time, he said, to better understand how these systems will ultimately change the world.
Many industry leaders, A.I. researchers and pundits see ChatGPT as a fundamental technological shift, as significant as the creation of the web browser or the iPhone. But few can agree on the future of this technology.
Some believe it will deliver a utopia where everyone has all the time and money ever needed. Others believe it could destroy humanity. Still others spend much of their time arguing that the technology is never as powerful as everyone says it is, insisting that neither nirvana nor doomsday is as close as it might seem.
Mr. Altman, a slim, boyish-looking, 37-year-old entrepreneur and investor from the suburbs of St. Louis, sits calmly in the middle of it all. As chief executive of OpenAI, he somehow embodies each of these seemingly contradictory views, hoping to balance the myriad possibilities as he moves this strange, powerful, flawed technology into the future.
That means he is often criticized from all directions. But those closest to him believe this is as it should be. "If you're equally upsetting both extreme sides, then you're doing something right," said OpenAI's president, Greg Brockman.
To spend time with Mr. Altman is to understand that Silicon Valley will push this technology forward even though it is not quite sure what the implications will be. At one point during our dinner in 2019, he paraphrased Robert Oppenheimer, the leader of the Manhattan Project, who believed the atomic bomb was an inevitability of scientific progress. "Technology happens because it is possible," he said. (Mr. Altman pointed out that, as fate would have it, he and Oppenheimer share a birthday.)
He believes that artificial intelligence will happen one way or another, that it will do wonderful things that even he can't yet imagine and that we can find ways of tempering the harm it may cause.
It's an attitude that mirrors Mr. Altman's own trajectory. His life has been a fairly steady climb toward greater prosperity and wealth, driven by an effective set of personal skills -- not to mention some luck. It makes sense that he believes that the good thing will happen rather than the bad.
But if he's wrong, there's an escape hatch: In its contracts with investors like Microsoft, OpenAI's board reserves the right to shut the technology down at any time.
The Vegetarian Cattle Farmer
The warning, sent with the driving directions, was: "Watch out for cows."
Mr. Altman's weekend home is a ranch in Napa, Calif., where farmhands grow wine grapes and raise cattle.
During the week, Mr. Altman and his partner, Oliver Mulherin, an Australian software engineer, share a house on Russian Hill in the heart of San Francisco. But as Friday arrives, they move to the ranch, a quiet spot among the rocky, grass-covered hills. Their 25-year-old house is remodeled to look both folksy and contemporary. The Cor-Ten steel that covers the outside walls is rusted to perfection.
As you approach the property, the cows roam across both the green fields and gravel roads.
Mr. Altman is a man who lives with contradictions, even at his getaway home: a vegetarian who raises beef cattle. He says his partner likes them.
On a recent afternoon walk at the ranch, we stopped to rest at the edge of a small lake. Looking out over the water, we discussed, once again, the future of A.I.
His message had not changed much since 2019. But his words were even bolder.
He said his company was building technology that would "solve some of our most pressing problems, really increase the standard of life and also figure out much better uses for human will and creativity."
He was not exactly sure what problems it will solve, but he argued that ChatGPT showed the first signs of what is possible. Then, with his next breath, he worried that the same technology could cause serious harm if it wound up in the hands of some authoritarian government.
Mr. Altman tends to describe the future as if it were already here. And he does so with an optimism that seems misplaced in today's world. At the same time, he has a way of quickly nodding to the other side of the argument.
Kelly Sims, a partner with the venture capital firm Thrive Capital who worked with Mr. Altman as a board adviser to OpenAI, said it was like he was constantly arguing with himself.
"In a single conversation," she said, "he is both sides of the debate club."
He is very much a product of the Silicon Valley that grew so swiftly and so gleefully in the mid-2010s. As president of Y Combinator, the Silicon Valley start-up accelerator and seed investor, from 2014 to 2019, he advised an endless stream of new companies -- and was shrewd enough to personally invest in several that became household names, including Airbnb, Reddit and Stripe. He takes pride in recognizing when a technology is about to reach exponential growth -- and then riding that curve into the future.
But he is also the product of a strange, sprawling online community that began to worry, around the same time Mr. Altman came to the Valley, that artificial intelligence would one day destroy the world. Called rationalists or effective altruists, members of this movement were instrumental in the creation of OpenAI.
The question is whether the two sides of Sam Altman are ultimately compatible: Does it make sense to ride that curve if it could end in diaster? Mr. Altman is certainly determined to see how it all plays out.
He is not necessarily motivated by money. Like many personal fortunes in Silicon Valley that are tied up in a wide variety of public and private companies, Mr. Altman's wealth is not well documented. But as we strolled across his ranch, he told me, for the first time, that he holds no stake in OpenAI. The only money he stands to make from the company is a yearly salary of around $ 65,000 -- "whatever the minimum for health insurance is," he said -- and a tiny slice of an old investment in the company by Y Combinator.
His longtime mentor, Paul Graham, founder of Y Combinator, explained Mr. Altman's motivation like this:
"Why is he working on something that won't make him richer? One answer is that lots of people do that once they have enough money, which Sam probably does. The other is that he likes power."
'What Bill Gates Must Have Been Like'
In the late 1990s, the John Burroughs School, a private prep school named for the 19th-century American naturalist and philosopher, invited an independent consultant to observe and critique daily life on its campus in the suburbs of St. Louis.
The consultant's review included one significant criticism: The student body was rife with homophobia.
In the early 2000s, Mr. Altman, a 17-year-old student at John Burroughs, set out to change the school's culture, individually persuading teachers to post "Safe Space" signs on their classroom doors as a statement in support of gay students like him. He came out during his senior year and said the St. Louis of his teenage years was not an easy place to be gay.
Georgeann Kepchar, who taught the school's Advanced Placement computer science course, saw Mr. Altman as one of her most talented computer science students -- and one with a rare knack for pushing people in new directions.
"He had creativity and vision, combined with the ambition and force of personality to convince others to work with him on putting his ideas into action," she said. Mr. Altman also told me that he had asked one particularly homophobic teacher to post a "Safe Space" sign just to troll the guy.
Mr. Graham, who worked alongside Mr. Altman for a decade, saw the same persuasiveness in the man from St. Louis.
"He has a natural ability to talk people into things," Mr. Graham said. "If it isn't inborn, it was at least fully developed before he was 20. I first met Sam when he was 19, and I remember thinking at the time: 'So this is what Bill Gates must have been like."'
The two got to know each other in 2005 when Mr. Altman applied for a spot in Y Combinator's first class of start-ups. He won a spot -- which included $ 10,000 in seed funding -- and after his sophomore year at Stanford University, he dropped out to build his new company, Loopt, a social media start-up that let people share their location with friends and family.
He now says that during his short stay at Stanford, he learned more from the many nights he spent playing poker than he did from most of his other college activities. After his freshman year, he worked in the artificial intelligence and robotics lab overseen by Prof. Andrew Ng, who would go on to found the flagship A.I. lab at Google. But poker taught Mr. Altman how to read people and evaluate risk.
It showed him "how to notice patterns in people over time, how to make decisions with very imperfect information, how to decide when it was worth pain, in a sense, to get more information," he told me while strolling across his ranch in Napa. "It's a great game."
After selling Loopt for a modest return, he joined Y Combinator as a part-time partner. Three years later, Mr. Graham stepped down as president of the firm and, to the surprise of many across Silicon Valley, tapped a 28-year-old Mr. Altman as his successor.
Mr. Altman is not a coder or an engineer or an A.I. researcher. He is the person who sets the agenda, puts the teams together and strikes the deals. As the president of "YC," he expanded the firm with near abandon, starting a new investment fund and a new research lab and stretching the number of companies advised by the firm into the hundreds each year.
He also began working on several projects outside the investment firm, including OpenAI, which he founded as a nonprofit in 2015 alongside a group that included Elon Musk. By Mr. Altman's own admission, YC grew increasingly concerned he was spreading himself too thin.
He resolved to refocus his attention on a project that would, as he put it, have a real impact on the world. He considered politics, but settled on artificial intelligence.
He believed, according to his younger brother Max, that he was one of the few people who could meaningfully change the world through A.I. research, as opposed to the many people who could do so through politics.
In 2019, just as OpenAI's research was taking off, Mr. Altman grabbed the reins, stepping down as president of Y Combinator to concentrate on a company with fewer than 100 employees that was unsure how it would pay its bills.
Within a year, he had transformed OpenAI into a nonprofit with a for-profit arm. That way he could pursue the money it would need to build a machine that could do anything the human brain could do.
Raising '10 Bills'
In the mid-2010s, Mr. Altman shared a three-bedroom, three-bath San Francisco apartment with his boyfriend at the time, his two brothers and their girlfriends. The brothers went their separate ways in 2016 but remained on a group chat, where they spent a lot of time giving one another guff, as only siblings can, his brother Max remembers. Then, one day, Mr. Altman sent a text saying he planned to raise $ 1 billion for his company's research.
Within a year, he had done so. After running into Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief executive, at an annual gathering of tech leaders in Sun Valley, Idaho -- often called "summer camp for billionaires" -- he personally negotiated a deal with Mr. Nadella and Microsoft's chief technology officer, Kevin Scott.
A few years later, Mr. Altman texted his brothers again, saying he planned to raise an additional $ 10 billion -- or, as he put it, "10 bills." By this January, he had done this, too, signing another contract with Microsoft.
Mr. Brockman, OpenAI's president, said Mr. Altman's talent lies in understanding what people want. "He really tries to find the thing that matters most to a person -- and then figure out how to give it to them," Mr. Brockman told me. "That is the algorithm he uses over and over."
The agreement has put OpenAI and Microsoft at the center of a movement that is poised to remake everything from search engines to email applications to online tutors. And all this is happening at a pace that surprises even those who have been tracking this technology for decades.
Amid the frenzy, Mr. Altman is his usual calm self -- though he does say he uses ChatGPT to help him quickly summarize the avalanche of emails and documents coming his way.
Mr. Scott of Microsoft believes that Mr. Altman will ultimately be discussed in the same breath as Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg.
"These are people who have left an indelible mark on the fabric of the tech industry and maybe the fabric of the world," he said. "I think Sam is going to be one of those people."
The trouble is, unlike the days when Apple, Microsoft and Meta were getting started, people are well aware of how technology can transform the world -- and how dangerous it can be.
The Man in the Middle
In March, Mr. Altman tweeted out a selfie, bathed by a pale orange flash, that showed him smiling between a blond woman giving a peace sign and a bearded guy wearing a fedora.
The woman was the Canadian singer Grimes, Mr. Musk's former partner, and the hat guy was Eliezer Yudkowsky, a self-described A.I. researcher who believes, perhaps more than anyone, that artificial intelligence could one day destroy humanity.
The selfie -- snapped by Mr. Altman at a party his company was hosting -- shows how close he is to this way of thinking. But he has his own views on the dangers of artificial intelligence.
Mr. Yudkowsky and his writings played key roles in the creation of both OpenAI and DeepMind, another lab intent on building artificial general intelligence.
He also helped spawn the vast online community of rationalists and effective altruists who are convinced that A.I. is an existential risk. This surprisingly influential group is represented by researchers inside many of the top A.I. labs, including OpenAI. They don't see this as hypocrisy: Many of them believe that because they understand the dangers clearer than anyone else, they are in the best position to build this technology.
Mr. Altman believes that effective altruists have played an important role in the rise of artificial intelligence, alerting the industry to the dangers. He also believes they exaggerate these dangers.
As OpenAI developed ChatGPT, many others, including Google and Meta, were building similar technology. But it was Mr. Altman and OpenAI that chose to share the technology with the world.
Many in the field have criticized the decision, arguing that this set off a race to release technology that gets things wrong, makes things up and could soon be used to rapidly spread disinformation. On Friday, the Italian government temporarily banned ChatGPT in the country, citing privacy concerns and worries over minors being exposed to explicit material.
Mr. Altman argues that rather than developing and testing the technology entirely behind closed doors before releasing it in full, it is safer to gradually share it so everyone can better understand risks and how to handle them.
He told me that it would be a "very slow takeoff."
When I asked Mr. Altman if a machine that could do anything the human brain could do would eventually drive the price of human labor to zero, he demurred. He said he could not imagine a world where human intelligence was useless.
If he's wrong, he thinks he can make it up to humanity.
He rebuilt OpenAI as what he called a capped-profit company. This allowed him to pursue billions of dollars in financing by promising a profit to investors like Microsoft. But these profits are capped, and any additional revenue will be pumped back into the OpenAI nonprofit that was founded back in 2015.
His grand idea is that OpenAI will capture much of the world's wealth through the creation of A.G.I. and then redistribute this wealth to the people. In Napa, as we sat chatting beside the lake at the heart of his ranch, he tossed out several figures -- $ 100 billion, $ 1 trillion, $ 100 trillion.
If A.G.I. does create all that wealth, he is not sure how the company will redistribute it. Money could mean something very different in this new world.
But as he once told me: "I feel like the A.G.I. can help with that."
Photograph Top, Sam Altman at the offices of Loopt in 2007. Above left, Greg Brockman, the president of OpenAI. Above right, Kevin Scott, the chief technology officer at Microsoft. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHERRY TESLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU4.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Nuclear weapons; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Altman, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Y Combinator; NAICS: 523910; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/technology/sam-altman-open-ai-chatgpt.html

Title: He's Not Worried, But He Knows You Are:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793588468

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hes-not-worried-he-knows-you-are/docview/2793588468/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Much Did Your Family Vacation Cost?: [SpecialSections]

Author: Chung, Christine

Publication info: Chung, Christine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-much-did-your-family-vacation-cost/docview/2793588414/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: We took a close look at people's vacations -- what their trips cost and what they chose to spend on for travels both near and far.
There's no single set of rules when it comes to how and what to spend on travel, whether on a local road trip a few hours away or a jaunt to a far-flung destination dreamed of for decades.
In February, we invited readers to tell us about recent voyages -- how much they paid for them and, ultimately, if the experience was worth it. A common theme emerged: the celebration of the pandemic's loosening restrictions on our lives.
Here's what six readers told us. (These interviews have been lightly edited and condensed.)
Whales and remembrance in Hawaii
Reader: Christine Moss, 54, Collinsville, Ill.
Size of the group: Four; Ms. Moss and her three 16-year-old sons
Where they went: Lahaina on the island of Maui, in Hawaii
Tell us about the trip: My husband died on Jan. 20, 2021, of complications from Covid. I'm taking our triplets on an adventure every year around the anniversary of his death. He went on many adventures with our boys, and I want to keep it going.
We had scattered some of my husband's ashes in the ocean off Seattle right after he passed away. He was in the Navy. We had released some of his ashes off the Big Island in Hawaii on an earlier trip, so we wanted to go back and do it again. Wherever we go, he'll be.
How much did it cost? More than $ 10,000 for a week.
Most surprising cost: Food. We ate out for breakfast once, and it was $ 160 at a pancake restaurant. We just ate pancakes, nothing fancy. I spent at least $ 1,000 on food.
Why did you choose this trip? You're going to laugh, but I wanted to see whales. I live in the middle of the United States. I'm totally landlocked.
Was it worth it? Absolutely. Again, with the whales -- my kids always tease me about the whales. Now they're believers, though.
A two-week driving trip to France
Reader: Filipa Donaldson, 33, Trnava, Slovakia
Size of the group: Three; Ms. Donaldson, her husband and their 3-year-old daughter
Where they went: Normandy, France
Tell us about the trip: We took a road trip from our home in Central Europe to Normandy in France in late August. We drove only a few hours a day, so it took us five days each way to get there and back. We camped in a different place each night. Once we finally got to Normandy, we stayed in a charming Airbnb -- a house in the middle of nowhere with blackberries growing all around us. (Breakfasts were sorted!)
We stayed there six days, visiting beautiful and nearly empty beaches, hunting for cockles with the French, and eating delicious seafood at a fraction of the cost compared to other places we've been.
How much did it cost? About $ 3,000 for two weeks.
Most surprising cost: About $ 215 for highway tolls in France.
Why did you choose this trip? It was a completely random choice, but honestly we completely fell in love with it. The beaches were almost like the ones in New England -- like Martha's Vineyard. Completely empty, huge sandy beaches.
Was it worth it? Yes, absolutely. I loved it. I would do it again tomorrow.
100-foot waves in Portugal
Reader: Joyce Talavera, 52, Marblehead, Mass.
Size of the group: 12, including Ms. Talavera, her husband and their two children, and her two sisters and their families.
Where they went: Ericeira and Lisbon, Portugal
Tell us about the trip: We wanted to see 100-foot waves and beautiful tile palaces and eat amazing food.
How much did it cost? Between $ 10,000 and $ 15,000 for a family of four, for a week.
Most surprising cost: The astronomical costs of airline travel over the holidays -- $ 6,400 for four economy class seats.
Why did you choose this trip? Before the pandemic, we were really into travel. We're a big travel family. I sort of picked Portugal because of its accessibility to the East Coast, and it's convenient to get there.
Was it worth it? Definitely. During the pandemic, nobody really got to go anywhere and it was really depressing, and I felt like two, three years of my life went by without doing anything interesting. So, it felt really good just to be traveling abroad again.
A ski outing in Arizona
Reader: Jodi Wolff, 47, from Tucson, Ariz.
Size of the group: 25 people, including Ms. Wolff and her daughter, plus a group including skiers and families
Where they went: Flagstaff, Ariz.
Tell us about the trip: My 14-year-old daughter and I drove up from Tucson to go skiing for the day at Arizona Snowbowl. We stayed one night at a hotel. We went with a group of adaptive skiers from High Country Adaptive Sports; we had probably 10 skiers, all but one of whom use a power wheelchair.
How much did it cost? About $ 500 for two days, using Marriott points for the hotel.
Most surprising cost: The $ 200 lift ticket for my daughter, which I bought ahead of time because I heard the surge prices at Snowbowl can rise to over $ 300 if they get a good snow.
Why did you choose this trip? It was a special event. I run a summer camp retreat for young adults with muscular dystrophy, and we arranged an adaptive ski experience for them.
Was it worth it? It was great, and I think it got everyone really excited for camp this summer, too.
A multigenerational week in Orlando
Reader: Beth Kluge, 35, Minneapolis
Size of the group: 11, including Ms. Kluge, her husband and their four children, plus several members of her husband's family.
Where they went: Orlando, Fla.
Tell us about the trip: We took a family vacation to Orlando, Fla., to visit Walt Disney World and Universal Studios. We stayed at a Disney resort, which my in-laws kindly covered the cost of for our group. We covered all of our other expenses. We travel quite a bit locally each summer, mostly camping road trips, but this was our first flight with all four kids, and the first big "away" vacation we've taken as a family.
How much did it cost? About $ 7,000 for a week.
Most surprising cost: The $ 168 fee to make sure our airline seats were together, so that the kids could sit by an adult they knew.
Why did you choose this trip? Coming from Minnesota, a warm vacation in February was a big draw. The kids were the right age -- ready to travel, tall enough for most rides, and all in the right age groups to enjoy it all. And my in-laws had been talking about a family Disney trip for a few years.
This was a huge splurge for us. Traveling as a family of six is never cheap, and airfare and theme park tickets really add up fast. We got the kids involved in saving last summer by tracking when we didn't eat out, stop for ice cream or make other small splurges. In addition to the fun of the trip, that was a really great opportunity to teach them about money.
Was it worth it? It felt like a good time to take a big trip that we knew was going to be expensive. We hadn't traveled much in the past three years, and all of our kids were at the right age to enjoy it.
Introducing a toddler to Italy
Reader: Matthew Connaughton, 40, Manchester, England
Size of the group: Three; Mr. Connaughton, his wife and their daughter Maisie, who was 19 months old at the time.
Where they went: Florence, Italy
Tell us about the trip: We went to Florence for four nights as my early 40th birthday present last July. The only real thing we had to do differently was plan meal times, as we were weaning Maisie on to solid foods. Turns out she loves spaghetti, and her little face stains like Tupperware. (I have the photos to show for it!) To any couple with a baby or small child thinking of taking a little family holiday together, I'd say just go for it and enjoy yourselves.
How much did it cost? About $ 3,600 for four days.
Most surprising cost: About $ 450 for flights. A short holiday isn't necessarily a less expensive one with extra baggage and seat selection.
Why did you choose this trip? This was my wife's treat for me. We didn't know how Maisie would fare on an urban trip, but even considering the heat, and with the stroller and the cobblestones, she took it all in stride.
We picked somewhere a little bit more special, a couple hours flight time from where we are.
Was it worth it? It was very easy and tourist-friendly, and there were kids everywhere. I would go back, and we've said we want to go back on our own and enjoy it a bit more for what it was. You're always on a clock with a baby.
A Christmas cruise on the Rhine
Reader: Clelia De Souter, 66, Wayne, N.J.
Size of the group: Six, including Ms. De Souter, her husband and their two adult daughters, along with the older daughter's fiancé and the younger daughter's boyfriend.
Where they went: Germany, France and Switzerland
Tell us about the trip: We took a family Christmas market tour down the Rhine in December. My husband booked it during the pandemic, in April 2021. It was a trip we had talked about with our daughters for several years.
How much did it cost? More than $ 10,000 for 10 days. We asked the kids and their partners to pay for their own airfare, but we paid for the rest.
Most surprising cost: None. The advantage of taking the cruise was that there were no surprises.
Why did you choose this trip? The cruise was the fulfillment of a wish and a way to look beyond the pandemic. In 1989, my in-laws asked us to join them on a Panama Canal cruise, but because of work obligations we decided not to go. Within a few years of that time, my mother-in-law passed away. We came to regret that decision and thought, "Let's now take this opportunity before our daughters' lives become too busy."
Was it worth it? It was an amazing, joyful experience that far exceeded our expectations.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page F2.

Subject: Travel; Skiing; Air fares; Vacations; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Air fares

Location: Italy; Portugal; Hawaii; United States--US; France; Arizona

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/travel/family-vacation-spending.html

Title: How Much Did Your Family Vacation Cost?:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793588414

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-much-did-your-family-vacation-cost/docview/2793588414/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2025-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ways to Save When Taking A Family Trip: [SpecialSections]

Author: Glusac, Elaine

Publication info: Glusac, Elaine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ways-save-when-taking-family-trip/docview/2793588397/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Like everything else these days, the cost of a family vacation is rising. With spring break season upon us, here's how to keep costs under control.
In the seasonal surge to the skies and roads, spring break promises a recharge -- and a financial pinch. That's especially true this year, when flight prices are up 20 percent compared with last March and April, according to the travel booking app Hopper, and hotels in the United States are averaging $ 316 a night, up 64 percent in the same time frame.
Naturally, even eager travelers are nervous. A recent study from the nonprofit Family Travel Association found that while families are keen to travel -- 85 percent of parents said they were very likely to travel with their children in the next year, compared with about 70 percent in 2019 -- budget concerns are top of mind.
"Affordability has always been the No. 1 challenge for families," said Peter Bopp, the director of research for the association, adding that the pandemic's effect on family finances and inflation have heightened that concern.
"Everything is higher," said Lauren Masarik, a travel agent based in Jackson, N.J., who runs Vacations by Lauren.
To help families stretch their vacation budgets, agents, analysts and bloggers offered the following 12 tips for saving money.
1. Budget for travel
Conscientious spending allowed Antonia Grant, a Minnesota-based publicist and writer for the blog Families Love Travel, her husband and 8-year-old to spend a month in Italy last summer. They are planning a similar trip to Scotland this year.
"After our mortgage and groceries, travel is our third budget item," said Ms. Grant, who sets aside roughly 20 percent of the household's budget for travel. She added that the family has one car and "not the best car or biggest house" because "travel is what we prioritize."
2. Start with flights
Flights are often the biggest travel expense, so experts suggest tackling them first.
"A lot of time, instead of saying, 'I'm going to Paris,' I'll start with the flight," said Colleen Lanin, the founder of the family travel blog Travel Mamas.
She has a $ 49-a-year membership with Going (formerly known as Scott's Cheap Flights) that alerts her to inexpensive flights from her selected airports. Based on a sale notification several years ago, her family went to China for $ 450 a person, round-trip from Phoenix.
"I set up price alerts when I get the school calendar," said Kate Williams, the chief communications officer for the travel search platform Kayak and the mother of three boys, referring to a Kayak tracking tool that notifies users when prices drop or rise. Her latest tracked flight recently came down $ 65 a ticket for an April trip to Arizona.
Since many airlines have relaxed penalties for canceling trips and often return the value of a canceled ticket in the form of a flight credit, travelers who find a lower fare after they've booked can cancel and rebook using the flight credit, assuming both reservations are with the same airline.
When hunting for flights, use basic flight-search budget strategies, including searching for alternate airports near your departure and arrival destinations, and using flexible dates to show the lowest fares.
The online travel agency Expedia recommends flying domestically on a Wednesday to save 15 percent on average and booking at least a month out to save 10 percent.
Read the fine print on budget carrier sites. Their ticket prices often don't include things like carry-on bags or seat assignments, as do most fares from larger airlines such as American, Delta and United, except for basic economy fares. Add those fees in when comparing prices.
3. Find alternative destinations
As with flights, be flexible about your destination, advised Lauren Doyle, president of the Travel Mechanic, an agency based in Raleigh, N.C. For savings, she recommends Belize in place of Costa Rica, and St. Lucia over Hawaii.
Consider visiting more popular places during their low seasons. When Mexico beach resorts were expensive last Thanksgiving, Gunjan Prakash, the founder and chief executive of the Families Love Travel blog, and her family went to Paris. This year they plan to go to Porto, Portugal, for Thanksgiving -- another place that is not busy in November -- booking round-trip flights for about $ 300 a person from New York City and a hotel room for four for $ 200 a night.
In summer, when U.S. national parks can be overrun, consider a secondary preserve. The 16,000-acre Harriman State Park in eastern Idaho, for example, lies within the greater Yellowstone ecosystem, and has 22 miles of trails, and rental yurts from $ 82 nightly.
4. Cash in on the dollar's strength
One way to get more for your money is to travel to a country where the dollar is strong. It is currently worth about 0.94 euros; by comparison, it was worth 0.81 euros in early 2021. Mexico and Canada have also recently offered favorable exchange rates, as have countries in Asia, including Thailand and Vietnam.
Mr. Bopp of the Family Travel Association noted that closer destinations "make a lot of sense because it's not expensive to get there." Asia may have some great deals, he said, but "it's expensive to fly there."
Mexico, of course, is among the closer international destinations for U.S. travelers, but it has experienced a recent wave of violence that is deterring some travelers. Still, it was the top international destination in the Americas among families, according to the association's 2022 survey. Be sure to check the U.S. State Department's detailed travel advisory when planning a trip.
5. Save on city stays
Full-service hotels in some big cities such as San Francisco and Washington have not fully recovered from the pandemic crash, which might yield some deals, according to Jan Freitag, the national director of hospitality analytics at CoStar, a real estate analytics firm.
"Be aware of the meeting calendar," when hotels are likely to attract business travelers, he added.
Scrimp on urban accommodations if you're unlikely to spend a lot of time in the room.
"The key is a good location to walk to places, but you're just crashing," said Ms. Prakash, who, instead of staying in an expensive hotel, rented a bargain two-bedroom Airbnb in Rome last April for $ 100 a night.
6. Book family rooms
Finding spacious rooms suitable for the entire family takes some digging. The booking site Hotels.com has a "family friendly" filter to identify properties with multiple rooms and amenities for kids like clubs or child care.
Or consider a hostel. Design-focused groups like Generator, with 15 locations mostly in Europe, and Freehand, in four U.S. cities, have rooms with multiple beds that families can book privately. The Freehand Chicago recently had rooms with four beds from about $ 145 and the Generator London offered them from about $ 234.
The more basic a&o Hostels have family rooms with up to eight beds among its 40 European locations. A recent search for a quad family room in Vienna turned up a rate of about $ 30 a person.
7. Rent a vacation home
Since the pandemic began, travelers have embraced home rentals for privacy and space. Airbnb said its family business has grown 60 percent compared with 2019, with the average price per person on family stays globally at $ 52 a night.
In a recent survey of 1,000 Americans commissioned by the short-term rental service Vacasa, 65 percent of respondents said renting homes offered the best value. The service identified its best domestic bargains in Myrtle Beach, S.C. (around $ 104 a bedroom per night, including rentals with multiple bedrooms), and the Great Smoky Mountains ( $ 116).
Travel between April and early June to get prices averaging 20 percent less than summer rates, according to the rental platform HometoGo. On Vrbo, filters for a "weekly discount" and "new listing discount" help renters find deals on the site.
Check GetawayGoGo for last-minute deals. The new platform, which is working with more than 46,000 properties in 39 countries, offers sales on vacation home rentals available up to 14 days in advance. Recent listings included an eight-bedroom villa in the Dominican Republic at 34 percent off for $ 300 a night.
8. Invest in travel perks
Rob Taylor, a co-founder of the L.G.B.T.Q. travel blog 2TravelDads and the father of two children, uses the American Express Platinum Card, which has an annual fee of $ 695, to gain access to airport lounges with complimentary food and drink.
"If you have lunch at the airport for four, plus adult drinks by the time you board, you've spent $ 150. In one trip that's $ 300," he said. "A family of four or five can recover the cost in two trips."
9. Cruise without the views
Historically, a Caribbean cruise was about half the price of seeing the region by land, according to Ms. Masarik, the travel agent. But ship business is booming and the cruise lines are not giving as much away in deals.
"The best way to save on a cruise is going on an older, smaller ship," she said. "You can do a smaller ship with fewer bells and whistles for a third of the price of a new ship."
Another way to save money on a family cruise is to book an interior cabin, instead of an ocean view room. Over Christmas, Ms. Lanin of Travel Mamas and eight other family members took a Caribbean cruise.
"If you want to save money, you don't need a room with a balcony because you're never in the room," she said.
10. Rent a tent
Spending time in the great outdoors doesn't require a huge investment. Services like Arrive Outdoors and OutdoorsGeek allow occasional campers to rent gear. Instead of spending more than $ 200 on a high-quality, four-person tent, OutdoorsGeek rents North Face models for $ 49 for up to three days, or $ 62 for a week.
Glamping sites with platform tents often have high rates. But the affordable French company Huttopia operates more than 60 sites globally and recently made its North American debut with sites in Quebec, New Hampshire, Maine, New York and Southern California. Canvas-and-wood tents with kitchens and accommodations for up to five people start at $ 140 a night.
"We are working to make this easily accessible in price, but also accessible for families who don't know how to camp yet, don't have the equipment, and want to do it in a safe and accessible environment to educate their children," said Margaux Bossanne, the business development manager at Huttopia.
11. Avoid theme park pitfalls
For theme park vacations, "I always tell people don't put money into your hotel because you're never there," Ms. Masarik said. Instead, opt for cheaper accommodations with easy access to the park.
For instance, in Florida, Disney World resorts like Disney's Animal Kingdom Lodge start above $ 500 in early April, while the nearby Caribe Royale Orlando has rates from about $ 200, including shuttles to the parks. Buy advance park admission from BestofOrlando.com, run by the local tourism office, to get discounts. Recently SeaWorld Orlando tickets were selling for about $ 100 a person, compared with nearly $ 148 at the gate.
For some parks, a season pass can be a better deal than paying a daily rate. At Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, Tenn., season passes start at $ 164, compared with $ 89 by the day, worth it if you spend two days at the park.
12. Spend selectively and nearby
Economize on food by eating breakfast in your room or rental and packing picnic lunches. "In the evening, you're tired and ready to have someone serve you, so we do restaurants at dinner," Ms. Lanin of Travel Mamas said.
Get creative with souvenirs. Instead of buying $ 25 T-shirts at each stop, Ms. Lanin suggested having children select a postcard from each gift shop, then writing about their experiences and mailing them to relive the trip back home.
Finally, you don't have to go far to be exposed to new things and to bond.
"Emphasize the experience of the journey," Ms. Grant of Families Love Travel said. "When it comes to traveling, the most important part is making memories and you can do that close to home."
Elaine Glusac writes the Frugal Traveler column. Follow her on Instagram @eglusac .
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page F6-F7.

Subject: Rentals; Air fares; Vacations; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Air fares Hotels & motels

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Asia

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/travel/budget-family-travel.html

Title: Ways to Save When Taking A Family Trip:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

column: Frugal Traveler

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793588397

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ways-save-when-taking-family-trip/docview/2793588397/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The ChatGPT King Isn’t Worried, but He Knows You Might Be

Author: Metz, Cade

Publication info: Metz, Cade. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chatgpt-king-isn-t-worried-he-knows-you-might-be/docview/2793512781/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
I first met Sam Altman in the summer of 2019, days after Microsoft agreed to invest $1 billion in his 3-year-old startup, OpenAI. At his suggestion, we had dinner at a small, decidedly modern restaurant not far from his home in San Francisco.
Halfway through the meal, he held up his iPhone so I could see the contract he had spent the past several months negotiating with one of the world’s largest tech companies. It said Microsoft’s billion-dollar investment would help OpenAI build what was called artificial general intelligence, or AGI, a machine that could do anything the human brain could do.
Later, as Altman sipped a sweet wine in lieu of dessert, he compared his company to the Manhattan Project. As if he were chatting about tomorrow’s weather forecast, he said the U.S. effort to build an atomic bomb during World War II had been a “project on the scale of OpenAI — the level of ambition we aspire to.”
He believed AGI would bring the world prosperity and wealth like no one had ever seen. He also worried that the technologies his company was building could cause serious harm — spreading disinformation, undercutting the job market. Or even destroying the world as we know it.
“I try to be upfront,” he said. “Am I doing something good? Or really bad?”
In 2019, this sounded like science fiction.
In 2023, people are beginning to wonder if Altman was more prescient than they realized.
Now that OpenAI has released an online chatbot called ChatGPT, anyone with an internet connection is a click away from technology that will answer burning questions about organic chemistry, write a 2,000-word term paper on Marcel Proust and his madeleine, or even generate a computer program that drops digital snowflakes across a laptop screen — all with a skill that seems human.
As people realize that this technology is also a way of spreading falsehoods or even persuading people to do things they should not do, some critics are accusing Altman of reckless behavior.
This past week, more than a thousand AI experts and tech leaders called on OpenAI and other companies to pause their work on systems such as ChatGPT, saying they present “profound risks to society and humanity.”
And yet, when people act as if Altman has nearly realized his long-held vision, he pushes back.
“The hype over these systems — even if everything we hope for is right long term — is totally out of control for the short term,” he told me on a recent afternoon. There is time, he said, to better understand how these systems will ultimately change the world.
Many industry leaders, AI researchers and pundits see ChatGPT as a fundamental technological shift, as significant as the creation of the web browser or the iPhone. But few can agree on the future of this technology.
Some believe it will deliver a utopia where everyone has all the time and money ever needed. Others believe it could destroy humanity. Still others spend much of their time arguing that the technology is never as powerful as everyone says it is, insisting that neither nirvana nor doomsday is as close as it might seem.
Altman, a slim, boyish-looking, 37-year-old entrepreneur and investor from the suburbs of St. Louis, sits calmly in the middle of it all. As CEO of OpenAI, he somehow embodies each of these seemingly contradictory views, hoping to balance the myriad possibilities as he moves this strange, powerful, flawed technology into the future.
That means he is often criticized from all directions. But those closest to him believe this is as it should be. “If you’re equally upsetting both extreme sides, then you’re doing something right,” said OpenAI’s president, Greg Brockman.
To spend time with Altman is to understand that Silicon Valley will push this technology forward even though it is not quite sure what the implications will be. At one point during our dinner in 2019, he paraphrased Robert Oppenheimer, leader of the Manhattan Project, who believed the atomic bomb was an inevitability of scientific progress. “Technology happens because it is possible,” he said. (Altman pointed out that, as fate would have it, he and Oppenheimer share a birthday.)
He believes that AI will happen one way or another, that it will do wonderful things that even he can’t yet imagine and that we can find ways of tempering the harm it may cause.
It’s an attitude that mirrors Altman’s own trajectory. His life has been a fairly steady climb toward greater prosperity and wealth, driven by an effective set of personal skills — not to mention some luck. It makes sense that he believes that the good thing will happen rather than the bad.
But if he’s wrong, there’s an escape hatch: In its contracts with investors such as Microsoft, OpenAI’s board reserves the right to shut the technology down at any time.
The Vegetarian Cattle Farmer
The warning, sent with the driving directions, was “Watch out for cows.”
Altman’s weekend home is a ranch in Napa, California, where farmhands grow wine grapes and raise cattle.
During the week, Altman and his partner, Oliver Mulherin, an Australian software engineer, share a house on Russian Hill in the heart of San Francisco. But as Friday arrives, they move to the ranch, a quiet spot among the rocky, grass-covered hills. Their 25-year-old house is remodeled to look both folksy and contemporary. The Cor-Ten steel that covers the outside walls is rusted to perfection.
As you approach the property, the cows roam across both the green fields and gravel roads.
Altman is a man who lives with contradictions, even at his getaway home: a vegetarian who raises beef cattle. He says his partner likes them.
On a recent afternoon walk at the ranch, we stopped to rest at the edge of a small lake. Looking out over the water, we discussed, once again, the future of AI.
His message had not changed much since 2019. But his words were even bolder.
He said his company was building technology that would “solve some of our most pressing problems, really increase the standard of life and also figure out much better uses for human will and creativity.”
He was not exactly sure what problems it will solve, but he argued that ChatGPT showed the first signs of what is possible. Then, with his next breath, he worried that the same technology could cause serious harm if it wound up in the hands of some authoritarian government.
Altman tends to describe the future as if it were already here. And he does so with an optimism that seems misplaced in today’s world. At the same time, he has a way of quickly nodding to the other side of the argument.
Kelly Sims, a partner with venture capital firm Thrive Capital who worked with Altman as a board adviser to OpenAI, said it was like he was constantly arguing with himself.
“In a single conversation,” she said, “he is both sides of the debate club.”
He is very much a product of the Silicon Valley that grew so swiftly and so gleefully in the mid-2010s. As president of Y Combinator, a Silicon Valley startup accelerator and seed investor, from 2014-19, he advised an endless stream of new companies — and was shrewd enough to personally invest in several that became household names, including Airbnb, Reddit and Stripe. He takes pride in recognizing when a technology is about to reach exponential growth — and then riding that curve into the future.
But he is also the product of a strange, sprawling online community that began to worry, around the same time Altman came to Silicon Valley, that AI would one day destroy the world. Called rationalists or effective altruists, members of this movement were instrumental in the creation of OpenAI.
The question is whether the two sides of Altman are ultimately compatible: Does it make sense to ride that curve if it could end in disaster? Altman is certainly determined to see how it all plays out.
He is not necessarily motivated by money. Like many personal fortunes in Silicon Valley that are tied up in a wide variety of public and private companies, Altman’s wealth is not well documented. But as we strolled across his ranch, he told me, for the first time, that he holds no stake in OpenAI. The only money he stands to make from the company is a yearly salary of about $65,000 — “whatever the minimum for health insurance is,” he said — and a tiny slice of an old investment in the company by Y Combinator.
His longtime mentor, Paul Graham, founder of Y Combinator, explained Altman’s motivation like this: “Why is he working on something that won’t make him richer? One answer is that lots of people do that once they have enough money, which Sam probably does. The other is that he likes power.”
‘What Bill Gates Must Have Been Like’
In the late 1990s, the John Burroughs School, a private prep school named for the 19th-century American naturalist and philosopher, invited an independent consultant to observe and critique daily life on its campus in the suburbs of St. Louis.
The consultant’s review included one significant criticism: The student body was rife with homophobia.
In the early 2000s, Altman, a 17-year-old student at John Burroughs, set out to change the school’s culture, individually persuading teachers to post “Safe Space” signs on their classroom doors as a statement in support of gay students such as him. He came out during his senior year and said the St. Louis of his teenage years was not an easy place to be gay.
Georgeann Kepchar, who taught the school’s Advanced Placement computer science course, saw Altman as one of her most talented computer science students — and one with a rare knack for pushing people in new directions.
“He had creativity and vision, combined with the ambition and force of personality to convince others to work with him on putting his ideas into action,” she said. Altman also told me that he had asked one particularly homophobic teacher to post a “Safe Space” sign just to troll the guy.
Graham, who worked alongside Altman for a decade, saw the same persuasiveness in the man from St. Louis.
“He has a natural ability to talk people into things,” Graham said. “If it isn’t inborn, it was at least fully developed before he was 20. I first met Sam when he was 19, and I remember thinking at the time: ‘So this is what Bill Gates must have been like.’”
The two got to know each other in 2005 when Altman applied for a spot in Y Combinator's first class of startups. He won a spot — which included $10,000 in seed funding — and after his sophomore year at Stanford University, he dropped out to build his new company, Loopt, a social media startup that let people share their location with friends and family.
He now says that during his short stay at Stanford, he learned more from the many nights he spent playing poker than he did from most of his other college activities. After his freshman year, he worked in the AI and robotics lab overseen by professor Andrew Ng, who would go on to found the flagship AI lab at Google. But poker taught Altman how to read people and evaluate risk.
It showed him “how to notice patterns in people over time, how to make decisions with very imperfect information, how to decide when it was worth pain, in a sense, to get more information,” he told me while strolling across his ranch in Napa. “It’s a great game.”
After selling Loopt for a modest return, he joined Y Combinator as a part-time partner. Three years later, Graham stepped down as president of the firm and, to the surprise of many across Silicon Valley, tapped Altman, then 28, as his successor.
Altman is not a coder or an engineer or an AI researcher. He is the person who sets the agenda, puts the teams together and strikes the deals. As the president of Y Combinator, he expanded the firm with near abandon, starting a new investment fund and a new research lab and stretching the number of companies advised by the firm into the hundreds each year.
He also began working on several projects outside the investment firm, including OpenAI, which he founded as a nonprofit in 2015 alongside a group that included Elon Musk. By Altman’s own admission, Y Combinator grew increasingly concerned he was spreading himself too thin.
He resolved to refocus his attention on a project that would, as he put it, have a real impact on the world. He considered politics, but settled on AI.
Altman believed, according to his younger brother Max, that he was one of the few people who could meaningfully change the world through AI research, as opposed to the many people who could do so through politics.
In 2019, just as OpenAI’s research was taking off, Altman grabbed the reins, stepping down as president of Y Combinator to concentrate on a company with fewer than 100 employees that was unsure how it would pay its bills.
Within a year, he had transformed OpenAI into a nonprofit with a for-profit arm. That way, he could pursue the money it would need to build a machine that could do anything the human brain could do.
Raising ‘10 Bills’
In the mid-2010s, Altman shared a three-bedroom, three-bath San Francisco apartment with his boyfriend at the time, his two brothers and their girlfriends. The brothers went their separate ways in 2016 but remained on a group chat, where they spent a lot of time giving one another guff, as only siblings can, his brother Max remembers. Then, one day, Altman sent a text saying he planned to raise $1 billion for his company’s research.
Within a year, he had done so. After running into Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s CEO, at an annual gathering of tech leaders in Sun Valley, Idaho — often called “summer camp for billionaires” — he personally negotiated a deal with Nadella and Microsoft’s chief technology officer, Kevin Scott.
A few years later, Altman texted his brothers again, saying he planned to raise an additional $10 billion — or, as he put it, “10 bills.” By this past January, he had done this, too, signing another contract with Microsoft.
Brockman, OpenAI’s president, said Altman’s talent lies in understanding what people want. “He really tries to find the thing that matters most to a person — and then figure out how to give it to them,” Brockman told me. “That is the algorithm he uses over and over.”
The agreement has put OpenAI and Microsoft at the center of a movement that is poised to remake everything from search engines to email applications to online tutors. And all this is happening at a pace that surprises even those who have been tracking this technology for decades.
Amid the frenzy, Altman is his usual calm self — although he does say he uses ChatGPT to help him quickly summarize the avalanche of emails and documents coming his way.
Scott believes that Altman will ultimately be discussed in the same breath as Gates, Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg.
“These are people who have left an indelible mark on the fabric of the tech industry and maybe the fabric of the world,” he said. “I think Sam is going to be one of those people.”
The trouble is, unlike the days when Apple, Microsoft and Meta were getting started, people are well aware of how technology can transform the world — and how dangerous it can be.
The Man in the Middle
In March, Altman tweeted out a selfie, bathed by a pale-orange flash, that showed him smiling between a blond woman giving a peace sign and a bearded guy wearing a fedora.
The woman was Canadian singer Grimes, Musk’s former partner, and the hat guy was Eliezer Yudkowsky, a self-described AI researcher who believes, perhaps more than anyone, that AI could one day destroy humanity.
The selfie — snapped by Altman at a party his company was hosting — shows how close he is to this way of thinking. But he has his own views on the dangers of AI.
Yudkowsky and his writings played key roles in the creation of both OpenAI and DeepMind, another lab intent on building artificial general intelligence.
He also helped spawn the vast online community of rationalists and effective altruists who are convinced that AI is an existential risk. This surprisingly influential group is represented by researchers inside many of the top AI labs, including OpenAI. They don’t see this as hypocrisy: Many of them believe that because they understand the dangers clearer than anyone else, they are in the best position to build this technology.
Altman believes that effective altruists have played an important role in the rise of AI, alerting the industry to the dangers. He also believes they exaggerate these dangers.
As OpenAI developed ChatGPT, many others, including Google and Meta, were building similar technology. But it was Altman and OpenAI that chose to share the technology with the world.
Many in the field have criticized the decision, arguing that this set off a race to release technology that gets things wrong, makes things up and could soon be used to rapidly spread disinformation. On Friday, the Italian government temporarily banned ChatGPT in the country, citing privacy concerns and worries over minors being exposed to explicit material.
Altman argues that rather than developing and testing the technology entirely behind closed doors before releasing it in full, it is safer to gradually share it so everyone can better understand risks and how to handle them.
He told me that it would be a “very slow takeoff.”
When I asked Altman if a machine that could do anything the human brain could do would eventually drive the price of human labor to zero, he demurred. He said he could not imagine a world where human intelligence was useless.
If he’s wrong, he thinks he can make it up to humanity.
He rebuilt OpenAI as what he called a capped-profit company. This allowed him to pursue billions of dollars in financing by promising a profit to investors such as Microsoft. But these profits are capped, and any additional revenue will be pumped back into the OpenAI nonprofit that was founded back in 2015.
His grand idea is that OpenAI will capture much of the world’s wealth through the creation of AGI and then redistribute this wealth to the people. In Napa, as we sat chatting beside the lake at the heart of his ranch, he tossed out several figures — $100 billion, $1 trillion, $100 trillion.
If AGI does create all that wealth, he is not sure how the company will redistribute it. Money could mean something very different in this new world.
But as he once told me: “I feel like the AGI can help with that.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Nuclear weapons; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: Y Combinator; NAICS: 523910; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

Identifier / keyword: Privacy; Canada; Stanford University; Restaurants; Manhattan Project; Livestock; Venture Capital; United States; Company Reports; Oppenheimer, J Robert; Intelligence And Intelligence Tests (Iq); Airbnb; Sun Valley (Idaho); Safe Space; Politics And Government; California; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Nonpro fit Organizations; E Learning; Y Combinator; Gates, Bill; Apple Inc; Nadella, Satya; Google Inc; Jobs, Steven P; Boards Of Directors; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Sun Valley (Calif); Suburbs; Reddit Inc; Cards And Card Games; Grimes (1988 ); Discrimination; Chatgpt; Research; Executives And Management (Theory); Openai Labs; Senses And Sensation; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Entrepreneurship; Deepmind Technologies Ltd; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Rumors And Misinformation; Loopt; Napa (Calif); Education (K 12); San Francisco (Calif); Graham, Paul (1964 ); Stocks And Bonds; Software; Two Thousands (Decade); Generation Z; Private And Sectarian Schools; Artificial Intelligence; Idaho; Cattle; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Philosophy; Russia; Ranches; Australia; Altman, Samuel H; Government Contracts And Procurement; Nuclear Weapons; Names, Organizational; Laboratories And Scientific Equipment; Altruism; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Creativity; Business; Colleges And Universities; Microsoft Corp; Wines; Appointments And Executive Changes; Thrive Capital; Start Ups; Ng, Andrew Y; Vegetarianism

Title: The ChatGPT King Isn’t Worried, but He Knows You Might Be

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-01T15:24:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793512781

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chatgpt-king-isn-t-worried-he-knows-you-might-be/docview/2793512781/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

12 Ways to Save on Family Travel

Author: Glusac, Elaine

Publication info: Glusac, Elaine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/12-ways-save-on-family-travel/docview/2793512779/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In the seasonal surge to the skies and roads, spring break promises a recharge — and a financial pinch. That’s especially true this year, when flight prices are up 20% compared with last March and April, according to travel booking app Hopper, and hotels in the United States are averaging $316 a night, up 64% in the same time frame.
Naturally, even eager travelers are nervous. A recent study from the nonprofit Family Travel Association found that while families are keen to travel — 85% of parents said they were very likely to travel with their children in the next year, compared with about 70% in 2019 — budget concerns are top of mind.
“Affordability has always been the No. 1 challenge for families,” said Peter Bopp, the director of research for the association, adding that the pandemic’s effect on family finances and inflation have heightened that concern.
“Everything is higher,” said Lauren Masarik, a travel agent based in Jackson, New Jersey, who runs Vacations by Lauren.
To help families stretch their vacation budgets, agents, analysts and bloggers offered the following 12 tips for saving money.
1. Budget for travel
Conscientious spending allowed Antonia Grant, a Minnesota-based publicist and writer for the blog Families Love Travel, her husband and 8-year-old to spend a month in Italy last summer. They are planning a similar trip to Scotland this year.
“After our mortgage and groceries, travel is our third budget item,” said Grant, who sets aside roughly 20% of the household’s budget for travel. She added that the family has one car and “not the best car or biggest house” because “travel is what we prioritize.”
2. Start with flights
Flights are often the biggest travel expense, so experts suggest tackling them first.
“A lot of time, instead of saying, ‘I’m going to Paris,’ I’ll start with the flight,” said Colleen Lanin, the founder of family travel blog Travel Mamas.
She has a $49-a-year membership with Going (formerly known as Scott’s Cheap Flights) that alerts her to inexpensive flights from her selected airports. Based on a sale notification several years ago, her family went to China for $450 a person, round-trip from Phoenix.
“I set up price alerts when I get the school calendar,” said Kate Williams, the chief communications officer for travel search platform Kayak and the mother of three boys, referring to a Kayak tracking tool that notifies users when prices drop or rise. Her latest tracked flight recently came down $65 a ticket for an April trip to Arizona.
Since many airlines have relaxed penalties for canceling trips and often return the value of a canceled ticket in the form of a flight credit, travelers who find a lower fare after they’ve booked can cancel and rebook using the flight credit, assuming both reservations are with the same airline.
When hunting for flights, use basic flight search budget strategies, including searching for alternate airports near your departure and arrival destinations, and using flexible dates to show the lowest fares.
Online travel agency Expedia recommends flying domestically on a Wednesday to save 15% on average and booking at least a month out to save 10%.
Read the fine print on budget carrier sites. Their ticket prices often don’t include things like carry-on bags or seat assignments, as do most fares from larger airlines such as American, Delta and United, except for basic economy fares. Add those fees in when comparing prices.
3. Find alternative destinations
As with flights, be flexible about your destination, advised Lauren Doyle, president of the Travel Mechanic, an agency based in Raleigh, North Carolina. For savings, she recommends Belize in place of Costa Rica, and St. Lucia over Hawaii.
Consider visiting more popular places during their low seasons. When Mexico beach resorts were expensive last Thanksgiving, Gunjan Prakash, the founder and CEO of the Families Love Travel blog, and her family went to Paris. This year they plan to go to Porto, Portugal, for Thanksgiving — another place that is not busy in November — booking round-trip flights for about $300 a person from New York City and a hotel room for four for $200 a night.
In summer, when U.S. national parks can be overrun, consider a secondary preserve. The 16,000-acre Harriman State Park in eastern Idaho, for example, lies within the greater Yellowstone ecosystem, and has 22 miles of trails, and rental yurts from $82 nightly.
4. Cash in on the dollar’s strength
One way to get more for your money is to travel to a country where the dollar is strong. It is currently worth about 0.94 euros; by comparison, it was worth 0.81 euros in early 2021. Mexico and Canada have also recently offered favorable exchange rates, as have countries in Asia, including Thailand and Vietnam.
Bopp of the Family Travel Association noted that closer destinations “make a lot of sense because it’s not expensive to get there.” Asia may have some great deals, he said, but “it’s expensive to fly there.”
Mexico, of course, is among the closer international destinations for U.S. travelers, but it has experienced a recent wave of violence that is deterring some travelers. Still, it was the top international destination in the Americas among families, according to the association’s 2022 survey. Be sure to check the State Department’s detailed travel advisory when planning a trip.
5. Save on city stays
Full-service hotels in some big cities such as San Francisco and Washington have not fully recovered from the pandemic crash, which might yield some deals, according to Jan Freitag, the national director of hospitality analytics at CoStar, a real estate analytics firm.
“Be aware of the meeting calendar,” when hotels are likely to attract business travelers, he added.
Scrimp on urban accommodations if you’re unlikely to spend a lot of time in the room.
“The key is a good location to walk to places, but you’re just crashing,” said Prakash, who, instead of staying in an expensive hotel, rented a bargain two-bedroom Airbnb in Rome last April for $100 a night.
6. Book family rooms
Finding spacious rooms suitable for the entire family takes some digging. Booking site Hotels.com has a “family friendly” filter to identify properties with multiple rooms and amenities for kids like clubs or child care.
Or consider a hostel. Design-focused groups like Generator, with 15 locations mostly in Europe, and Freehand, in four U.S. cities, have rooms with multiple beds that families can book privately. The Freehand Chicago recently had rooms with four beds from about $145 and the Generator London offered them from about $234.
The more basic a&o Hostels have family rooms with up to eight beds among its 40 European locations. A recent search for a quad family room in Vienna turned up a rate of about $30 a person.
7. Rent a vacation home
Since the pandemic began, travelers have embraced home rentals for privacy and space. Airbnb said its family business has grown 60% compared with 2019, with the average price per person on family stays globally at $52 a night.
In a recent survey of 1,000 Americans commissioned by short-term rental service Vacasa, 65% of respondents said renting homes offered the best value. The service identified its best domestic bargains in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, (around $104 a bedroom per night, including rentals with multiple bedrooms), and the Great Smoky Mountains ($116).
Travel between April and early June to get prices averaging 20% less than summer rates, according to rental platform HometoGo. On Vrbo, filters for a “weekly discount” and “new listing discount” help renters find deals on the site.
Check GetawayGoGo for last-minute deals. The new platform, which is working with more than 46,000 properties in 39 countries, offers sales on vacation home rentals available up to 14 days in advance. Recent listings included an eight-bedroom villa in the Dominican Republic at 34% off for $300 a night.
8. Invest in travel perks
Rob Taylor, a co-founder of LGBTQ travel blog 2TravelDads and the father of two children, uses the American Express Platinum Card, which has an annual fee of $695, to gain access to airport lounges with complimentary food and drink.
“If you have lunch at the airport for four, plus adult drinks by the time you board, you’ve spent $150. In one trip that’s $300,” he said. “A family of four or five can recover the cost in two trips.”
9. Cruise without the views
Historically, a Caribbean cruise was about half the price of seeing the region by land, according to Masarik, the travel agent. But ship business is booming and the cruise lines are not giving as much away in deals.
“The best way to save on a cruise is going on an older, smaller ship,” she said. “You can do a smaller ship with fewer bells and whistles for a third of the price of a new ship.”
Another way to save money on a family cruise is to book an interior cabin, instead of an ocean view room. Over Christmas, Lanin of Travel Mamas and eight other family members took a Caribbean cruise.
“If you want to save money, you don’t need a room with a balcony because you’re never in the room,” she said.
10. Rent a tent
Spending time in the great outdoors doesn’t require a huge investment. Services like Arrive Outdoors and OutdoorsGeek allow occasional campers to rent gear. Instead of spending more than $200 on a high-quality, four-person tent, OutdoorsGeek rents North Face models for $49 for up to three days, or $62 for a week.
Glamping sites with platform tents often have high rates. But affordable French company Huttopia operates more than 60 sites globally and recently made its North American debut with sites in Quebec, New Hampshire, Maine, New York and Southern California. Canvas-and-wood tents with kitchens and accommodations for up to five people start at $140 a night.
“We are working to make this easily accessible in price, but also accessible for families who don’t know how to camp yet, don’t have the equipment, and want to do it in a safe and accessible environment to educate their children,” said Margaux Bossanne, the business development manager at Huttopia.
11. Avoid theme park pitfalls
For theme park vacations, “I always tell people don’t put money into your hotel because you’re never there,” Masarik said. Instead, opt for cheaper accommodations with easy access to the park.
For instance, in Florida, Disney World resorts like Disney’s Animal Kingdom Lodge start above $500 in early April, while the nearby Caribe Royale Orlando has rates from about $200, including shuttles to the parks. Buy advance park admission from BestofOrlando.com, run by the local tourism office, to get discounts. Recently, SeaWorld Orlando tickets were selling for about $100 a person, compared with nearly $148 at the gate.
For some parks, a season pass can be a better deal than paying a daily rate. At Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, season passes start at $164, compared with $89 by the day, worth it if you spend two days at the park.
12. Spend selectively and nearby
Economize on food by eating breakfast in your room or rental and packing picnic lunches. “In the evening, you’re tired and ready to have someone serve you, so we do restaurants at dinner,” Lanin of Travel Mamas said.
Get creative with souvenirs. Instead of buying $25 T-shirts at each stop, Lanin suggested having children select a postcard from each gift shop, then writing about their experiences and mailing them to relive the trip back home.
Finally, you don’t have to go far to be exposed to new things and to bond.
“Emphasize the experience of the journey,” Grant of Families Love Travel said. “When it comes to traveling, the most important part is making memories, and you can do that close to home.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Rentals; Air fares; Vacations; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Air fares Hotels & motels

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Asia

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

Identifier / keyword: Airbnb; Amusement And Theme Parks; Families And Family Life; Memorabilia And Souvenirs; New Hampshire; Tennessee; Seaworld Entertainment Inc; North Face, The; Costa Rica; Thailand; Fines (Penalties); National Parks, Monuments And Seashores; Florida; Currency; New York City; Beaches; Quebec Province (Canada); United States; Disney, Walt, World (Lake Buena Vista, Fla); Budget Travel; London (England); Arizona; Budgets And Budgeting; Canada; KayakCom; Parenting; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); California; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Airports; Hopper (Mobile App); Travel; Europe; Cruises; Summer (Season); Personal Finances; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Dominican Republic; Pigeon Forge (Tenn); Phoenix (Ariz); North Carolina; Caribbean Area; Expedia Inc; Italy; Rome (Italy); Discount Selling; VrboCom; Portugal; HotelsCom; Computers And The Internet; Mexico Beach (Fla); Tents; Luggage And Packing; South Carolina; Paris (France); Maine; New Jersey; Thanksgiving Day; United Airlines; San Francisco (Calif); Delta Air Lines Inc; Orlando (Fla); Vietnam; Minnesota; States (Us); Oporto (Portugal); Raleigh (Nc); Walt Disney Company; Dollywood Amusement Park; Harriman State Park (Ny); Idaho; Us Dollar (Currency); Mexico; Second Homes And Non Primary Residences; St Lucia; Seasons And Months; Myrtle Beach (Sc); North America; Hawaii; France; Travel And Vacations; Belize; Airlines And Airplanes; Chicago (Ill); American Express Company; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Yellowstone National Park; Urban Areas; Scotland; Books And Literature; China

Title: 12 Ways to Save on Family Travel

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-01T16:40:19Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N .Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793512779

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/12-ways-save-on-family-travel/docview/2793512779/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jamaica Beyond the All-Inclusive Resorts: [Travel Desk]

Author: Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie

Publication info: Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jamaica-beyond-all-inclusive-resorts/docview/2790225880/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A writer explores the island beyond its popular all-inclusive resorts, seeking out guesthouses owned by locals, and experiences beyond the beaches. She finds mountain views, cascading waterfalls and a sense of place.
"So," said the tour guide, midway through our trip to Jamaica. "What are you really looking for?"
It was a good question. In most of the places we went, our group of four women had been welcomed, warned and flirted with. But, we were rarely asked many questions about the nature of our trip. We'd flown in from England and the United States in mid-November, just before high season, intending to see the country over the course of a month, while staying in and visiting as many locally owned businesses and guesthouses as we could.
Traveling from the east of the lush island to the west, and mostly avoiding the tourist hot spots of Ocho Rios, Montego Bay and Negril, we sought out places that were the opposite of what Jamaica, and many Caribbean islands, have become known for: resort-style luxury that doesn't always offer locals a significant slice of the tourism pie. As a granddaughter of Jamaican immigrants, the search had special resonance for me.
"When people come to the Caribbean, they're being funneled into this journey of the airport to the resort, and that's all they see of the country," said Riaz Philips, the author of the award-winning cookbook "West Winds: Recipes, History and Tales from Jamaica." "Usually, if you follow the money trail of that passage, it doesn't lead to any tangible benefits for the people who live and work in those countries."
Nicole Dennis-Benn, who wrote about the dark side of Jamaican tourism in her debut novel, "Here Comes the Sun," explained that it can be hard for Jamaicans to start successful businesses. "It's really impossible if you don't come from wealth already. You're not going to find much ownership among the Jamaican working class," she said.
Even many of the white-sand beaches that foreign visitors enjoy are off-limits to residents, and are instead controlled by hotels and resorts, which limit access to their guests. Of the island's approximately 493 miles of coastline, less than three miles are designated as public beaches, and about half of those are used in association with hotels, according to a recent government policy paper. The public beaches that do exist are often run-down and not fit for use. That exclusion is emblematic of what some locals feel is the continuing legacy of colonialism and the history of slavery on the island.
Committed to discovering the country that few visitors see, we set out to discover if it was possible to be good tourists and travel to Jamaica beyond the resorts.
To the Blue Mountains
Our trip began with a long journey from Montego Bay's Sangster International Airport to Kingston on the Knutsford Express (a Greyhound-equivalent bus) and then a taxi up and across the Blue Mountains, high above the capital, to stay at the BlueMountView guesthouse.
We arrived at night after a treacherous drive. But we woke the next morning to the chirping of insects and a stunning sight: The guest rooms, made with an abundance of polished natural wood, are surrounded by trees, and built into the edge of a great crevasse, looking out over a plunging swathe of greenery.
It was at BlueMountView that we met Noel Lindo and his wife, Michelle. The self-described "King of the Mountain," Mr. Lindo was born in the area. After living in London for most of his adult life, he and Michelle decided to return to Jamaica to live in 2011 -- building their own house, and then the guesthouses. They are explicitly L.G.B.T.Q.-friendly in a country that is not always hospitable to gay visitors, treat guests like family -- and hand-roast their own coffee on-site.
Mr. Lindo is fatherly, frank and incredibly chatty. He likes to layer stories upon stories, taking us from the streets of 1970s London to colonial Jamaica and back again.
"There's so much to do in this mountain. It's unbelievable," he said enthusiastically, pointing out hiking trails in the Blue and John Crow Mountains National Park, hidden waterfalls and coffee plantations, many of them owned by locals. Although it's isolated, we discovered that BlueMountView is within hiking distance of Strawberry Hill, the famous hotel started by the Island Records founder, Chris Blackwell. We stopped at Eits Cafe, where we gorged on tender saltfish fritters, warming pumpkin ginger soup and sticky, delicious, caramelized-plantain crepes while looking out across the misty mountains, surrounded by the buzz of swallowtail hummingbirds.
It was through Mr. Lindo that we wound up taking a day trip to visit the parish of Portland, on the island's northeast coast. Although perhaps predominantly known for its beaches and as the location of the Blue Lagoon, made famous in the 1980 movie, we had a more rural experience. Our first stop was the Living Daylights, an eco-farm, restaurant and bar in the jungle of Bonnie View Hill, Port Antonio, that has been open since 2018, aiming to offer guests "a piece of paradise," with a focus on sustainability.
Jesse Crosby's family has farmed the land for more than 50 years, but he always had ambitions to do something more with it, and when he met Brandon Powell (who has both Jamaican and U.S. citizenship), they were able to make that a reality.
Arriving at midday, we were treated to a sweaty, fun farm hike led by Mr. Crosby. He picked cinnamon leaves from the trees for us to sniff, jostled down coconuts for us to drink from and showed us hidden plantain trees. This was followed by a delicious farm-to-table meal cooked by Simi Brenner, the owner of the Moussa Pot, a vegan restaurant, that included a chickpea curry with moringa leaf, ripe plantain and coco yam leaf‌ and a salad made from June plum, cucumber and sorrel leaf. The Moussa Pot has since moved to a new location in Portland, but the Living Daylights will continue to offer farm-to-table meals in future.
Our second stop in Portland was the self-governing Maroon community of Charles Town in Buff Bay Valley, whose residents are descendants of proud Africans who escaped enslavement by fleeing to mountainous regions. It was one of the few times in Jamaica where we were viscerally reminded of the island's dark history and its continuing legacy.
A tour of the small museum charted the history of the Maroons and how they have protected their freedom and culture over centuries, creating their own communities and belief systems while fighting against British slave owners and colonialists in a series of wars. Marcia Douglas, the current leader of the community (and the first woman to hold the position), held up a heavy shackle that would have once been clasped around an enslaved person's neck. Later, other members of the community brought out drums and sang. We were taught dances that bind the present and the past.
"What we're offering in the tourism sector is our heritage, our ancestral inheritance," Ms. Douglas told me after the tour.
Treasure Beach and community tourism
Another long, bumpy drive took us from the Blue Mountains down to Treasure Beach, a village in the southwest parish of St. Elizabeth. It's probably the area in Jamaica best known for community tourism -- low-impact travel that works in relative sync with the locals. Once a fishing village, over the past 30 years, Treasure Beach has become a beacon for tourists looking to travel off the beaten track.
The town is small, hot and with dusty roads lined by cactuses and flowers. Its treasures were somewhat hidden; shacks that looked inconsequential at first glance came alive at different times of the day. The stunning beaches were a more obvious draw, along with a variety of well-priced, locally owned guest rooms and villas on Airbnb, such as the Azteca Villas: a collection of newly built guesthouses, with a small shared pool, only a few minutes away from the beach and the main, albeit tiny, strip of shops and places to eat.
We spent the bulk of our time in Treasure Beach, sampling locally owned highlights like Smurfs Café for the best Jamaican breakfast in town; Eggy's Beach Bar for the coldest Red Stripes right on the sand; and Gee Wiz for tasty, reasonably priced vegan food in an eclectic setting -- the restaurant is painted in fading, cotton candy colors and flanked with statues of long-beaked fish, while the huge, pillared dining room boasts colorful murals.
Floyd's Pelican Bar, built from driftwood and palm fronds on a sandbank in the middle of the ocean, has to be the area's best-known spot. Constructed in 2001 by Floyde Forbes, it's a slick operation these days, requiring a boat journey that costs $ 40 per person at a minimum from Treasure Beach. But the vibes, a mile away from shore, are sun-drenched and otherworldly. The freshly caught fried escovitch fish and bammy (a type of cassava flatbread) were the best I had on the island.
Treasure Beach is still an anomaly in Jamaica's tourism sector.
"There's no question that over 90 percent of Jamaica's traditional room stock is all-inclusive," said Jason Henzell, the chairman and co-owner of Jakes Hotel, the largest business in the area, who also runs a nonprofit to support locals. "I sat on the board of the Jamaican Ministry of Tourism for eight years, and I know they had been quite hesitant about community tourism. Not necessarily in Treasure Beach, but overall, because they were worried about crime. That's the cold, hard truth."
The Ministry of Tourism did not respond to requests for comment.
But then, he said, Airbnb changed everything. "It happened in spite of the ministry not wanting it. It's almost as though Airbnb was made for Jamaica, right? Because, you know, every Jamaican is a character."
The other reality of Treasure Beach, though, is that much of the beachfront land has been bought up by non-Jamaicans. Mr. Henzell, who has helped landowners sell property in the area, tells me that land these days goes for over $ 1 million an acre, putting it out of reach of most locals.
"We know that tourism is our number one revenue. And a lot of the time when people are living in a prime area, especially working class Jamaicans, they tend to displace them," said Ms. Dennis-Benn, whose upcoming novel will explore land ownership.
But, Mr. Henzell pointed out, the majority of large guesthouses in Treasure Beach, four out of five, are owned by locals. And, he added, "you have some foreigners who are extremely respectful of our community, respectful of our traditions, respectful of our heritage and culture."
Last stop, Mel's
Our last stop, two hours from Treasure Beach, was Mel's Botanical Retreat, situated on Cave Mountain, in Westmoreland, the westernmost parish of Jamaica. The retreat, featuring three handbuilt wooden cabins and a communal kitchen, is high above the shimmering Caribbean Sea and nestled in the lush jungle. At present, it's being run by a teenage girl named Kiara Clayton. She is motherless and grieving, but trying to do something very special: keeping a dream of Black-woman-owned community tourism alive.
Kiara's mother, Melessia Rodney, founded the retreat, built on the site of her family's longtime goat pasture. In the summer of 2021, she was pregnant with her second child and had recently married the love of her life. But then, in August, she died: At age 36, Covid took her and her unborn baby.
Five months later, 15-year-old Kiara decided to take over the business; balancing it alongside schoolwork and her ambitions to study to become a lawyer or an entrepreneur in America. Despite her age, she understands the power of legacy. With the help of her family and her mother's many friends from all over the world, she is continuing to host guests at the retreat.
One night, Kiara joined me in the communal kitchen to talk about the business and why she decided to carry it on. "She wanted it to be this Black Jamaican woman-owned business. She just loved being strong and independent," she said.
What makes the property special among the thousands of Airbnbs across Jamaica is its commitment to these ideals. "It's really rare, in Jamaica, to have a woman born in poverty, and become as successful as Mel became with her goat pasture," said Stacey Davis, a family friend who helped Mel in the early days of the retreat. "Every flower in that retreat, everything you see, she did by hand."
Although Kiara has faced some financial struggles with maintaining the property since her mother died, it remains a haven for guests seeking that ephemeral and elusive trait: authenticity. Mel, and now Kiara, encourage guests to engage with the local community on the south side of the island.
At Benta River Falls, an hour or so's drive away from Mel's, we were treated to a joyous day at a series of cascading waterfalls and deep pools, led by two energetic guides. The property's owner, Stacy Wilson, played dominoes with a bunch of men in the small bar next to the falls, while we ate a delicious plate of crispy fries, and giggled with the pink-haired bartender. Mr. Wilson's American cousin, Jahcobee Faith, explained that the family has owned the area since the 1970s, but only set up business in 2017, charging, at the time we visited, $ 20 for tourists and a nominal 500 Jamaican dollars, or about $ 3.25, for locals.
Closer to Mel's, Bluefields beach provided all the white sand and azure, temperate water you could wish for, along with the knowledge that it is one of the few beaches on the island that explicitly remains open for locals. It's looked after by the Bluefields People's Community Association, which promotes sustainable social and economic development. With towels spread out under a tree, we sipped strong rum cocktails and played with local children in the water. We were guests, but we were accepted.
The reality is that Jamaica beyond the resorts is beautiful but impoverished, and still visibly recovering from the pandemic. It can get expensive if you don't drive and need to rely on taxis to get around, though route taxis, as used by locals, can offset some costs. The country has a Level 3 warning from the State Department, with some regions listed as Level 4, Do Not Travel, but these were not on our itinerary. Traveling around the country felt completely safe in a group; just keep your wits about you, and remain polite.
Stepping out of your comfort zone is a must: Taking the easy options will not lead you to the communities that will really benefit from the money that tourism can bring. It's on us, as tourists, to seek them out, move within them with an awareness of our relative privileges, and remember the human stories behind their businesses. There are deep sacrifices that some working-class Jamaicans have made to try and bring a new type of tourism to the surface.
As Kiara said to me, measuring her words, at the end of our conversation: "It was Mel's dream and now it's my dream, but it probably doesn't have to work out the way it was going to work for her, for me. Maybe something else is destined for me."
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Top, fishermen on Treasure Beach. Center left, the Azteca Villas guesthouses at Treasure Beach. Center right, Delroy Brown at his restaurant, Gee Wiz. Above, Eggy's Beach Bar at Treasure Beach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C7.

Subject: Resorts & spas; Travel; Veganism; Colonialism; Mountains; Restaurants; Tourism; Beaches; Towns; Airports

Business indexing term: Subject: Resorts & spas Restaurants Airports

Location: United States--US; Jamaica; Blue Mountains

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/09/travel/encountering-another-jamaica.html

Title: Jamaica Beyond the All-Inclusive Resorts:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 25, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790225880

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jamaica-beyond-all-inclusive-resorts/docview/2790225880/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The DeSantis Foreign Policy: Hard Power, but With a High Bar: [National Desk]

Author: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie; Bennett, Kitty

Publication info: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie; Bennett, Kitty. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/desantis-foreign-policy-hard-power-with-high-bar/docview/2789908136/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Florida governor has never been the internationalist that some old-guard Republicans wanted or imagined him to be. A close reading of his record reveals how he might lead the U.S. abroad.
When Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida made headlines recently by undercutting U.S. support for Ukraine, Republican hawks, many of whom cling to him as their only hope to defeat former President Donald J. Trump, wondered if they had misread him as an ideological ally.
Mr. DeSantis ditched his previous backing for Ukraine to align himself with the increasingly nationalistic Republican base, which he will need to win the 2024 presidential primary if he runs. But he was never the committed internationalist that some old-guard Republicans had wanted or imagined him to be.
Until now, Mr. DeSantis served as a Rorschach test for Republicans. There was, conveniently, something in his record to please each of the party's ideological factions, and he had every incentive to be all things to all Republicans for as long as he could get away with it.
Hawks had claimed Mr. DeSantis as their own for his fervent support of Israel and his denunciations of China, Iran, Cuba and Venezuela. And restraint-oriented Republicans had claimed Mr. DeSantis for his 2013 decision, as a congressman, to break with Republican hawks and oppose President Barack Obama's requests to intervene militarily in Syria.
Yet, despite his policy shifts and inconsistencies -- this week, he said he had failed to make himself clear on Ukraine and called President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia a "war criminal" -- Mr. DeSantis's worldview is not a mystery.
For a governor, Mr. DeSantis, whose spokeswoman declined interview requests, has an unusually long paper trail on foreign policy. A close reading of more than 200 of his speeches, votes, writings and television commentaries over the past decade, as well as interviews with his peers, reveal the makings of a DeSantis Doctrine.
'Just a Jacksonian'
Tucked between the campaign boilerplate in Mr. DeSantis's new book, "The Courage to Be Free," is a short chapter describing how his service in Iraq, as an officer in the Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps, reinforced his doubts about former President George W. Bush's "messianic impulse."
"Bush sketched out a view for American foreign policy that constituted Wilsonianism on steroids," Mr. DeSantis writes, referring to former President Woodrow Wilson's idealistic liberal internationalism after World War I. He recalls his reaction to a line in Mr. Bush's second inaugural address: "The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands."
"I remember being stunned," Mr. DeSantis writes. "Does the survival of American liberty depend on whether liberty succeeds in Djibouti?"
Mr. DeSantis's analysis of Mr. Bush's attempt to use the military to "socially engineer a foreign society" is the sort of thing one hears from conservative elites who call themselves Jacksonians, after President Andrew Jackson, the 19th-century populist. Though The New York Times could find no public record of the Florida governor describing himself as a Jacksonian, the word kept coming up in interviews with people who know Mr. DeSantis.
"I think he's kind of dead-center where Republican voters are, which is to say that he's neither an isolationist nor a neoconservative, he's just a Jacksonian," said David Reaboi, a conservative national security strategist whom Mr. DeSantis has hosted at the governor's mansion.
Mr. Reaboi was referring to a 1999 essay by the academic Walter Russell Mead, "The Jacksonian Tradition and American Foreign Policy," which is still in heavy circulation on the intellectual right. It defines a Jacksonian as having a narrow conception of the U.S. national interest: protection of its territory, its people, its hard assets and its commercial interests overseas.
A Jacksonian does not dream of implanting "American values" on foreign soil. He or she believes that if the U.S. military is to be deployed, it should use as much force as necessary to achieve a quick, clearly defined "victory," with as few American casualties as possible. A Jacksonian cares little about lopsided casualty counts -- so long as they're in America's favor -- or about international law.
Unlike Mr. Trump, a fellow Jacksonian but one who operates on pure instinct and would never dream of suffering through a foreign policy treatise, Mr. DeSantis has read deeply and has formed a philosophy about America's place in the world. But you will rarely hear Mr. DeSantis invoke abstract values to justify the use of force -- as some of his potential 2024 rivals and current party leaders have done.
He has not framed the Ukraine war as a battle for "freedom," as former Vice President Mike Pence has done, or as a mission to defend the post-World War II international security framework, as Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, has done. If Mr. DeSantis is elected president, there is unlikely to be any more Biden-esque talk of "autocracies versus democracies." In Mr. DeSantis's framing, these are the idealistic mutterings of a "Wilsonian."
Mr. DeSantis's former House colleagues could not recall him ever worrying about whether girls got an education in Afghanistan or whether democracy could be spread throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Instead, they recall him expressing a hard-nosed and narrow view of the American national interest.
"After law school, Governor DeSantis didn't take a Wall Street job or join a human rights N.G.O.," said Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, who served with Mr. DeSantis in the House and remains close to him. "He joined the military, which both reflected his worldview and probably further shaped it, as did his choice to serve six years on the House Foreign Affairs Committee."
Mr. DeSantis favors a robust U.S. military. A President DeSantis would most likely increase military spending; as a House member, he spoke approvingly of Mr. Trump's increase of the Pentagon's budget.
In Iraq, one of Mr. DeSantis's jobs was to provide counsel to commanders on the rules governing the battlefield. He saw his role as being a "facilitator, not an inhibitor," he writes in his new book. He chafed at what he viewed as overly restrictive rules of engagement.
"It is unacceptable to send someone wearing our nation's uniform to a combat zone with one hand tied behind his back," Mr. DeSantis writes. "War is hell, and it puts the lives of our military personnel at risk if operations get mired in bureaucracy and red tape."
Mr. DeSantis's Jacksonianism predates the presidency of Mr. Trump.
In 2013 and 2014, Mr. DeSantis broke with Republican hawks who were encouraging Mr. Obama to intervene militarily in Syria. Mr. DeSantis rejected the idea of missile strikes to respond to President Bashar al-Assad's use of gas. And he voted against an amendment that would have authorized Mr. Obama to train and equip vetted Syrian rebels, because "mujahedeen fighters in Syria are not moderates nor are they pro-American."
Contempt for the State Department and the United Nations
Mr. DeSantis has often cited the writings of the late conservative intellectual Angelo Codevilla -- and in particular his 2010 book, "The Ruling Class: How They Corrupted America and What We Can Do About It."
Mr. Codevilla, whose book came out at the height of the Tea Party movement, describes a permanent "ruling class" in Washington that looks down on the rest of the country and "makes decisions about war and peace at least as much forcibly to tinker with the innards of foreign bodies politic as to protect America."
This ruling class -- a phrase Mr. DeSantis has co-opted -- includes both the Republican and Democratic Party establishments. In his telling, these elites have pursued an unpatriotic agenda: They have assigned the U.S. military unwinnable and therefore demoralizing missions, and have been too generous to foreigners.
This mental model defines how Mr. DeSantis thinks about the State Department and international institutions like the United Nations.
In a floor speech on Jan. 5, 2017, Mr. DeSantis called for defunding the U.N. until the Security Council revoked a resolution condemning Israeli settlements as violations of international law.
Mr. DeSantis derides the foreign policy professionals at the State Department to such an extent that it's difficult to imagine him meeting with them, let alone listening to their advice. Mr. DeSantis has complained that the State Department is "Arabist in outlook" and "all in" with the Muslim Brotherhood.
To the right of Trump on Israel
In the early days of the Trump administration, the most pro-Israel president in living memory wasn't pro-Israel enough for Mr. DeSantis, who was still a congressman. On Jun. 1, 2017, Mr. DeSantis issued a statement condemning Mr. Trump for delaying a decision to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem.
Public records show that Mr. DeSantis took only three foreign trips as a House member and has taken one foreign trip as governor. All were to Israel.
In March 2017, Mr. DeSantis flew to Israel and scouted potential sites for the U.S. Embassy to heap public pressure on Mr. Trump to keep his campaign promise. Mr. DeSantis later pushed Mr. Trump to recognize the Golan Heights as Israeli territory -- another controversial move.
Mr. DeSantis has promised to be the "most pro-Israel governor in America" -- a stance that helps him with both Jewish and evangelical constituents in Florida.
He has used his powers as governor to pressure American companies to drop their boycotts of Israel. He took on Unilever over the decision by one of its companies, Ben & Jerry's, not to sell ice cream in the occupied territories. Mr. DeSantis added Unilever to Florida's "scrutinized companies" list, and Unilever reversed its decision. He used the same tactic against Airbnb -- successfully pressuring the company to reverse itself over eliminating listings in Israeli settlements.
As president, Mr. DeSantis would not be expected to dissuade Israel from annexing further land. He has referred to the West Bank as "Judea and Samaria," using the biblical names for the territory used by right-wing Israelis.
During his first year in office, Mr. Trump briefly gestured at considering the Palestinian point of view. He even hosted the Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, at the White House. It is hard to imagine Mr. DeSantis doing the same.
In early 2018, when Mr. Trump was still aiming for what he called "the ultimate deal" between the Israelis and the Palestinians, Mr. DeSantis told the Heritage Foundation that a peace deal was not "worth spending capital on."
China superhawk
As governor, Mr. DeSantis has sought to restrict Chinese investments in Florida. His actions against the Chinese Communist Party suggest that as president, his China policy would be more comprehensively aggressive than Mr. Trump's. But he seems to care less about trade issues than Mr. Trump did, and more about security concerns.
Mr. DeSantis appears less likely to chase a Chinese trade deal, as Mr. Trump did for most of his presidency, and more likely to accelerate efforts to block Chinese investments in the U.S., especially in the high-tech and security sectors. (President Biden has kept Mr. Trump's China tariffs.)
In February, the DeSantis office announced a proposal to ban TikTok and "other social media platforms with ties to China" from state government devices.
Mr. DeSantis has promised legislation to stop people or companies with China ties from buying "agricultural land and lands surrounding military bases," and he plans to ban gifts to Florida universities from people or companies connected to the Chinese Communist Party.
Political calculation and inconsistencies
Mr. DeSantis's recent statement that defending Ukraine was not a vital U.S. interest came after CNN unearthed comments he made in 2015 -- which were circulated by people in Mr. Trump's orbit -- urging Mr. Obama to do more to defend Ukraine against Russia. As soon as Mr. DeSantis pivoted, the Trump campaign attacked him as a flip-flopping fake.
If it was a politically calculated shift by Mr. DeSantis, it would not have been the first.
On Sept. 9, 2013, Mr. DeSantis told Fox News that he accepted the Obama administration's evidence that the Syrian government had gassed its people. But this, Mr. DeSantis argued, did not justify missile strikes against Syria, which he said risked escalating the conflict.
Mr. DeSantis sounded different when the president firing missiles in response to Syrian gas was Mr. Trump. In a Fox News appearance on April 15, 2018, Mr. DeSantis said, "The strikes did what they were intended to do."
Nor has Mr. DeSantis been entirely consistent in his Jacksonianism. Speaking on a foreign policy issue that is politically potent in Florida, he can sound positively Wilsonian. He told the Venezuelan people in 2017, "We hear your cries of freedom."
Mr. DeSantis encouraged Mr. Trump -- who ended up pushing unsuccessfully for regime change in Venezuela -- "to apply additional pressure on the Maduro regime."
Photograph Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida has worked to align himself with the nationalistic Republican base to improve his chances in 2024. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Presidents; Governors; International law; Diplomatic & consular services; Armed forces; Foreign policy

Location: Florida; Syria; United States--US; Israel; Ukraine; Iraq

People: DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: United Nations--UN; NAICS: 928120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/22/us/politics/ron-desantis-foreign-policy.html

Title: The DeSantis Foreign Policy: Hard Power, but With a High Bar:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 24, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2789908136

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/desantis-foreign-policy-hard-power-with-high-bar/docview/2789908136/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Looking for the American Dream in Europe: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kaysen, Ronda

Publication info: Kaysen, Ronda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-american-dream-europe/docview/2788008727/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Home sales to Americans have increased significantly, giving them a chance to enjoy a lifestyle they could not afford in major U.S. cities, but the influx risks upsetting local residents.
Ben Mitas sipped Vinho Verde from a stemmed wineglass while he watched his daughter play on a swing one afternoon in January. He had bought the wine from a quiosque, the ubiquitous park kiosks, a luxury of living in Lisbon.
Mr. Mitas and his wife, Megan, moved to Portugal from Florida in 2019, renting a four-bedroom apartment for 2,500 euros (or about $ 2,700) a month in Campo de Ourique, a quiet neighborhood with small shops and restaurants. Last year, they bought a 19th-century house in Lapa, a historic neighborhood perched high above the river, with embassies and 18th-century palaces and mansions with tiled facades, that they will renovate into their "forever home," said Ms. Mitas, 31. Mr. Mitas, 40, a mortgage broker, travels back to Florida frequently for work, but their life is in Lisbon where their two small children are in pre-K and day care.
The family fits right in. Here in the Portuguese capital, English speakers are seemingly everywhere. On the day Mr. Mitas took his daughter to the park, two women sat on a nearby bench, strollers at their feet, as they chatted in English.
The previous afternoon, Rita Silva, a researcher at Habita!, a housing rights organization, leaned forward intently on a tattered red sofa, her elbows on her knees, surrounded by bookshelves and hand-painted banners inside the group's storefront headquarters in the trendy Intendente neighborhood. She was preparing to meet with Lisbon residents facing eviction. Even Habita! is feeling the squeeze: The group's landlord will not renew its lease, which expires next year. Lisbon "stopped being affordable for the people who live and work in this country," Ms. Silva said.
Americans, unable to afford the kinds of homes they want in the kinds of domestic cities where they want to live, like San Francisco and New York, are moving to Southern Europe in significant numbers. Drawn to the region by its mild climate and low cost of living, made even more affordable by a strong dollar, many Americans gush about trading a car-dependent lifestyle for the chance to live in a vibrant, European city on the cheap.
What is cheap for these Americans is brutally expensive for southern Europeans, whose average wages are substantially lower than Americans'. Locals are competing for housing against wealthy foreigners in markets already distorted by Airbnbs and corporate real estate investment. The result is a generation failing to launch, with more than 90 percent of southern Europeans under 35 still living at home, rates that eclipse their American counterparts. Those who have apartments face evictions and unpredictable rent increases in cities with weak rental protections, like Lisbon, Barcelona and Athens.
"It's soul-breaking," said Alkis Kafetzis, 40, a project coordinator at Eteron Institute for Research and Social Change in Athens, which studies housing inequities.
The surge in foreign investment is no accident. Portugal, Spain and Greece have courted deep-pocketed foreigners and corporations, hoping to attract talent, bolster their economies and spur development. Portugal and Spain recently introduced digital nomad visas that allow remote workers to live in the country for an extended period of time, echoing a similar visa in Greece. In Spain, home sales to Americans jumped by 88 percent from the first half of 2019 to the first half of 2022. Americans were among those willing to spend the most per square meter, bested only by the Danes in how much they paid in the first half of 2022, according to Spanish government data.
By 2022, nearly 10,000 American citizens were living in Portugal, up a stunning 239 percent from 2017, according to data provided by the Portuguese government.
The Americans who are setting roots here are embracing a life where the weather is pleasant, the lunches are long and they can get by with translation apps and a handful of phrases. Americans say that even if they attempt to stumble through a conversation, locals quickly switch to English since the language is so prevalent in European cities. But their children arrive home from school bilingual, giving parents like Mr. and Ms. Mitas access to tiny translators to help them navigate the tricky moments when Google Translate isn't sufficient.
"Their main concern is lifestyle migration. They really, truly want to live here and have a more cosmopolitan lifestyle," said Luis Mendes, an urban geographer at the University of Lisbon.
Baptized in the Aegean
"The way you live is so much more free and enjoyable here," said Christian, 17, as his 8-year-old sister, Evangelia, glided past him on roller skates on her way to take a spin around the dining room table. "Everyone's calm, it's not like, 'do this, do this, do that."'
The Mallios family is from Colts Neck, N.J., a rural community in central New Jersey with sprawling estates and horse farms, including one owned by Bruce Springsteen.
They arrived in Greece in July 2020, after Melissa and Demetrios Mallios bought a €350,000 house on Evia, an island near Athens. The purchase qualified for a golden visa, a residency program available in several European countries that gives home buyers years of residency in exchange for spending a significant sum in cash on real estate.
The family spent the 2021 school year renting a house in Athens while their children attended an international school there. By 2022, Mr. and Ms. Mallios put their New Jersey home on the market, and bought the €1.45 million condo in Kifissia, a northern Athens suburb with tree-lined streets and multimillion-euro villas hidden behind high stone walls. At almost €427 a square foot, high-end homes sell in Kifissia for about 44 percent more than comparable ones in the rest of Athens, according to RE/Max Europe.
On a Sunday evening, families were strolling around Kifissia's downtown, which is full of upscale restaurants, cafes and boutiques -- Bottega Veneta, Max Mara and Wolford, the Austrian lingerie brand.
The Mallios children now attend a private virtual school, Pearson Online Academy, which allows them to shuttle between their homes in Athens and Evia, but hasn't given Evangelia many opportunities to learn Greek and make local friends. "I miss New Jersey," she said.
Her brother, however, has learned the language from his friends on the basketball team. "Throw in a couple 'malakas' in your sentence and you sound pretty fluent," he said, referring to the common vulgarity. And her father, Mr. Mallios, 52, a venture capitalist of Greek descent, speaks the language.
In Athens, home prices were up 13 percent in the third quarter of 2022 compared to the same time a year earlier, according to the Bank of Greece. Americans are increasingly interested in Greece's golden visa program, with applications up a stunning 740 percent from 2020 to 2021, according to Astons, an investment immigration firm.
Georg Petras, the chief executive of Engel & Völkers in Greece, said Americans flooded the Greek market in 2022, accounting for a quarter of his firm's foreign transactions. If the trend continues, Americans will become the third largest group of foreign buyers that his company handles.
Tension is painted on the streets of Athens, where graffiti scrawled on the sides of buildings proclaims, "Athens is Not for Sale" and "No Airbnb."
Greeks earn an average salary well below €20,000 a year in 2021, according to Eurostat, and have been battered by economic turmoil, austerity and inflation. Almost half of Greek renters are struggling to pay the rent, according to a 2022 survey by the Eteron Institute. "Being able to get a breath, to feel a little bit secure about the future is the exception, not the rule," Mr. Kafetzis of the Eteron Institute said. "This generation is always thinking about the next month."
At 30, Spiros Stamou owns the taxi he drives, but still lives with his parents, as do his friends. Driving through central Athens, he lamented his lot. "Some people tried to get their own apartment, but ended up going back home," he said, frustrated that it felt impossible for someone earning €600 a month to afford an apartment that costs €400 a month. "The cost of life, everything is getting higher," he said.
But for Ms. Mallios, Greece has been transformational.
"When I was back in the States, I felt so out of place," she said. When friends and family asked her why she chose to leave her home country, she replied: "I went for a beautiful life."
Last summer, Ms. Mallios, 38, converted to Greek Orthodox at a ceremony at their island house. Wearing a white dress, her blond hair braided atop her head wrapped in a gold-leaf tiara, she was baptized in the Aegean Sea.
On a Lark
The sun was glistening on the Mediterranean Sea as Ryan Ward stood on a bedroom balcony of his house, nestled in the forest above the seaside village of Tossa de Mar, in Spain.
"Where I'm from in California, I could never afford a place like this," said Mr. Ward, 37, who grew up in Orange County, Calif., where the average sales price is shy of $ 1 million.
Mr. Ward and his wife, Justyna Ward, bought the two-family home with a pool on the Costa Brava for €515,000 in February 2021. The couple lives with their infant and two-and-a-half-year-old sons in the three-bedroom apartment on the upper level of the duplex. They rent the two-bedroom apartment on Airbnb, and the entire house while they travel during the summer, earning enough rental income to pay the mortgage.
The Wards came to Spain in 2016 on a lark -- Mr. Ward's employer, a marketing firm, offered him a six-month stint in Barcelona that turned into a permanent one. Once they started a family, moving back to the United States didn't make sense. California was too expensive and Chicago, where Ms. Ward, 36, grew up, was too cold. After living in Europe, they could no longer imagine relinquishing the Mediterranean lifestyle and cultural richness they'd come to cherish in Spain. "What's the point of moving back?" Ms. Ward said as she sat on her sofa, nursing her newborn son, taking in the breathtaking view of the sea.
Foreigners are plucking up homes along the Spanish Coast, from Costa Brava in the north to Andalusia in the south. Spain's new digital nomad visa allows remote workers and freelancers to live in the country year round, as long as they earn most of their income outside of Spain and meet other requirements. Pay €500,000 in cash for property, and a foreigner can qualify for a golden visa. From January 2022 to January 2023, the number of parents from the United States looking for schools on the International Schools Database, a website, doubled, with Spain topping the list of destinations.
"If you can make €100,000 a year, you will live very well here," said Raf Jacobs, the founder of Inspire Property Experts, a real estate consultancy that helps foreigners settle in Spain.
The average Spanish salary was less than €30,000 a year in 2021. In Barcelona, rents have been rising for a decade, reaching an all-time high of €1,077 a month in the fourth quarter of 2022.
"Homeownership society is in crisis in Spain," said Carme Arcarazo, advocacy coordinator for Sindicat de Llogaters, a Barcelona tenants union.
Globe-trotting newcomers are not to blame for the crisis, said Jaime Palomera, a housing researcher for the Barcelona Urban Research Institute. Investment firms like Goldman Sachs and Blackstone swooped in and bought thousands of distressed properties in the wake of the global financial crisis, turning homes into securitized assets, he said. "This is much bigger than any individual American buying a home here," he said. "Regardless of your nationality, are you going to buy that home to live in it or you going to buy it as an asset in order to drive up the rent as much as possible?"
'Life Isn't Fair'
In Lisbon, the average rent for a two-bedroom apartment, at €1,700 a month in February, was up 39 percent from a year ago, and the average sales price for a two-bedroom was up 10 percent, to €457,730, according to Casafari, a real estate data company.
Between 2020 and 2021, the number of North Americans moving to Portugal doubled, at a time when migration from Europe and South America fell. Private schools have waiting lists and new ones are opening. In 2019, the number of Americans coming to the Carlucci American International School of Lisbon jumped by 60 percent, said Nate Chapman, the school's director. Now, Americans account for a quarter of his student body, up from 16 percent a decade ago. "Right now is a bit of a gold rush," he said.
For the Portuguese, with an average salary below €20,000 a year in 2021, the influx of Americans and subsequent rising prices are unsustainable.
Ms. Silva of Habita! said rent protections eliminated in the wake of the global financial crisis left tenants vulnerable to eviction and untenable rent increases. Inside her group's headquarters, folding chairs were arranged in a circle beneath a yellow tapestry, emblazoned with the phrase, "Casas são para morar" or "houses are for living." Outside, scaffolding and cranes are as common as the sound of the tourists' suitcase wheels clattering along the calçada portuguesa, the city's iconic squared cobblestones.
"We have an explosion of urban reinvestment. It's all for tourism, it's all for luxury," Ms. Silva said.
In response to the mounting housing crisis, Portugal ended its golden visa program in February, part of a sweeping package of changes. Last year, Americans bought more Portuguese golden visas than any other nationality in the world, edging out the Chinese. It was a dramatic reversal for Americans who, just four years earlier, weren't among the top five buyers of the visa.
Other visa programs for foreigners with means remain intact.
Amelia Guertin has been in the country on and off for the last year, living on a tourist visa while she applies for a long-term one. She arrived in Portugal after living in Hawaii, San Francisco and New York City, cities that felt "wildly unaffordable," she said. Immediately, she knew she wanted to settle in a place that felt cosmopolitan, but also laid back.
Earlier this year, she hunched over a laptop with her architect, Hannah Reusser, at Rove, a Lisbon bar with plush velvet sofas, exposed ductwork and moody lighting. Ms. Guertin, 31, had already started demolition on a small house she bought last October for €320,000 in Aroeira, a seaside town south of Lisbon, where she can surf.
Ms. Reusser discussed making the three-bedroom, two-bath space more functional, suggesting she rearrange the kitchen and living room. Ms. Guertin, the chief operating officer for a British tech start-up, pushed Ms. Reusser on the deadline. Was June realistic? Ms. Reusser worried it was too ambitious, given pandemic delays and material shortages.
An hour later, Ms. Guertin rushed down cobblestone streets, heading to her Portuguese language lesson a few blocks away, worrying about the schedule. "In Portugal, you have to have a lot of patience," said Ms. Guertin. "It feels disorganized, but I have confidence that it's going to get done."
At Da Noi, a tiny restaurant in central Lisbon, diners squeezed into tables and those who had come for drinks spilled out onto the street, talking in English, German and French. Mixing an Aperol spritz behind the bar was Simāo Martins, 22, an economics student at the University of Lisbon. He works full time, but lives at home with his mother, just like his friends.
"I don't want to be under her roof forever," he said. If he got his own apartment, he estimated half of his income would go to rent. So he is contemplating moving to Brazil or the Italian countryside, where the cost of living might be lower. Portugal "is cheap here for you, but not for us," he told a reporter. "And that bothers me."
The previous night, about a dozen foreigners and local Portuguese had gathered around a large wooden table at a restaurant for the OneThousandClub, an organization that encourages foreigners and Portuguese to mingle. But the room fell silent when one of the Portuguese guests, Hugo Janes, 44, asked how many would stay if the country were not a tax haven for foreigners.
The vibe turned defensive as the guests, a mix of French, Belgian and Americans, defended their tax status. In the debate, the Americans argued that they pay taxes to the United States.
These policies "are a catastrophe for the Portuguese," Mr. Janes, a product manager for Vodafone, told a reporter, voicing a growing resentment among his compatriots. "Life isn't fair, but there needs to be some fairness."
Bisco Smith, 42, an American graffiti artist who moved from New York to Lisbon with his wife, Jasmine, 39, and their young son, almost a year ago, has mixed feelings about his newfound city.
"There's a countrywide gentrification happening here. And it doesn't feel good," he said, sitting in his 2,000-square-foot artist's studio near the Beato Creative Hub, an innovation center. "I don't want to be the American that's here taking advantage of or displacing people."
Yet, Lisbon has been a welcoming city after a difficult period in New York, when he and his wife survived two serious car accidents. Since arriving in Lisbon, he joined a father's group called Expat Dudes and Dads, and his son is learning Portuguese in preschool. "Lisbon means safe harbor," he said. "My family needed safe harbor and we found it here."
Photograph Top, Ben and Megan Mitas with their children near their apartment in Lisbon. Above, the city's Alfama neighborhood. In 2022, nearly 10,000 American citizens were living in Portugal, which is up 239 percent from 2017. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KERRY MURRAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1); Far left, Ryan Ward, with his wife, Justyna, and their children in the family's backyard in Tossa de Mar, on the Costa Brava in Spain. The Wards purchased their two-family home there for €515,000 in February 2021. Because of Spain's new digital nomad visa, foreigners are plucking up homes in places along the Spanish coast, like Tossa de Mar, near left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMUEL ARANDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); From top: the Mallios family with their dog in the backyard of their condo in Kifissia, an Athens suburb; a view of their spacious backyard; the Mitas family at a park near their Lisbon apartment; Rita Silva, a researcher at Habita, a housing rights organization that offers guidance to tenants facing eviction in Lisbon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIA MAVROPOULOU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KERRY MURRAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIME) (RE12) This article appeared in print on page RE1, RE12.

Subject: Real estate sales; Housing prices; Families & family life; Housing; Rents; Neighborhoods; Lifestyles

Business indexing term: Subject: Housing prices

Location: Spain; Greece; United States--US; New Jersey; Portugal; Florida; Evia; Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/17/realestate/europe-homes-sale-americans-lisbon-barcelona.html

Title: Looking for the American Dream in Europe:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 19, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2788008727

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-american-dream-europe/docview/2788008727/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York T imes Company Mar 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cozy Tech Ties Helped a Bank Thrive, and Fall: [National Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike; Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike; Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cozy-tech-ties-helped-bank-thrive-fall/docview/2787789104/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: More than many other banks, SVB catered to how risky tech start-ups and their backers do not adhere to normal business practices.
When Kleiner Perkins, one of Silicon Valley's highest-profile venture capital firms, wanted to build a bridge between two of its office buildings around 2005, it decided to take out a loan. It turned to Silicon Valley Bank, just 43 feet away on Sand Hill Road in the heart of the venture industry in Menlo Park, Calif.
To make the loan work for Kleiner's project, which cost more than $ 500,000, SVB agreed to lend the money against the value of the fees that the venture firm was set to earn from its funds, four people with knowledge of the situation said.
SVB also provided personal banking services to many of Kleiner's top partners, the people said. That was in addition to the banking services and venture debt that SVB provided to many of Kleiner's start-ups, as well as mortgages for those companies' founders. SVB even invested in Kleiner's funds, two people said.
And when SVB held an annual event in January on the state of the wine industry, it featured speakers from Wine.com, one of the world's largest online wine retailers and a company that Kleiner had once invested in.
Before SVB failed last week and set off a global financial panic, it was known mostly as a regional, low-profile bank. But within tech's ecosystem, the bank had molded itself to the quirks and idiosyncrasies of the industry, becoming deeply interwoven to an unusual degree into the lives and businesses of investors, entrepreneurs and executives.
For 40 years, the institution catered to the fact that high-growth, high-risk tech start-ups and their backers do not adhere to normal business practices. These companies put a priority on breakneck growth, shift strategies frequently and celebrate failure as a learning opportunity. They are often worth billions before ever turning a profit, and they can go from silly idea to behemoth at astonishing speed. Most crucially, they rely on a tight network of money, workers, founders and service providers to function.
That unique and often irrational reality required a specialized bank.
"There were a lot of ways in which Silicon Valley Bank was intertwined in the lives of Silicon Valley people that was unique," said Anat Admati, a professor of finance at Stanford. "The bank had relationships and made relationships with people across Silicon Valley. It was a point of congregation."
This week, SVB -- which was taken over last Friday by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation -- tried picking up the pieces from its collapse. On Monday, it held a call with investors to tell them that it had reopened for business, even as it was looking for a buyer.
Mark Suster, an investor at Upfront Ventures who was on the call, said he and his firm were both customers of the bank. SVB also co-sponsored a conference that Mr. Suster's firm recently hosted, and in the aftermath of the implosion, Upfront Ventures endorsed a letter, co-signed by a group of firms, encouraging founders to keep or return 50 percent of their total capital with the bank.
"They understand you will have cash in multiple banks, they would like to be one of them," Mr. Suster wrote to start-up founders on Twitter.
A spokesman for the F.D.I.C. did not respond to a request for comment.
SVB was best known for courting young, risky start-ups that other banks would not bank with. But its tentacles went far beyond that.
The bank lent cash to many top venture firms, including Andreessen Horowitz. From its own $ 9.5 billion fund, it invested in start-ups including OpenDoor, a home buying company, and Chainalysis, a cryptocurrency investigation start-up, as well as venture capital funds including Sequoia Capital's. It incubated some financial technology companies that were building tools for start-up investors. And it schmoozed the tech industry, sponsoring ski trips, conferences, industry newsletters and fancy dinners.
It was all part of the virtuous cycle that makes the tech industry tick, investors and founders said. Any time a start-up wanted a loan, the bank talked to its backers, said Samir Kaji, who worked at SVB in the 1990s and is now chief executive of Allocate, a tech platform for managing venture investments.
"There were constant touch points with the investors," he said. "Everyone knows each other."
As Silicon Valley's start-up industry flourished, SVB expanded its services, helping to manage the outsize wealth the industry produced. That included providing lower-interest-rate mortgages for founders whom other banks wouldn't lend to. Many entrepreneurs are worth millions on paper but have little cash in their bank accounts.
SVB also branched out to industries adjacent to tech, such as the wineries of Napa and Sonoma Valleys, where many tech founders and executives spend their weekends. Last year, the bank lent $ 1.2 billion to wine producers.
Gavin Newsom, California's governor, who praised SVB's bailout last week, has received loans for three of his wineries from SVB, according to the bank's website.
SVB's dominance was well known at Y Combinator, a start-up incubator. Dozens of tech founders who participated in Y Combinator last year were told to open bank accounts at SVB, and they were introduced to SVB bankers at Y Combinator events, said three people who took part in Y Combinator's 2022 class of tech entrepreneurs over the summer.
One described a cocktail hour mixer in which he was introduced to an SVB banker who could provide a loan to his start-up once he graduated from Y Combinator's program. Six months later, when he needed a loan to buy his first home, he went to SVB. The bank looked at his company's valuation, based on the money it had raised in its first round of funding, and spoke to investors of his company. It granted a loan after two other banks turned him down, he said.
SVB's home loans were significantly better than those from traditional banks, four people who received them said. The loans were $ 2.5 million to $ 6 million, with interest rates under 2.6 percent. Other banks had turned them down or, when given quotes for interest rates, offered over 3 percent, the people said.
Drive Capital, a venture firm in Columbus, Ohio, banked with SVB and had lines of credit with the bank that allowed it to wire money to its start-ups faster than asking its own backers to send the money for each individual deal. SVB also invested in Drive Capital's first fund and in two of its portfolio companies. In total, a third of Drive Capital's portfolio used SVB's banking services, which included venture debt, a specialized kind of credit for venture-backed start-ups.
"If you're a venture capitalist or start-up company, it's fair to say in some way, shape or form, SVB touched every part of your business," Chris Olsen, an investor at Drive Capital, said.
Sequoia Capital, a top venture firm that backed Airbnb, Apple and Zoom, always recommended its start-ups to open an account with SVB, Mike Moritz, a Sequoia partner, wrote in a Financial Times opinion piece. Stripe, which is one of the most valuable private tech start-ups and counts Sequoia as its largest shareholder, used SVB for a product that lets international start-ups form companies in the United States, he noted.
Last week, partners at Andreessen Horowitz sent a letter to its investors to assuage concerns about SVB's collapse, according to a copy of the memo reviewed by The New York Times. About half the firm's start-ups had banking relationships with SVB, the memo said. The firm also had an outstanding loan of about $ 16 million from the bank for "tenant improvements," or renovations to the firm's offices.
Marc Andreessen, an Andreessen Horowitz founder, called hedge funds and some of the world's biggest banks to help find a buyer for SVB last week, two people with knowledge of the calls said. Scott Kupor, another Andreessen Horowitz partner, handled panicked portfolio companies and questions from the firm's investors.
An Andreessen Horowitz spokeswoman declined to comment.
Matt Mireles, a start-up founder, encountered SVB when the bank invited him to its box at the San Francisco Giants' stadium in 2010. Ten years later, he had a hard time getting a mortgage because his start-up, Oasis, an artificial intelligence company that had raised more than $ 8 million in funding, was unprofitable. He began to think the only way he could own a home was if he worked for a big tech company.
But SVB looked at Mr. Mireles's venture funding and list of investors and offered him a reasonable mortgage with a 20 percent down payment.
"That's one of the things that's cool about Silicon Valley -- the bank and the place," he said. "These institutions made the entrepreneurial lifestyle -- where you might take two or three failures to get to some level of success -- they made it viable for people."
Last week, SVB's greatest strength -- its interconnected community of customers -- became a double-edged sword. When venture capitalists began worrying about the bank's financial solvency, that quickly led to panic across the start-up world.
That Thursday, SVB hosted a dinner at the South by Southwest tech festival in Austin, Texas, serving chargrilled salmon and filet mignon to a group of investors and start-up founders at Perry's Steakhouse.
As anxiety over the bank's future rippled through group chats, emails and social media, attendees started referring to the party as "the last supper."
Jake Chapman, an investor at Marque Ventures who attended the dinner, said he had pulled the host aside to ask about the brewing meltdown and had been rebuffed. "She just said the balance sheet was strong," he said.
By the next morning, SVB customers had tried transferring $ 42 billion of deposits from the bank, leading the F.D.I.C. to shut it down.
Photograph More than other banks, Silicon Valley Bank was enmeshed in the businesses of tech investors, entrepreneurs and executives. Below left, Mike Moritz, chairman of Sequoia Capital, who advised clients to bank with SVB; and Marc Andreessen, co-founder and general partner of Andreessen Horowitz, who is said to have called hedge funds and other investors to find a buyer for the bank. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SIMON DAWSON/BLOOMBERG; DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Banking industry; Bank accounts; Startups; Funding; Venture capital; Mortgages; Entrepreneurs; International finance; Interest rates; Loans; Bank failures; Bank technology

Business indexing term: Subject: Banking industry Bank accounts Startups Venture capital Mortgages Entrepreneurs International finance Interest rates Loans Bank failures Bank technology

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Silicon Valley Bank-Santa Clara CA; NAICS: 522110; Name: Y Combinator; NAICS: 523910; Name: Drive Capital; NAICS: 523910; Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Upfront Ventures; NAICS: 523910; Name: Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; NAICS: 523910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/17/technology/svb-tech-start-ups.html

Title: Cozy Tech Ties Helped a Bank Thrive, and Fall:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2787789104

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cozy-tech-ties-helped-bank-thrive-fall/docview/2787789104/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Mortgages, Wine and Renovations: Silicon Valley Bank’s Deep Tech Ties

Author: Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike; Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike; Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mortgages-wine-renovations-silicon-valley-bank-s/docview/2787727260/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — When Kleiner Perkins, one of Silicon Valley’s highest-profile venture capital firms, wanted to build a bridge between two of its office buildings around 2005, it decided to take out a loan. It turned to Silicon Valley Bank, just 43 feet away on Sand Hill Road in the heart of the venture industry in Menlo Park, California.
To make the loan work for Kleiner’s project, which cost more than $500,000, SVB agreed to lend the money against the value of the fees that the venture firm was set to earn from its funds, four people with knowledge of the situation said.
SVB also provided personal banking services to many of Kleiner’s top partners, the people said. That was in addition to the banking services and venture debt that SVB provided to many of Kleiner’s startups, as well as mortgages for those companies’ founders. SVB even invested in Kleiner’s funds, two people said.
And when SVB held an annual event in January on the state of the wine industry, it featured speakers from Wine.com, one of the world’s largest online wine retailers and a company that Kleiner had once invested in.
Before SVB failed last week and set off a global financial panic, it was known mostly as a regional, low-profile bank. But within tech’s ecosystem, the bank had molded itself to the quirks and idiosyncrasies of the industry, becoming deeply interwoven to an unusual degree into the lives and businesses of investors, entrepreneurs and executives.
For 40 years, the institution catered to the fact that high-growth, high-risk tech startups and their backers do not adhere to normal business practices. These companies put a priority on breakneck growth, shift strategies frequently and celebrate failure as a learning opportunity. They are often worth billions before ever turning a profit, and they can go from silly idea to behemoth at astonishing speed. Most crucially, they rely on a tight network of money, workers, founders and service providers to function.
That unique and often irrational reality required a specialized bank.
“There were a lot of ways in which Silicon Valley Bank was intertwined in the lives of Silicon Valley people that was unique,” said Anat Admati, a professor of finance at Stanford. “The bank had relationships and made relationships with people across Silicon Valley. It was a point of congregation.”
This week, SVB — which was taken over last week by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. — tried picking up the pieces from its collapse. On Monday, it held a call with investors to tell them that it had reopened for business, even as it was looking for a buyer.
Mark Suster, an investor at Upfront Ventures who was on the call, said he and his firm were both customers of the bank. SVB also co-sponsored a conference that Suster’s firm recently hosted, and in the aftermath of the implosion, Upfront Ventures endorsed a letter, co-signed by a group of firms, encouraging founders to keep or return 50% of their total capital with the bank.
“They understand you will have cash in multiple banks, they would like to be one of them,” Suster wrote to startup founders on Twitter.
A spokesperson for the FDIC did not respond to a request for comment.
SVB was best known for courting young, risky startups that other banks would not bank with. But its tentacles went far beyond that.
The bank lent cash to many top venture firms, including Andreessen Horowitz. From its own $9.5 billion fund, it invested in startups including OpenDoor, a homebuying company, and Chainalysis, a cryptocurrency investigation startup, as well as venture capital funds including Sequoia Capital’s. It incubated some financial technology companies that were building tools for startup investors. And it schmoozed the tech industry, sponsoring ski trips, conferences, industry newsletters and fancy dinners.
It was all part of the virtuous cycle that makes the tech industry tick, investors and founders said. Anytime a startup wanted a loan, the bank talked to its backers, said Samir Kaji, who worked at SVB in the 1990s and is now CEO of Allocate, a tech platform for managing venture investments.
“There were constant touch points with the investors,” he said. “Everyone knows each other.”
As Silicon Valley’s startup industry flourished, SVB expanded its services, helping to manage the outsize wealth the industry produced. That included providing lower-interest-rate mortgages for founders whom other banks wouldn’t lend to. Many entrepreneurs are worth millions on paper but have little cash in their bank accounts.
SVB also branched out to industries adjacent to tech, such as the wineries of Napa and Sonoma valleys, where many tech founders and executives spend their weekends. Last year, the bank lent $1.2 billion to wine producers.
Gavin Newsom, California’s governor, who praised SVB’s bailout last week, has received loans for three of his wineries from SVB, according to the bank’s website.
SVB’s dominance was well known at Y Combinator, a startup incubator. Dozens of tech founders who participated in Y Combinator last year were told to open bank accounts at SVB, and they were introduced to SVB bankers at Y Combinator events, said three people who took part in Y Combinator’s 2022 class of tech entrepreneurs over the summer.
One described a cocktail hour mixer in which he was introduced to an SVB banker who could provide a loan to his startup once he graduated from Y Combinator’s program. Six months later, when he needed a loan to buy his first home, he went to SVB. The bank looked at his company’s valuation, based on the money it had raised in its first round of funding, and spoke to investors of his company. It granted a loan after two other banks turned him down, he said.
SVB’s home loans were significantly better than those from traditional banks, four people who received them said. The loans were $2.5 million to $6 million, with interest rates less than 2.6%. Other banks had turned them down or, when given quotes for interest rates, offered more than 3%, the people said.
Drive Capital, a venture firm in Columbus, Ohio, banked with SVB and had lines of credit with the bank that allowed it to wire money to its startups faster than asking its own backers to send the money for each individual deal. SVB also invested in Drive Capital’s first fund and in two of its portfolio companies. In total, one-third of Drive Capital’s portfolio used SVB’s banking services, which included venture debt, a specialized kind of credit for venture-backed startups.
“If you’re a venture capitalist or startup company, it’s fair to say in some way, shape or form, SVB touched every part of your business,” said Chris Olsen, an investor at Drive Capital.
Sequoia Capital, a top venture firm that backed Airbnb, Apple and Zoom, always recommended its startups to open an account with SVB, Mike Moritz, a Sequoia partner, wrote in a Financial Times opinion piece. Stripe, which is one of the most valuable private tech startups and counts Sequoia as its largest shareholder, used SVB for a product that lets international startups form companies in the United States, he noted.
Last week, partners at Andreessen Horowitz sent a letter to its investors to assuage concerns about SVB’s collapse, according to a copy of the memo reviewed by The New York Times. About half the firm’s startups had banking relationships with SVB, the memo said. The firm also had an outstanding loan of about $16 million from the bank for “tenant improvements,” or renovations to the firm’s offices.
Marc Andreessen, an Andreessen Horowitz founder, called hedge funds and some of the world’s biggest banks to help find a buyer for SVB last week, two people with knowledge of the calls said. Scott Kupor, another Andreessen Horowitz partner, handled panicked portfolio companies and questions from the firm’s investors.
An Andreessen Horowitz spokesperson declined to comment.
Matt Mireles, a startup founder, encountered SVB when the bank invited him to its box at the San Francisco Giants’ stadium in 2010. Ten years later, he had a hard time getting a mortgage because his startup, Oasis, an artificial intelligence company that had raised more than $8 million in funding, was unprofitable. He began to think the only way he could own a home was if he worked for a big tech company.
But SVB looked at Mireles’ venture funding and list of investors and offered him a reasonable mortgage with a 20% down payment.
“That’s one of the things that’s cool about Silicon Valley — the bank and the place,” he said. “These institutions made the entrepreneurial lifestyle — where you might take two or three failures to get to some level of success — they made it viable for people.”
Last week, SVB’s greatest strength — its interconnected community of customers — became a double-edged sword. When venture capitalists began worrying about the bank’s financial solvency, that quickly led to panic across the startup world.
That Thursday, SVB hosted a dinner at the South by Southwest tech festival in Austin, Texas, serving chargrilled salmon and filet mignon to a group of investors and startup founders at Perry’s Steakhouse.
As anxiety over the bank’s future rippled through group chats, emails and social media, attendees started referring to the party as “the last supper.”
Jake Chapman, an investor at Marque Ventures who attended the dinner, said he had pulled the host aside to ask about the brewing meltdown and had been rebuffed. “She just said the balance sheet was strong,” he said.
By the next morning, SVB customers had tried transferring $42 billion of deposits from the bank, leading the FDIC to shut it down.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Banking industry; Bank accounts; Startups; Funding; Venture capital; Mortgages; Entrepreneurs; International finance; Interest rates; Loans; Wineries & vineyards

Business indexing term: Subject: Banking industry Bank accounts Startups Venture capital Mortgages Entrepreneurs International f inance Interest rates Loans Wineries & vineyards

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; California

People: Newsom, Gavin

Company / organization: Name: Silicon Valley Bank-Santa Clara CA; NAICS: 522110; Name: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; NAICS: 524128; Name: Y Combinator; NAICS: 523910; Name: Drive Capital; NAICS: 523910; Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Upfront Ventures; NAICS: 523910

Identifier / keyword: Columbus (Ohio); Banking And Financial Institutions; Restaurants; Y Combinator; Ohio; Real Estate (Commercial); Sequoia Capital; Business; Southern States (Us); Venture Capital; United States; WineCom; Corporations; Airbnb; Admati, Anat R; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; California; Credit And Debt; Andreessen Horowitz; South By Southwest Music And Media Conference; Silicon Valley Bank; Apple Inc; San Francisco Giants; Social Media; Mortgages; Texas; Southwestern States (Us); Computers And The Internet; Entrepreneurship; Twitter; Workplace Environment; Napa (Calif); Newsom, Gavin; San Francisco (Calif); New York State; Stocks And Bonds; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Andreessen, Marc L; Stanford University; Valley Bank; Silicon Valley (Calif); Financial Times; Stripe Inc; Home Equity Loans; Compensation For Damages (Law); Austin (Tex); Start Ups; New York Times

Title: Mortgages, Wine and Renovations: Silicon Valley Bank’s Deep Tech Ties

Publication title: New Yor k Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-17T23:30:41Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2787727260

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mortgages-wine-renovations-silicon-valley-bank-s/docview/2787727260/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Happens To College Towns When Colleges Start to Shrink?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Depillis, Lydia

Publication info: Depillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-happens-college-towns-when-colleges-start/docview/2787436140/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To hear more audio stories from publications like The New York Times, download Audm for iPhone or Android .
For decades, institutions of higher education provided steady, well-paid jobs in small towns where the industrial base was waning. But the tide of young people finishing high school is now also starting to recede, creating a stark new reality for colleges and universities -- and the communities that grew up around them.
As Americans have fewer children and a diminishing share of young adults pursue a degree, the once-burgeoning market for college slots has kicked into reverse. Although undergraduate enrollment stabilized somewhat in 2022, it's still down about 7.6 percent since 2019.
"It looks like the future is declining numbers of young people likely to attend college, even in growing areas like the Mountain West," said Nathan Grawe, an economics professor at Carleton College in Minnesota who studies the demand for postsecondary education. "We'll start to have some tough stories."
Evidence of a shrinking student body is everywhere in the western Pennsylvania borough of Clarion, population 3,880, which has taken immense pride in the graceful campus of Clarion University since the institution was founded as a seminary 156 years ago.
Since 2009, when it had 7,346 students, the university has shrunk by nearly half. With the drop in enrollment has come the loss of nearly 200 staff members, mostly through attrition. Last year, the school even lost its name, as it was merged with two of the 13 other universities in the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education, creating a multicampus university called PennWest.
Tracy Becker, who looks out on Main Street from her broad desk at the city's chamber of commerce, says there aren't as many young volunteers for community events like the annual Autumn Leaf Festival, which has been held during homecoming weekend since 1953.
Kaitlyn Nevel's cafe used to be staffed mostly with university students; now she has one such employee. As foot traffic lightened, she branched into catering. "Ideally, I would love to see the university stay and thrive, but you just have to try and have however many backup plans," Ms. Nevel said.
As Ms. Nevel's resigned optimism suggests, declining enrollment doesn't necessarily spell doom for college towns. Despite the lower student head count, few empty storefronts mar Clarion's downtown. It has even attracted new businesses like Mechanistic Brewing, which Chelsea Alexander started with her husband in 2019 after moving back from Washington, D.C.
Ms. Alexander is one of 28 people in her family to attend the local university. Since 1905, her family has run a clothing shop in town, which sells a line of T-shirts that trade on alumni nostalgia for favorite eateries that have long since closed and for towering dorms that have been demolished. But as graduating classes shrink, even alumni visits will taper off.
Ms. Alexander's father, Jim Crooks, operates the store, and he has organized local merchants to spruce up the compact main street and market their businesses to potential visitors who may have no such connection to the town.
"For many years, the university was carrying a lot of the businesses," said Mr. Crooks, who has also converted four apartments above the shop from student housing into Airbnb lodgings. "Everybody's just saying, 'We can't depend on the university."'
Although Pennsylvania's university system had been shrinking for a decade, along with the rest of higher education, it experienced a sudden shock when students disappeared during the pandemic. Among those who noticed: the leaders at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, whose territory across Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware has a higher density of colleges and universities than most.
Along with large hospital systems, which are often affiliated with universities, educational institutions make up a substantial share of local economies that used to be dominated by manufacturing, logging and mining. Patrick T. Harker, the president of the Philadelphia Fed, wanted to find out how big that share was -- since the education and medical sectors were starting to show cracks as well.
"Traditionally, 'eds and meds' have been thought of as recession-proof," Dr. Harker said. "This pandemic showed that is not true."
Not all of those institutions are equally vulnerable, however. Rural hospitals have been drying up even as large health care chains build new facilities in fast-growing suburbs, while the dwindling pool of students flocks to state flagships. "They're stronger than ever, while the regional systems are really struggling," said Deborah Diamond, an economic development expert at the Philadelphia Fed.
Dr. Diamond put together a tool that showed how much different regions depended on health care and higher education. The places at the top of the dependence list were predictable, like the Durham-Chapel Hill area of North Carolina, with two powerhouse universities. But they also included smaller areas, like the one surrounding Bloomsburg, Pa., two and a half hours east of Clarion on Interstate 80. There, institutions including Geisinger Health and Bloomsburg University -- another state-owned school -- make up 21.9 percent of local employment and 18.3 percent of regional income.
"As we've seen some declines in manufacturing employment, their economic relevance is higher than it's ever been," said Fred Gaffney, the president of the area's chamber of commerce.
A similar set of factors is evident in Clarion County, where the university is still the largest employer, followed by Clarion Hospital. Walmart comes next, and then a few plants making building materials and prefabricated housing, several social service organizations and the county government. The county used to have more manufacturing, including a large glass plant that closed in 2010. As that receded, so did the county's population; its labor force dropped to 16,000 in 2022, from about 21,000 in 2008.
In the same period, Clarion University's enrollment began to fall, as did state funding, raising the price of attendance. In 2021, Daniel Greenstein, the chancellor of the State System of Higher Education, proposed forming two clusters of three schools each, to consolidate operations and offer more classes across campuses.
"We had to align our costs with our new enrollment numbers," Dr. Greenstein said in an interview. "We were built out as if we were still having 120,000 students when we had 85,000. You just can't do that. Like every American family, you have to live within your means."
At the same time, Mr. Greenstein requested more money from the State Legislature to enable the system to freeze tuition and offer more scholarships, which he said was critical to arresting the slide in enrollment. The state increased the system's base funding by 15 percent in 2022 and threw in $ 125 million from a federal stimulus measure. The freshman class grew slightly last fall, but not enough to offset another overall drop in enrollment.
For the merged schools, swooning enrollment underestimates the degree to which student presence has faded on campus. To bolster their course catalogs, the schools are offering more of their classes online. That allows some students to show up in person only a few days a week -- a trend that may accelerate as the system pursues more adult students, some of whom just need to finish degrees or complete shorter certificate programs.
Clarion's mayor, Jennifer Fulmer Vinson -- another Clarion graduate -- sees that as a loss for the borough. History classes come less often to her antiques shop, which sits in a century-old house reclaimed from a long-gone fraternity, stuffed with curios including an old Coke machine and a cabinet full of war medals.
"Why are students going to come pay to live on campus when they never leave their room?" Ms. Vinson said. "It's become more of a ghost town." (The university says that the first-year student experience is meant to be campus-centered and that most courses will remain in person.)
About an hour's drive west on Interstate 80 from Bloomsburg, the town of Lock Haven also has a university that last year merged with two others in the state-owned system. As the school has shrunk and well-paid staff members have moved away, the state's substantial tax-free land holdings have started to grate on local residents.
Gregory Wilson, the city manager, has created a handout showing what the median property owner pays in taxes to subsidize Lock Haven University: $ 186 annually.
"I think the hope has always been that the investment they're making to have the university here is somehow returned to them," Mr. Wilson said. "But that becomes a harder sell as the university becomes smaller."
The contraction has come alongside another recent and unwelcome development: The local hospital, which the sprawling University of Pittsburgh Medical Center bought in 2017, announced in January that it would shutter its inpatient operations, forcing residents to travel at least a half an hour for serious care.
All of it has been profoundly frustrating for Angela Harding, a Clinton County commissioner, who says that while she values the hospital and the university, drawing new residents to Lock Haven becomes harder as those economic anchors lose their grip.
"I'm sick and tired of having to fight for every single crumb that we get," Ms. Harding said.
Colleges and the towns they occupy can do little about demographic currents. But they should, experts say, reinforce each other -- the university can offer space for community functions and support for small businesses, for example, while the town can throw events for prospective students and their parents. Vacant student housing could be converted into homes for new residents who might be able to work remotely or want a quiet place to retire.
Matthew Wagner, the director of programs for Main Street America, a group dedicated to the development of small downtowns, says he sees less town-gown tension now that municipalities and schools understand their shared fates.
"Much like if you had a manufacturer that was facing headwinds, we need to think of the university as an economic development retention program, and direct our assets and resources that way," Dr. Wagner said.
Lock Haven has taken that idea to heart. Its main street is vibrant, with several new boutiques interspersed with longstanding local restaurants. Fabre Sanders, whose father runs a window-treatment store, moved back from Boston a few years ago to start a candy and gift shop. During the pandemic, she said, residents did everything they could to keep the shops alive.
"They looked around and said, 'If we don't support the local we have, we're going to have nothing,"' Ms. Sanders said.
Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Photograph Clarion University in Pennsylvania, which was founded as a seminary 156 years ago, is now part of the multicampus PennWest system. In 2009, Clarion had 7,346 students, but enrollment has dwindled by nearly half since then. (B1); Jennifer Fulmer Vinson, the mayor of Clarion. Pa., operates an antiques shop in a century-old house reclaimed from a long-gone fraternity.; "Ideally, I would love to see the university stay and thrive," said Kaitlyn Nevel, above, a cafe owner, "but you just have to try and have however many backup plans." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROSS MANTLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

ERIC Subject: Adult Students; Student Experience; Universities

Subject: Enrollments; Young adults; Higher education; Students; Manufacturing; Schools; College campuses; Pandemics; Towns; Colleges & universities

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Colleges & universities

Location: Pennsylvania; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Clarion University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/13/business/economy/college-towns-economy.html

Title: What Happens To College Towns When Colleges Start to Shrink?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 17, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2787436140

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-happens-college-towns-when-colleges-start/docview/2787436140/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 17, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Colleges Have Been a Small-Town Lifeline. What Happens as They Shrink?

Author: DePillis, Lydia

Publication info: DePillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/colleges-have-been-small-town-lifeline-what/docview/2787665757/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
CLARION, Pa. — For decades, institutions of higher education provided steady, well-paid jobs in small towns where the industrial base was waning. But the tide of young people finishing high school is now also starting to recede, creating a stark new reality for colleges and universities — and the communities that grew up around them.
As Americans have fewer children and a diminishing share of young adults pursue a degree, the once-burgeoning market for college slots has kicked into reverse. Although undergraduate enrollment stabilized somewhat in 2022, it’s still down about 7.6% since 2019.
“It looks like the future is declining numbers of young people likely to attend college, even in growing areas like the Mountain West,” said Nathan Grawe, an economics professor at Carleton College in Minnesota who studies the demand for postsecondary education. “We’ll start to have some tough stories.”
Evidence of a shrinking student body is everywhere in the western Pennsylvania borough of Clarion, population 3,880, which has taken immense pride in the graceful campus of Clarion University since the institution was founded as a seminary 156 years ago.
Since 2009, when it had 7,346 students, the university has shrunk by nearly half. With the drop in enrollment has come the loss of nearly 200 staff members, mostly through attrition. Last year, the school even lost its name, as it was merged with two of the 13 other universities in the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education, creating a multicampus university called PennWest.
Tracy Becker, who looks out on Main Street from her broad desk at the city’s chamber of commerce, said there aren’t as many young volunteers for community events like the annual Autumn Leaf Festival, which has been held during homecoming weekend since 1953.
Kaitlyn Nevel’s cafe used to be staffed mostly with university students; now she has one such employee. As foot traffic lightened, she branched into catering. “Ideally, I would love to see the university stay and thrive, but you just have to try and have however many backup plans,” Nevel said.
As Nevel’s resigned optimism suggests, declining enrollment doesn’t necessarily spell doom for college towns. Despite the lower student head count, few empty storefronts mar Clarion’s downtown. It has even attracted new businesses like Mechanistic Brewing, which Chelsea Alexander started with her husband in 2019 after moving back from Washington, D.C.
Alexander is one of 28 people in her family to attend the local university. Since 1905, her family has run a clothing shop in town, which sells a line of T-shirts that trade on alumni nostalgia for favorite eateries that have long since closed and for towering dorms that have been demolished. But as graduating classes shrink, even alumni visits will taper off.
Alexander’s father, Jim Crooks, operates the store, and he has organized local merchants to spruce up the compact main street and market their businesses to potential visitors who may have no such connection to the town.
“For many years, the university was carrying a lot of the businesses,” said Crooks, who has also converted four apartments above the shop from student housing into Airbnb lodgings. “Everybody’s just saying, ‘We can’t depend on the university.’”
Although Pennsylvania’s university system had been shrinking for a decade, along with the rest of higher education, it experienced a sudden shock when students disappeared during the pandemic. Among those who noticed: the leaders at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, whose territory across Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware has a higher density of colleges and universities than most.
Along with large hospital systems, which are often affiliated with universities, educational institutions make up a substantial share of local economies that used to be dominated by manufacturing, logging and mining. Patrick T. Harker, the president of the Philadelphia Fed, wanted to find out how big that share was — since the education and medical sectors were starting to show cracks as well.
“Traditionally, ‘eds and meds’ have been thought of as recession-proof,” Harker said. “This pandemic showed that is not true.”
Not all of those institutions are equally vulnerable, however. Rural hospitals have been drying up even as large health care chains build new facilities in fast-growing suburbs, while the dwindling pool of students flocks to state flagships. “They’re stronger than ever, while the regional systems are really struggling,” said Deborah Diamond, an economic development expert at the Philadelphia Fed.
Diamond put together a tool that showed how much different regions depended on health care and higher education. The places at the top of the dependence list were predictable, like the Durham-Chapel Hill area of North Carolina, with two powerhouse universities. But they also included smaller areas, like the one surrounding Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, 2 1/2 hours east of Clarion on Interstate 80. There, institutions including Geisinger Health and Bloomsburg University — another state-owned school — make up 21.9% of local employment and 18.3% of regional income.
“As we’ve seen some declines in manufacturing employment, their economic relevance is higher than it’s ever been,” said Fred Gaffney, the president of the area’s chamber of commerce.
A similar set of factors is evident in Clarion County, where the university is still the largest employer, followed by Clarion Hospital. Walmart comes next, and then a few plants making building materials and prefabricated housing, several social service organizations and the county government. The county used to have more manufacturing, including a large glass plant that closed in 2010. As that receded, so did the county’s population; its labor force dropped to 16,000 in 2022, from about 21,000 in 2008.
In the same period, Clarion University’s enrollment began to fall, as did state funding, raising the price of attendance. In 2021, Daniel Greenstein, the chancellor of the State System of Higher Education, proposed forming two clusters of three schools each, to consolidate operations and offer more classes across campuses.
“We had to align our costs with our new enrollment numbers,” Greenstein said in an interview. “We were built out as if we were still having 120,000 students when we had 85,000. You just can’t do that. Like every American family, you have to live within your means.”
At the same time, Greenstein requested more money from the state Legislature to enable the system to freeze tuition and offer more scholarships, which he said was critical to arresting the slide in enrollment. The state increased the system’s base funding by 15% in 2022 and threw in $125 million from a federal stimulus measure. The freshman class grew slightly last fall, but not enough to offset another overall drop in enrollment.
For the merged schools, swooning enrollment underestimates the degree to which student presence has faded on campus. To bolster their course catalogs, the schools are offering more of their classes online. That allows some students to show up in person only a few days a week — a trend that may accelerate as the system pursues more adult students, some of whom just need to finish degrees or complete shorter certificate programs.
Clarion’s mayor, Jennifer Fulmer Vinson — another Clarion graduate — sees that as a loss for the borough. History classes come less often to her antiques shop, which sits in a century-old house reclaimed from a long-gone fraternity, stuffed with curios including an old Coke machine and a cabinet full of war medals.
“Why are students going to come pay to live on campus when they never leave their room?” Vinson said. “It’s become more of a ghost town.” (The university says that the first-year student experience is meant to be campus-centered and that most courses will remain in person.)
About an hour’s drive west on Interstate 80 from Bloomsburg, the town of Lock Haven also has a university that last year merged with two others in the state-owned system. As the school has shrunk and well-paid staff members have moved away, the state’s substantial tax-free land holdings have started to grate on local residents.
Gregory Wilson, the city manager, has created a handout showing what the median property owner pays in taxes to subsidize Lock Haven University: $186 annually.
“I think the hope has always been that the investment they’re making to have the university here is somehow returned to them,” Wilson said. “But that becomes a harder sell as the university becomes smaller.”
The contraction has come alongside another recent and unwelcome development: The local hospital, which the sprawling University of Pittsburgh Medical Center bought in 2017, announced in January that it would shutter its inpatient operations, forcing residents to travel at least half an hour for serious care.
All of it has been profoundly frustrating for Angela Harding, a Clinton County commissioner, who says that while she values the hospital and the university, drawing new residents to Lock Haven becomes harder as those economic anchors lose their grip.
“I’m sick and tired of having to fight for every single crumb that we get,” Harding said.
Colleges and the towns they occupy can do little about demographic currents. But they should, experts say, reinforce each other — the university can offer space for community functions and support for small businesses, for example, while the town can throw events for prospective students and their parents. Vacant student housing could be converted into homes for new residents who might be able to work remotely or want a quiet place to retire.
Matthew Wagner, the director of programs for Main Street America, a group dedicated to the development of small downtowns, said he sees less town-gown tension now that municipalities and schools understand their shared fates.
“Much like if you had a manufacturer that was facing headwinds, we need to think of the university as an economic development retention program, and direct our assets and resources that way,” Wagner said.
Lock Haven has taken that idea to heart. Its main street is vibrant, with several new boutiques interspersed with long-standing local restaurants. Fabre Sanders, whose father runs a window-treatment store, moved back from Boston a few years ago to start a candy and gift shop. During the pandemic, she said, residents did everything they could to keep the shops alive.
“They looked around and said, ‘If we don’t support the local we have, we’re going to have nothing,’” Sanders said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Adult Students; Student Experience; Universities

Subject: Enrollments; Higher education; Young adults; Students; Manufacturing; Schools; College campuses; Pandemics; Towns; Colleges & universities

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Colleges & universities

Location: Pennsylvania; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Clarion University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: United States; Stimulus (Economic); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); University Of Minnesota; State Legislatures; New Jersey; Children And Childhood; Names, Organizational; Durham (Nc); Carleton College; Delaware; Relocation Of Business; Youth; Airbnb; Philanthropy; North Carolina; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Shopping And Retail; Population; Bloomsburg University; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Pennsylvania; Scholarships And Fellowships; Local Government; Shutdowns (Institutional); Education (K 12); Factories And Manufacturing; Minnesota; Stocks And Bonds; University Of Pittsburgh Medical Center; Hospitals; States (Us); Rural Areas; Labor And Jobs; Coronavirus Aid, Relief, And Economic Security Act (2020); Walmart Stores Inc; Chapel Hill (Nc); Philadelphia (Pa); Washington (Dc); Business; Colleges And Universities; United States Economy

Title: Colleges Have Been a Small-Town Lifeline. What Happens as They Shrink?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 16, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-16T22:56:05Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2787665757

Document URL: https: //www.proquest.com/newspapers/colleges-have-been-small-town-lifeline-what/docview/2787665757/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 16, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Encountering Another Jamaica

Author: Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie

Publication info: Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/encountering-another-jamaica/docview/2786778515/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
“So,” said the tour guide, midway through our trip to Jamaica. “What are you really looking for?”
It was a good question. In most of the places we went, our group of four women had been welcomed, warned and flirted with. But, we were rarely asked many questions about the nature of our trip. We’d flown in from England and the United States in mid-November, just before high season, intending to see the country over the course of a month, while staying in and visiting as many locally owned businesses and guesthouses as we could.
Traveling from the east of the lush island to the west, and mostly avoiding the tourist hot spots of Ocho Rios, Montego Bay and Negril, we sought out places that were the opposite of what Jamaica, and many Caribbean islands, have become known for: resort-style luxury that doesn’t always offer locals a significant slice of the tourism pie. As a granddaughter of Jamaican immigrants, the search had special resonance for me.
“When people come to the Caribbean, they’re being funneled into this journey of the airport to the resort, and that’s all they see of the country,” said Riaz Philips, author of the award-winning cookbook “West Winds: Recipes, History and Tales from Jamaica.” “Usually, if you follow the money trail of that passage, it doesn’t lead to any tangible benefits for the people who live and work in those countries.”
Nicole Dennis-Benn, who wrote about the dark side of Jamaican tourism in her debut novel, “Here Comes the Sun,” explained that it can be hard for Jamaicans to start successful businesses. “It’s really impossible if you don’t come from wealth already. You’re not going to find much ownership among the Jamaican working class,” she said.
Even many of the white-sand beaches that foreign visitors enjoy are off-limits to residents, and are instead controlled by hotels and resorts, which limit access to their guests. Of the island’s approximately 493 miles of coastline, less than 3 miles are designated as public beaches, and about half of those are used in association with hotels, according to a recent government policy paper. The public beaches that do exist are often rundown and not fit for use. That exclusion is emblematic of what some locals feel is the continuing legacy of colonialism and the history of slavery on the island.
Committed to discovering the country that few visitors see, we set out to discover if it was possible to be good tourists and travel to Jamaica beyond the resorts.
To the Blue Mountains
Our trip began with a long journey from Montego Bay’s Sangster International Airport to Kingston on the Knutsford Express (a Greyhound-equivalent bus) and then a taxi up and across the Blue Mountains, high above the capital, to stay at the BlueMountView guesthouse.
We arrived at night after a treacherous drive. But we woke the next morning to the chirping of insects and a stunning sight: The guest rooms, made with an abundance of polished natural wood, are surrounded by trees, and built into the edge of a great crevasse, looking out over a plunging swathe of greenery.
It was at BlueMountView that we met Noel Lindo and his wife, Michelle. The self-described “King of the Mountain,” Lindo was born in the area. After living in London for most of his adult life, he and Michelle decided to return to Jamaica to live in 2011 — building their own house, and then the guesthouses. They are explicitly LGBTQ-friendly in a country that is not always hospitable to gay visitors, treat guests like family — and hand-roast their own coffee on-site.
Lindo is fatherly, frank and incredibly chatty. He likes to layer stories upon stories, taking us from the streets of 1970s London to colonial Jamaica and back again.
“There’s so much to do in this mountain. It’s unbelievable,” he said enthusiastically, pointing out hiking trails in the Blue and John Crow Mountains National Park, hidden waterfalls and coffee plantations, many of them owned by locals. Although it’s isolated, we discovered that BlueMountView is within hiking distance of Strawberry Hill, the famous hotel started by the Island Records founder, Chris Blackwell. We stopped at Eits Cafe, where we gorged on tender saltfish fritters, warming pumpkin ginger soup and sticky, delicious, caramelized-plantain crepes while looking out across the misty mountains, surrounded by the buzz of swallowtail hummingbirds.
It was through Lindo that we wound up taking a day trip to visit the parish of Portland, on the island’s northeast coast. Although perhaps predominantly known for its beaches and as the location of the Blue Lagoon, made famous in the 1980 movie, we had a more rural experience. Our first stop was the Living Daylights, an eco-farm, restaurant and bar in the jungle of Bonnie View Hill, Port Antonio, that has been open since 2018, aiming to offer guests “a piece of paradise,” with a focus on sustainability.
Jesse Crosby’s family has farmed the land for more than 50 years, but he always had ambitions to do something more with it, and when he met Brandon Powell (who has both Jamaican and U.S. citizenship), they were able to make that a reality.
Arriving at midday, we were treated to a sweaty, fun farm hike led by Crosby. He picked cinnamon leaves from the trees for us to sniff, jostled down coconuts for us to drink from and showed us hidden plantain trees. This was followed by a delicious farm-to-table meal cooked by Simi Brenner, the owner of the Moussa Pot, a vegan restaurant, that included a chickpea curry with moringa leaf, ripe plantain and coco yam leaf and a salad made from June plum, cucumber and sorrel leaf. The Moussa Pot has since moved to a new location in Portland, but the Living Daylights will continue to offer farm-to-table meals in future.
Our second stop in Portland was the self-governing Maroon community of Charles Town in Buff Bay Valley, whose residents are descendants of proud Africans who escaped enslavement by fleeing to mountainous regions. It was one of the few times in Jamaica where we were viscerally reminded of the island’s dark history and its continuing legacy.
A tour of the small museum charted the history of the Maroons and how they have protected their freedom and culture over centuries, creating their own communities and belief systems while fighting against British slave owners and colonialists in a series of wars. Marcia Douglas, the current leader of the community (and the first woman to hold the position), held up a heavy shackle that would have once been clasped around an enslaved person’s neck. Later, other members of the community brought out drums and sang. We were taught dances that bind the present and the past.
“What we’re offering in the tourism sector is our heritage, our ancestral inheritance,” Douglas told me after the tour.
Treasure Beach and Community Tourism
Another long, bumpy drive took us from the Blue Mountains down to Treasure Beach, a village in the southwest parish of St. Elizabeth. It’s probably the area in Jamaica best known for community tourism — low-impact travel that works in relative sync with the locals. Once a fishing village, over the past 30 years, Treasure Beach has become a beacon for tourists looking to travel off the beaten track.
The town is small, hot and with dusty roads lined by cactuses and flowers. Its treasures were somewhat hidden; shacks that looked inconsequential at first glance came alive at different times of the day. The stunning beaches were a more obvious draw, along with a variety of well-priced, locally owned guest rooms and villas on Airbnb, such as the Azteca Villas: a collection of newly built guesthouses, with a small shared pool, only a few minutes away from the beach and the main, albeit tiny, strip of shops and places to eat.
We spent the bulk of our time in Treasure Beach, sampling locally owned highlights like Smurfs Café for the best Jamaican breakfast in town; Eggy’s Beach Bar for the coldest Red Stripes right on the sand; and Gee Wiz for tasty, reasonably priced vegan food in an eclectic setting — the restaurant is painted in fading, cotton candy colors and flanked with statues of long-beaked fish, while the huge, pillared dining room boasts colorful murals.
Floyd’s Pelican Bar, built from driftwood and palm fronds on a sandbank in the middle of the ocean, has to be the area’s best-known spot. Constructed in 2001 by Floyde Forbes, it’s a slick operation these days, requiring a boat journey that costs $40 per person at a minimum from Treasure Beach. But the vibes, a mile away from shore, are sun-drenched and otherworldly. The freshly caught fried escovitch fish and bammy (a type of cassava flatbread) were the best I had on the island.
Treasure Beach is still an anomaly in Jamaica’s tourism sector.
“There’s no question that over 90% of Jamaica’s traditional room stock is all-inclusive,” said Jason Henzell, chair and co-owner of Jakes Hotel, the largest business in the area, who also runs a nonprofit to support locals. “I sat on the board of the Jamaican Ministry of Tourism for eight years, and I know they had been quite hesitant about community tourism. Not necessarily in Treasure Beach, but overall, because they were worried about crime. That’s the cold, hard truth.”
The Ministry of Tourism did not respond to requests for comment.
But then, he said, Airbnb changed everything. “It happened in spite of the ministry not wanting it. It’s almost as though Airbnb was made for Jamaica, right? Because, you know, every Jamaican is a character.”
The other reality of Treasure Beach, though, is that much of the beachfront land has been bought up by non-Jamaicans. Henzell, who has helped landowners sell property in the area, tells me that land these days goes for over $1 million an acre, putting it out of reach of most locals.
“We know that tourism is our number one revenue. And a lot of the time when people are living in a prime area, especially working class Jamaicans, they tend to displace them,” said Dennis-Benn, whose upcoming novel will explore land ownership.
But, Henzell pointed out, the majority of large guesthouses in Treasure Beach, four out of five, are owned by locals. And, he added, “you have some foreigners who are extremely respectful of our community, respectful of our traditions, respectful of our heritage and culture.”
Last stop, Mel’s
Our last stop, two hours from Treasure Beach, was Mel’s Botanical Retreat, situated on Cave Mountain, in Westmoreland, the westernmost parish of Jamaica. The retreat, featuring three handbuilt wooden cabins and a communal kitchen, is high above the shimmering Caribbean Sea and nestled in the lush jungle. At present, it’s being run by a teenage girl named Kiara Clayton. She is motherless and grieving, but trying to do something very special: keeping a dream of Black-woman-owned community tourism alive.
Kiara’s mother, Melessia Rodney, founded the retreat, built on the site of her family’s longtime goat pasture. In the summer of 2021, she was pregnant with her second child and had recently married the love of her life. But then, in August, she died: At age 36, COVID took her and her unborn baby.
Five months later, 15-year-old Kiara decided to take over the business; balancing it alongside schoolwork and her ambitions to study to become a lawyer or an entrepreneur in America. Despite her age, she understands the power of legacy. With the help of her family and her mother’s many friends from all over the world, she is continuing to host guests at the retreat.
One night, Kiara joined me in the communal kitchen to talk about the business and why she decided to carry it on. “She wanted it to be this Black Jamaican woman-owned business. She just loved being strong and independent,” she said.
What makes the property special among the thousands of Airbnbs across Jamaica is its commitment to these ideals. “It’s really rare, in Jamaica, to have a woman born in poverty, and become as successful as Mel became with her goat pasture,” said Stacey Davis, a family friend who helped Mel in the early days of the retreat. “Every flower in that retreat, everything you see, she did by hand.”
Although Kiara has faced some financial struggles with maintaining the property since her mother died, it remains a haven for guests seeking that ephemeral and elusive trait: authenticity. Mel, and now Kiara, encourage guests to engage with the local community on the south side of the island.
At Benta River Falls, an hour or so’s drive away from Mel’s, we were treated to a joyous day at a series of cascading waterfalls and deep pools, led by two energetic guides. The property’s owner, Stacy Wilson, played dominoes with a bunch of men in the small bar next to the falls, while we ate a delicious plate of crispy fries, and giggled with the pink-haired bartender. Wilson’s American cousin, Jahcobee Faith, explained that the family has owned the area since the 1970s, but only set up business in 2017, charging, at the time we visited, $20 for tourists and a nominal 500 Jamaican dollars, or about $3.25, for locals.
Closer to Mel’s, Bluefields beach provided all the white sand and azure, temperate water you could wish for, along with the knowledge that it is one of the few beaches on the island that explicitly remains open for locals. It’s looked after by the Bluefields People’s Community Association, which promotes sustainable social and economic development. With towels spread out under a tree, we sipped strong rum cocktails and played with local children in the water. We were guests, but we were accepted.
The reality is that Jamaica beyond the resorts is beautiful but impoverished, and still visibly recovering from the pandemic. It can get expensive if you don’t drive and need to rely on taxis to get around, though route taxis, as used by locals, can offset some costs. The country has a Level 3 warning from the State Department, with some regions listed as Level 4, Do Not Travel, but these were not on our itinerary. Traveling around the country felt completely safe in a group; just keep your wits about you, and remain polite.
Stepping out of your comfort zone is a must: Taking the easy options will not lead you to the communities that will really benefit from the money that tourism can bring. It’s on us, as tourists, to seek them out, move within them with an awareness of our relative privileges, and remember the human stories behind their businesses. There are deep sacrifices that some working-class Jamaicans have made to try and bring a new type of tourism to the surface.
As Kiara said to me, measuring her words, at the end of our conversation: “It was Mel’s dream and now it’s my dream, but it probably doesn’t have to work out the way it was going to work for her, for me. Maybe something else is destined for me.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Resorts & spas; Travel; Veganism; Colonialism; Mountains; Restaurants; Tourism; Beaches; Towns; Airports

Business indexing term: Subject: Resorts & spas Restaurants Airports

Location: United States--US; Jamaica; Blue Mountains

Identifier / keyword: Travel; Forbes Magazine; Island Records; Instagram Inc; Facebook Inc; Twitter; New York Times; Great Britain; England; Beacon (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Sustainability (Journal); Netatmo Sas; Express Inc; Africa; Beacon (Ny); Simi (1988 ); Pink (1979 ); Jason (Cartoonist) (1965 ); Communal Kitchen (Nyack, Ny, Restaurant); United States; Mother (Beacon, Ny, Gallery); Journey To Lead; Vivarini, Antonio (1440 80); One Campaign; Airbnb; History Channel; Caribbean Area; DeliciousCom; Freedom (Me); Southern States (Us); London (England); Dennis Benn, Nicole; Blackwell, Chris; Jamaica (West Indies); Autumn (Season); Real Estate (Commercial); Children And Childhood; National Parks, Monuments And Seashores; Trees And Shrubs; Relocation Of Business; Gifts; Land Use Policies; Immigration And Emigration; Poverty; Plantain (Vegetable); Slavery (Historical); Hotels And Travel Lodgings; Polls And Public Opinion; Colonization; Agriculture And Farming; Bars And Nightclubs; Black People; Seafood; Luxury Goods And Services; Books And Literature; Veganism; Politics And Government; Water Pollution; Shutdowns (Institutional); Hikes And Hiking; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Cooking And Cookbooks; Restaurants; Women And Girls; Local Food; Sustainable Living; Flowers And Plants; Television; International Relations; Beaches

Title: Encountering Another Jamaica

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 14, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-14 @ 21:42

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2786778515

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/encountering-another-jamaica/docview/2786778515/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When a Wildfire Causes Cancellation: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kugel, Seth

Publication info: Kugel, Seth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-wildfire-causes-cancellation/docview/2785990359/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A reader has been offered a credit she is finding hard to use. Who should bear the financial burden in a case of force majeure? Our columnist weighs the competing claims.
Dear Tripped Up,
I booked a house on Lake Tahoe through Vrbo for my family to attend a wedding in September 2021. About two weeks before the wedding, we saw on the news that the Caldor wildfire had impacted the region, causing evacuations and blocked roads and filling the air with heavy smoke. Our group included young children, those with asthma and the elderly, for whom this environment would be a serious health risk. I canceled with Vrbo, but they would not refund me, offering me a credit toward a future rental through Evolve, the property manager, valid for two years. Evolve has significantly fewer listings than Vrbo, and I've been unable to find a satisfactory substitute anywhere on the California, Oregon or Washington coasts, for a visit with my son in Dillon, Colo., or to see family near Boston. With the deadline approaching, I feel like I'm being forced into a vacation I don't want to take in a place I don't want to go, and I want a refund. Can you help? Sally, Seattle
Dear Sally,
Most complaints that come in to Tripped Up are relatively straightforward cases of right and wrong. But yours -- complete with multiple middlemen, reams of fine print and a natural disaster -- has more to unpack than a warehouse of lost luggage. Before we begin, let's remember that hundreds of families lost their homes in the Caldor fire, which burned more than 200,000 acres in the area from August to October 2021. (No one died, but two civilians and several firefighters were injured.)
Now, let's start by introducing the ensemble cast. You, Sally, are the Renter. Playing Middleman #1, we have Vrbo, the site where you made your reservation. Middleman #2 is Evolve, the nationwide property management company. And giving an underappreciated performance as Actual Owners are Doug and Michelle Turner. A bit part is played by Generali Global Assistance, the provider of the insurance policy you could have purchased through Vrbo but did not. Airbnb makes a cameo appearance in a nonspeaking role.
The curtain rises in late August. You and your family were eagerly awaiting your trip -- planned for Sept. 15 to 20, 2021 -- but the Caldor fire was spreading quickly, edging closer to Tahoe. On Aug. 30, a swath of the lake's southern and southwestern shoreline was evacuated, up to Tahoma, about a 25-minute drive south of your rental. On Sept. 1, President Biden declared a federal emergency. You monitored the situation, and then, on Sept. 7, you wrote to Vrbo to request a cancellation.
Alas, the response came quickly: "Your booking no longer qualifies for a refund," Vrbo wrote, noting that they were merely following the host's policy: cancellations accepted up to two weeks before check-in. I read just about every related policy -- Vrbo's and Evolve's rental agreements, as well as Evolve's agreement with hosts -- and they are right. The rental policy very clearly states that "no refunds will be due in the event your stay at the Vacation Rental becomes impossible for a reason outside Evolve's or Host's control, including natural disasters, fire, epidemic, pandemic, federal, state, or local quarantine, civil commotion, changes in laws or regulations, evacuation orders, or other acts of government agencies."
If you had only canceled when you heard about the evacuation, or even on the day President Biden declared the fire a federal disaster (exactly two weeks before your stay), you would have gotten your money back in full.
So why did you even get a credit? Evolve's policy goes on to say that in extenuating circumstances like natural disasters, "Evolve may choose, in its sole discretion and as your sole remedy, to issue a travel credit of the amounts paid to Evolve as an act of good will."
That is what they did, giving you two years -- until this coming September -- to book a property. (Essentially this gives you until September 2024, since you can make a reservation a year out.) I did search Evolve's listings using your criteria and found a few places I thought might work, but you made reasonable arguments against them. Evolve said they have plenty of good properties available, over 25,000 across the country, although coverage is spottier in some regions than others. Had your credit been with Vrbo, which has more than two million properties, you would have found something easily.
Alas, Vrbo was just the middleman to the middleman here, and your money had long since been passed to Evolve, with the exception of Vrbo's fee of $ 242. And as Trisha McDonell, a Vrbo spokeswoman, told me and you confirmed, Vrbo long ago returned that chunk of money to you.
It is worth noting that the Turners' house is also listed on Airbnb, as are all Evolve properties. During the Caldor fire, Airbnb activated its Extenuating Circumstances policy, which "takes precedence over the reservation's cancellation policy," and allowed for refunds or credit for certain reservations during the Caldor fire. Or so they told the news site SFGATE at the time -- they did not respond when I asked them for comment.
Their policy might not have applied to your rental, since the house was not in the evacuation zone. But if it had applied -- presumably in the form of a credit -- that would have been far easier to use than Evolve's credit, given Airbnb's six million listings.
But let's look at the larger issue: Should you be forced to take a vacation adjacent to a forest fire? And if you, understandably, don't want to, who should pay the price in cases of force majeure? Renters like you? One of the Middlemen? The Actual Owners? I suppose some would argue that the big corporations should pay and the sympathetic travelers should be made whole, but what if Mr. and Mrs. Turner had been renting the place out themselves, instead of going through Evolve? Should they have to return your money even though you signed an agreement saying they wouldn't have to?
Because hotels often have more generous refund policies, allowing you to cancel 24 to 48 hours before your trip, they are generally a less risky choice than vacation rentals. But not always, especially if you get a discount for making a nonrefundable reservation.
Wait, what is that voice offstage? Why, it is travel insurance -- potentially our hero, but in reality, just a bit player, because you declined Vrbo's insurance. Generali's policy would have covered you if you had been staying in an evacuation zone, and, according to Patrick Turner, a company spokesman, it's possible that if you had been able to document why you couldn't go -- say, an email from the local government urging you not to come, or a letter from a doctor saying it would be too dangerous for your family, then it might have covered your situation. It's impossible to say, but though I'm generally not a fan of travel insurance except for medical coverage and cruises, I might have to add vacation rentals to the list.
One final element was bugging me here: Where is your money, right now? Julia Marvin, the Evolve spokeswoman, told me that your money, around $ 2,240, is still with Evolve, awaiting your use of the credit. I wondered what would happen if you didn't use the credit, would Evolve get to keep it all? What about the Turners, our Actual Owners?
So I got in touch with them. Over Zoom, Mr. Turner told me that he had received $ 1,887.60 for your rental. So it looks like Evolve had both paid the homeowner and was willing to take a loss if you use your credit, something Ms. Marvin later confirmed, calling it a rare exception.
Note that this happened before I got involved, which validates something Mr. Turner told me: "I've found Evolve to be amazing, really great on both sides of the table, trying to keep owners happy and trying to keep renters happy."
Moments later, you called to tell me you had found some acceptable Evolve properties and convinced your family to gather for Thanksgiving 2024, if Evolve would be willing to extend your credit a few months. And they, true to Mr. Turner's assessment, said yes. So in a first for Tripped Up, we have a happy ending to a story where no one did anything wrong in the first place.
If you need advice about a best-laid travel plan that went awry, send an email to TrippedUp@nytimes.com.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Rentals; Vacations; Evacuations & rescues; Travel insurance

Business indexing term: Subject: Travel insurance

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: Vrbo; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/travel/tripped-up-vacation-rental-credit.html

Title: When a Wildfire Causes Cancellation:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 13, 2023

column: Tripped Up

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785990359

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-wildfire-causes-cancellation/docview/2785990359/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Help! I Canceled My Rental Because of a Wildfire. My Contract Says No Refund. Is That Fair?

Author: Kugel, Seth

Publication info: Kugel, Seth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/help-i-canceled-my-rental-because-wildfire/docview/2785970974/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Dear Tripped Up,
I booked a house on Lake Tahoe through Vrbo for my family to attend a wedding in September 2021. About two weeks before the wedding, we saw on the news that the Caldor wildfire had impacted the region, causing evacuations and blocked roads and filling the air with heavy smoke. Our group included young children, those with asthma and the elderly, for whom this environment would be a serious health risk. I canceled with Vrbo, but they would not refund me, offering me a credit toward a future rental through Evolve, the property manager, valid for two years. Evolve has significantly fewer listings than Vrbo, and I’ve been unable to find a satisfactory substitute anywhere on the California, Oregon or Washington coasts, for a visit with my son in Dillon, Colorado, or to see family near Boston. With the deadline approaching, I feel like I’m being forced into a vacation I don’t want to take in a place I don’t want to go, and I want a refund. Can you help? — Sally, Seattle
Dear Sally,
Most complaints that come in to Tripped Up are relatively straightforward cases of right and wrong. But yours — complete with multiple middlemen, reams of fine print and a natural disaster — has more to unpack than a warehouse of lost luggage. Before we begin, let’s remember that hundreds of families lost their homes in the Caldor fire, which burned more than 200,000 acres in the area from August to October 2021. (No one died, but two civilians and several firefighters were injured.)
Now, let’s start by introducing the ensemble cast. You, Sally, are the Renter. Playing Middleman #1, we have Vrbo, the site where you made your reservation. Middleman #2 is Evolve, the nationwide property management company. And giving an underappreciated performance as Actual Owners are Doug and Michelle Turner. A bit part is played by Generali Global Assistance, the provider of the insurance policy you could have purchased through Vrbo but did not. Airbnb makes a cameo appearance in a nonspeaking role.
The curtain rises in late August. You and your family were eagerly awaiting your trip — planned for Sept. 15-20, 2021 — but the Caldor fire was spreading quickly, edging closer to Tahoe. On Aug. 30, a swath of the lake’s southern and southwestern shoreline was evacuated, up to Tahoma, about a 25-minute drive south of your rental. On Sept. 1, President Joe Biden declared a federal emergency. You monitored the situation, and then, on Sept. 7, you wrote to Vrbo to request a cancellation.
Alas, the response came quickly: “Your booking no longer qualifies for a refund,” Vrbo wrote, noting that they were merely following the host’s policy: cancellations accepted up to two weeks before check-in. I read just about every related policy — Vrbo’s and Evolve’s rental agreements, as well as Evolve’s agreement with hosts — and they are right. The rental policy very clearly states that “no refunds will be due in the event your stay at the Vacation Rental becomes impossible for a reason outside Evolve’s or Host’s control, including natural disasters, fire, epidemic, pandemic, federal, state, or local quarantine, civil commotion, changes in laws or regulations, evacuation orders, or other acts of government agencies.”
If you had only canceled when you heard about the evacuation, or even on the day Biden declared the fire a federal disaster (exactly two weeks before your stay), you would have gotten your money back in full.
So why did you even get a credit? Evolve’s policy goes on to say that in extenuating circumstances like natural disasters, “Evolve may choose, in its sole discretion and as your sole remedy, to issue a travel credit of the amounts paid to Evolve as an act of goodwill.”
That is what they did, giving you two years — until this coming September — to book a property. (Essentially, this gives you until September 2024, since you can make a reservation a year out.) I did search Evolve’s listings using your criteria and found a few places I thought might work, but you made reasonable arguments against them. Evolve said they have plenty of good properties available, over 25,000 across the country, although coverage is spottier in some regions than others. Had your credit been with Vrbo, which has more than 2 million properties, you would have found something easily.
Alas, Vrbo was just the middleman to the middleman here, and your money had long since been passed to Evolve, with the exception of Vrbo’s fee of $242. And as Trisha McDonell, a Vrbo spokesperson, told me and you confirmed, Vrbo long ago returned that chunk of money to you.
It is worth noting that the Turners’ house is also listed on Airbnb, as are all Evolve properties. During the Caldor fire, Airbnb activated its Extenuating Circumstances policy, which “takes precedence over the reservation’s cancellation policy,” and allowed for refunds or credit for certain reservations during the Caldor fire. Or so they told the news site SFGATE at the time — they did not respond when I asked them for comment.
Their policy might not have applied to your rental, since the house was not in the evacuation zone. But if it had applied — presumably in the form of a credit — that would have been far easier to use than Evolve’s credit, given Airbnb’s 6 million listings.
But let’s look at the larger issue: Should you be forced to take a vacation adjacent to a forest fire? And if you, understandably, don’t want to, who should pay the price in cases of force majeure? Renters like you? One of the Middlemen? The Actual Owners? I suppose some would argue that the big corporations should pay and the sympathetic travelers should be made whole, but what if the Turners had been renting the place out themselves, instead of going through Evolve? Should they have to return your money even though you signed an agreement saying they wouldn’t have to?
Because hotels often have more generous refund policies, allowing you to cancel 24 to 48 hours before your trip, they are generally a less risky choice than vacation rentals. But not always, especially if you get a discount for making a nonrefundable reservation.
Wait, what is that voice offstage? Why, it is travel insurance — potentially our hero, but in reality, just a bit player, because you declined Vrbo’s insurance. Generali’s policy would have covered you if you had been staying in an evacuation zone, and, according to Patrick Turner, a company spokesperson, it’s possible that if you had been able to document why you couldn’t go — say, an email from the local government urging you not to come, or a letter from a doctor saying it would be too dangerous for your family, then it might have covered your situation. It’s impossible to say, but although I’m generally not a fan of travel insurance except for medical coverage and cruises, I might have to add vacation rentals to the list.
One final element was bugging me here: Where is your money, right now? Julia Marvin, an Evolve spokesperson, told me that your money, around $2,240, is still with Evolve, awaiting your use of the credit. I wondered what would happen if you didn’t use the credit, would Evolve get to keep it all? What about the Turners, our Actual Owners?
So, I got in touch with them. Over Zoom, Doug Turner told me that he had received $1,887.60 for your rental. So it looks like Evolve had both paid the homeowner and was willing to take a loss if you use your credit, something Marvin later confirmed, calling it a rare exception.
This happened before I got involved, which validates something Doug Turner told me: “I’ve found Evolve to be amazing, really great on both sides of the table, trying to keep owners happy and trying to keep renters happy.”
Moments later, you called to tell me you had found some acceptable Evolve properties and persuaded your family to gather for Thanksgiving 2024, if Evolve would be willing to extend your credit a few months. And they, true to Doug Turner’s assessment, said yes. So in a first for Tripped Up, we have a happy ending to a story where no one did anything wrong in the first place. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Rentals; Evacuations & rescues; Vacations; Travel insurance

Business indexing term: Subject: Travel insurance

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: Vrbo; NAICS: 561599

Identifier / keyword: Travel; Kugel, Seth; Oregon; Colorado; Lake Tahoe (Nev); California; Caldor Inc; Washington (State); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Seattle (Wash); Airbnb; VrboCom; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Real Estate (Commercial); Insurance; Quarantines; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Rebates And Refunds; Books And Literature; Civilian Casualties; Disasters And Emergencies; Happiness; Fires And Firefighters; Hotels And Travel Lodgings; Wildfires

Title: Help! I Canceled My Rental Because of a Wildfire. My Contract Says No Refund. Is That Fair?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-12 @ 19:49

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785970974

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/help-i-canceled-my-rental-because-wildfire/docview/2785970974/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Rain Eases in California, but the Damage Endures: [National Desk]

Author: Hinojos, Viviana; Hassan, Adeel; Jolly, Vik

Publication info: Hinojos, Viviana; Hassan, Adeel; Jolly, Vik. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rain-eases-california-damage-endures/docview/2785847583/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: While the storm slowed on Saturday, flooded rivers forced some residents to evacuate, while others surveyed the destruction that was left behind.
SPRINGVILLE, Calif. -- Cassandra Honeyman spent Saturday helping salvage what she could from her aunt's home. Ruined furniture sat on the back patio, and mud covered the interior of the one-story country house in Springville, a rural community of 1,100 in the Sierra Nevada foothills that is surrounded by green mountains and the Tule River in the San Joaquin Valley.
Thankfully, said Ms. Honeyman, who lives nearby, most of the pictures in the house were protected; they were placed in totes on top of a bed before the flood arrived. But not much else was saved. She was grateful that her aunt and other relatives who lived in Springville were safe. But, exhausted and shaken, Ms. Honeyman acknowledged that uncertain days lay ahead.
"This house is completely totaled," she said.
The storm system carrying streams of moisture through the skies over California weakened on Saturday, bringing lighter rain. But in areas like Springville in the San Joaquin Valley, and in towns on the Central Coast, residents and officials were only beginning to deal with the impact of flooded rivers and creeks, while other parts of the state that saw a respite braced for yet another storm next week.
Springville residents were evacuated on Friday, and some residents like Ms. Honeyman returned on Saturday to assess the damage. In coastal Monterey County, between San Francisco and Los Angeles, more than 1,500 people were ordered to evacuate early Saturday from Pajaro, a small agricultural community of 1,700, after the Pajaro River's levee was breached by flooding at about midnight.
Luis Alejo, the chair of the Monterey County Board of Supervisors, said on Twitter that "the worst case scenario has arrived," noting that the damage would take months to repair.
Emergency crews rescued more than 50 people near the river on Friday night and Saturday, with support from soldiers from the California National Guard.
The destruction reached as far south as Ventura County, just northwest of Los Angeles, where flooding closed off the Pacific Coast Highway.
Flash flood warnings were in effect on Saturday for other parts of Monterey County, as well as sections of Santa Cruz, Santa Clara, Tulare and Sonoma Counties. But raging waters were already deluging some highways, farmland and rural communities.
More than 37,000 homes and businesses in the state were without power on Saturday afternoon, with more than 28,000 of those in Monterey County, according to PowerOutage.us.
Gov. Gavin Newsom has declared 34 of California's 58 counties to be in states of emergency. Since the storm system moved in on Thursday afternoon, eight to nine inches of rain have fallen in the higher elevations of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, the National Weather Service said.
In parts of the state that escaped the brunt of the storm, some residents were still trying to get back to their normal lives.
In San Bernardino County, east of Los Angeles, where many residents in the mountains had been trapped in their homes for more than a week by snowdrifts up to 12 feet high, some people went about their business on Saturday as officials reported that all county-maintained roads -- totaling 516 miles -- had been serviced, with crews working on creating second lanes.
A public information officer for the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department said that no new deaths had been reported and that no coroner's findings had been released. The San Bernardino Sheriff's Office said on Thursday there have been 13 deaths during the storm, but it had determined so far that only one was directly linked to it.
About 3,000 students of the Rim of the World Unified School District, which serves 17 communities in the San Bernardino Mountains, have not been in class for two weeks because of the weather, but the district superintendent, Kimberly Fricker, said on Saturday that she was hopeful that they would be able to return by Thursday or Friday.
Before then, however, more waves of precipitation are on the way. Another atmospheric river -- a storm named for its long, narrow shape and the immense amount of water it carries -- is forecast for Monday afternoon and is expected to last about 24 hours, leaving inadequate time for the ground and the river system to sponge up all the water before getting soaked again. The storm will bring more heavy rain, with heavy snow likely in the Sierra Nevada. Meteorologists say this will be the 11th atmospheric river in California this winter.
"It's not a reprieve," Jerald Meadows, the meteorologist in charge of the San Joaquin Valley Office of the National Weather Service, said of the interim. "It could give a false sense of security."
Still, many residents are determined to recover. Ms. Honeyman, who has lived in Springville for 30 years, said that her aunt, who declined to be interviewed, and her family would be staying at an Airbnb until they could begin to rebuild. And, despite the destruction she witnessed, she said that leaving Springville was not a consideration.
"I grew up here, I moved here in first grade," she said. "This is home, and I love living the country life up here. Unfortunately, this is stuff that happens when you live in a rural area."
Everyone made it out alive, and no one was hurt, she added.
"Everything else can be replaced," she said.
In Arrowbear Lake, an unincorporated community in the San Bernardino Mountains, Marty Vrolyks, 71, also had a positive outlook.
Mr. Vrolyks, a retired grocery warehouse worker who has lived in Arrowbear Lake for nearly 27 years, said the storm had helped renew a sense of community among residents. Neighbors were helping neighbors, and Mr. Vrolyks said the storm had helped him put names to faces that he had seen only in passing.
On Saturday, he said he was planning to check on some of his neighbors, including a diabetic man whom he had delivered insulin to about a week ago.
"From this point on, it's going to be a whole different story," Mr. Vrolyks said. "You want to know who your neighbors are and exchange phone numbers. You really become tight-knit in this kind of environment."
John Keefe contributed reporting.
John Keefe contributed reporting.
Photograph More than 1,500 people were ordered to evacuate from Pajaro, a small area in Watsonville, Calif., after a levee was breached. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH EDELSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: Houses; Creeks & streams; School superintendents; Floods; Roads & highways; Storms; Rural areas; Rain

Location: San Bernardino County California; United States--US; San Joaquin Valley; California; Nevada; Los Angeles California; Monterey County California; San Bernardino Mountains

Company / organization: Name: National Weather Service-US; NAICS: 924120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/11/us/california-storm-rain-flood-monterey.html

Title: Rain Eases in California, but the Damage Endures:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847583

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rain-eases-california-damage-endures/docview/2785847583/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As the Rains Ease in California, Many See the Damage Rise

Author: Hinojos, Viviana; Hassan, Adeel; Jolly, Vik

Publication info: Hinojos, Viviana; Hassan, Adeel; Jolly, Vik. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-rains-ease-california-many-see-damage-rise/docview/2785843409/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SPRINGVILLE, Calif. — Cassandra Honeyman spent Saturday helping salvage what she could from her aunt’s home. Ruined furniture sat on the back patio, and mud covered the interior of the one-story country house in Springville, a rural community of 1,100 in the Sierra Nevada foothills that is surrounded by green mountains and the Tule River in the San Joaquin Valley.
Thankfully, said Honeyman, who lives nearby, most of the pictures in the house were protected; they were placed in totes on top of a bed before the flood arrived. But not much else was saved. She was grateful that her aunt and other relatives who lived in Springville were safe. But, exhausted and shaken, Honeyman acknowledged that uncertain days lay ahead.
“This house is completely totaled,” she said.
The storm system carrying streams of moisture through the skies over California weakened Saturday, bringing lighter rain. But in areas such as Springville in the San Joaquin Valley, and in towns on the Central Coast, residents and officials were only beginning to deal with the impact of flooded rivers and creeks, while other parts of the state that saw a respite braced for yet another storm next week.
Springville residents were evacuated Friday, and some, including Honeyman, returned Saturday to assess the damage. In coastal Monterey County, between San Francisco and Los Angeles, more than 1,500 people were ordered to evacuate early Saturday from Pajaro, a small agricultural community of 1,700, after the Pajaro River’s levee was breached by flooding about midnight.
Luis Alejo, chair of the Monterey County Board of Supervisors, said on Twitter that “the worst case scenario has arrived,” noting that the damage would take months to repair.
Emergency crews rescued more than 50 people near the river Friday night and Saturday, with support from soldiers from the California National Guard.
The destruction reached as far south as Ventura County, just northwest of Los Angeles, where flooding closed off the Pacific Coast Highway.
Flash flood warnings were in effect Saturday for other parts of Monterey County, as well as sections of Santa Cruz, Santa Clara, Tulare and Sonoma counties. But raging waters were already deluging some highways, farmland and rural communities.
More than 37,000 homes and businesses in the state were without power Saturday afternoon, with more than 28,000 of those in Monterey County, according to PowerOutage.us.
Gov. Gavin Newsom has declared 34 of California’s 58 counties to be in states of emergency. Since the storm system moved in Thursday afternoon, 8 to 9 inches of rain have fallen in the higher elevations of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, the National Weather Service said.
In parts of the state that escaped the brunt of the storm, some residents were still trying to get back to their normal lives.
In San Bernardino County, east of Los Angeles, where many residents in the mountains had been trapped in their homes for more than a week by snowdrifts up to 12 feet high, some people went about their business Saturday as officials reported that all county-maintained roads — totaling 516 miles — had been serviced, with crews working on creating second lanes.
A public information officer for the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department said that no new deaths had been reported and that no coroner’s findings had been released. The San Bernardino Sheriff’s Office said Thursday that there have been 13 deaths during the storm, but it had determined so far that only one was directly linked to it.
About 3,000 students of the Rim of the World Unified School District, which serves 17 communities in the San Bernardino Mountains, have not been in class for two weeks because of the weather, but the district superintendent, Kimberly Fricker, said Saturday that she was hopeful that they would be able to return by Thursday or Friday.
Before then, however, more waves of precipitation are on the way. Another atmospheric river — a storm named for its long, narrow shape and the immense amount of water it carries — is forecast for Monday afternoon and is expected to last about 24 hours, leaving inadequate time for the ground and the river system to sponge up all the water before getting soaked again. The storm will bring more heavy rain, with heavy snow likely in the Sierra Nevada. Meteorologists say this will be the 11th atmospheric river in California this winter.
“It’s not a reprieve,” Jerald Meadows, meteorologist in charge of the San Joaquin Valley Office of the National Weather Service, said of the interim. “It could give a false sense of security.”
Still, many residents are determined to recover. Honeyman, who has lived in Springville for 30 years, said her aunt, who declined to be interviewed, and her family would be staying at an Airbnb until they could begin to rebuild. And, despite the destruction she witnessed, she said leaving Springville was not a consideration.
“I grew up here, I moved here in first grade,” she said. “This is home, and I love living the country life up here. Unfortunately, this is stuff that happens when you live in a rural area.”
Everyone made it out alive, and no one was hurt, she added.
“Everything else can be replaced,” she said.
In Arrowbear Lake, an unincorporated community in the San Bernardino Mountains, Marty Vrolyks, 71, also had a positive outlook.
Vrolyks, a retired grocery warehouse worker who has lived in Arrowbear Lake for nearly 27 years, said the storm had helped renew a sense of community among residents. Neighbors were helping neighbors, and Vrolyks said the storm had helped him put names to faces that he had seen only in passing.
On Saturday, he said he was planning to check on some of his neighbors, including a man with diabetes to whom he had delivered insulin about a week ago.
“From this point on, it’s going to be a whole different story,” Vrolyks said. “You want to know who your neighbors are and exchange phone numbers. You really become tight-knit in this kind of environment.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Houses; Creeks & streams; School superintendents; Floods; Roads & highways; Storms; Rural areas; Rain

Location: San Bernardino County California; New York; United States--US; San Joaquin Valley; California; Los Angeles California; Nevada; Monterey County California; San Bernardino Mountains

Company / organization: Name: National Weather Service-US; NAICS: 924120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Airbnb; National Guard; Twitter; San Francisco (Calif); Newsom, Gavin; San Francisco Board Of Supervisors; Lake County (Calif); San Bernardino County (Calif); Tulare (Calif); Santa Cruz (Calif); San Bernardino (Calif); Los Angeles (Calif); Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department; Sierra Nevada Region (Us); Monterey (Calif); Nevada; San Joaquin Valley (Calif); Ventura County (Calif); Highway 1 (Calif); Santa Clara (Calif); California; Weather; Levees And Dams; Evacuations And Evacuees; Agriculture And Farming; Rivers; Snow And Snowstorms; Education (K 12); Rescues; Names, Geographical; Accidents And Safety; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Power Failures And Blackouts; Rural Areas; Diabetes; Floods

Title: As the Rains Ease in California, Many See the Damage Rise

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-12 @ 00:51

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785843409

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-rains-ease-california-many-see-damage-rise/docview/2785843409/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Making an Exception to a Dating Rule: [Society Desk]

Author: Spencer, Robbie

Publication info: Spencer, Robbie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-exception-dating-rule/docview/2782596607/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After their initial meeting, Brett Lynch was so smitten with Beverly Pham that he didn't mind making a four-hour drive to see her again.
Beverly Bảo Ngọc Pham and Brett Andrew Lynch did not expect their engagement to go viral on social media. Alas, that's what happened when they posted their traditional Vietnamese engagement ceremony, which included a procession of their families, an exchange of gifts, permission from their families and an ancestral prayer.
Also following tradition, Ms. Pham's mother, Lan Phuong Pham, and future mother-in-law, Gwendolyn Lynch, showered the bride with jewelry for her upcoming nuptials and Mr. Lynch gave Ms. Pham her engagement ring. The couple then served ceremonial tea to their parents.
"I come from a family of Vietnamese refugees who immigrated to America after the Vietnam War," said Ms. Pham, 26, whose middle name means "precious gem" in Vietnamese.
The couple met in March 2021 in Palm Springs, Calif., where Ms. Pham was on vacation with a friend. Mr. Lynch, 30, is a first lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps. He was on assignment in Twentynine Palms, Calif., when his brother, who knew Ms. Pham's friend, was invited to meet them for a night on the town.
"I'm pretty sure the first thing I said was, 'I don't date Marines,"' Ms. Pham recalled, laughing.
Ms. Pham graduated with a degree in broadcast and digital journalism from the University of Southern California and now works as an editorial designer for Fox Sports. She grew up in Westminster, Calif.
Mr. Lynch graduated from the University of San Diego with a degree in economics. He began his career in television before deciding to join the Marine Corps at age 27, inspired by his father who served in the Navy. He grew up in Lewisburg, Pa.
Mr. Lynch recalled being quickly enamored with Ms. Pham.
"Just talking with her that first night, everything was so effortless," he said. "I knew I wanted to at least take her on a date."
It was on that night that Mr. Lynch suggested that he make the nearly four-hour drive the following weekend to Los Angeles, where Ms. Pham lived, to take her out on a proper first date.
"I couldn't believe he wanted to make that drive," she said.
He said he would be there at 5 p.m. "And like a good Marine, I was there at 5."
Mr. Lynch said that "as any Marine would tell you," leaving the base for the weekend is a treat. Even if it was for an eight-hour round-trip drive.
That night, they dined on sushi at Sugarfish in Manhattan Beach. "We talked the whole time, and made it clear that we were looking for something serious," Mr. Lynch said. "It was nice that we were on the same page," Ms. Pham said.
As they grew closer over the next month, Mr. Lynch shared that he was only stationed in California until April. He would soon be headed back to Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point in Havelock, N.C.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
They spent a week in what Ms. Pham described as "relationship purgatory." And then during his final week in California, she surprised him with an outdoor dining experience at 71Above at the top of U.S. Bank Tower in Los Angeles.
"We had a great final date, and together we decided to go for it," she said.
"We were really able to start building our lives together," Mr. Lynch said. He closed on a home in North Carolina around when he met Ms. Pham, so they had a comfortable place to get to know each other. "We were seriously dating from the beginning and knew we wanted to be married eventually."
After a year of dating, Mr. Lynch flew to California in March 2022 after secretly asking Ms. Pham's parents for their blessing.
"When she makes comments about things she likes, I write it down in my phone," Mr. Lynch said. "I reserved an Airbnb sailboat experience she talked about in Newport Beach for the occasion."
"I maybe got my nails done, just in case," Ms. Pham recalled.
Mr. Lynch surprised Ms. Pham by instead taking her out to a marina where they embarked on a sunset sailboat cruise featuring champagne and sushi. Mr. Lynch popped the question.
The couple were married on Feb. 19 by the Rev. Randy Craft, the campus pastor at the Newport Mesa campus of the Saddleback Church, at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, Calif.
"I always knew I wanted to incorporate my culture into my marriage journey," said Ms. Pham, who wore a pair of custom-embroidered ivory tulle gloves that featured script font across the top that read "Trăm Năm Hạnh Phúc," a traditional Vietnamese wedding greeting that means "100 years of happiness."
Photograph Beverly Pham, Brett Lynch (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENZ GONZAGA PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST16.

Location: California; Los Angeles California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/03/style/beverly-pham-brett-lynch-wedding.html

Title: Making an Exception to a Dating Rule:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 5, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2782596607

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-exception-dating-rule/docview/2782596607/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Free Beer a Few Days a Week: Figuring Out the Hybrid Office: [National Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma; Swift, Hilary

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma; Swift, Hilary. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/free-beer-few-days-week-figuring-out-hybrid/docview/2781441359/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hybrid work has been choose-your-own-adventure, but now C.E.O.s are making their choices more permanent.
The freight elevator doors opened onto 50,000 square feet of office real estate. Right now, it is empty, but Seth Besmertnik, chief executive of the software company Conductor, gestured at the beams and concrete floor with pride. He has plans for his company's new office -- conference rooms, a pickleball court and, of course, all of his 200 employees in the New York City area.
Mr. Besmertnik conceded that it was scary to persuade his board to sign a lease doubling his office real estate in 2021. But to him, leasing a larger office was a symbol of his belief in physical, in-person collaboration.
"As much as it might be nice to save the money, I want to save our soul first," he said, with the zeal that often inflects conversations about in-person work nearly three years into the pandemic. "I want to do the right thing for the company in the long term."
For many companies, though, signing the lease for an office is just the first step. Next, executives have to persuade their workers to fill it. Conductor has relied on both carrots ("Cold brew? Beer?" Mr. Besmertnik offered, jokingly, at 10:15 a.m.) and sticks (employees are required to come in three days a week). And like most other companies, it is still experimenting.
"I'm considering going to four days," Mr. Besmertnik said. "We definitely won't go to five. And might just stay at three."
Business leaders are in a phase of trial and error that comes with staggering stakes. They are figuring out how many days to call employees back to the office, and on top of that how strictly to enforce their own rules. While some companies are in five days a week and others have gone remote forever, many more employers have landed on a hybrid solution, and as they announce these plans they are facing fierce resistance. Amazon recently told its corporate workers to return to the office at least three days a week starting in May and faced an outcry on Slack, its employee messaging system, and Starbucks asked for three days from its 3,750 corporate employees, prompting an open letter of protest.
"I prefer to work from home," said Eric Deshawn Lerma, 26, an executive assistant at Amazon who is part of a more than 29,000-person Slack channel at the company called "Remote Advocacy." "To have that choice stripped from me based on purely speculative observations does not sit right with me."
Offices reached a crucial benchmark at the start of this year: They're at half their prepandemic occupancy. Just over half of workers who can do their jobs from home are now combining remote and in-person work, according to Gallup. A closer look at New York, from the Partnership for New York City, found that 82 percent of Manhattan office employers surveyed in late January were maintaining or adopting hybrid policies in 2023. So the corporate experts -- McKinsey, Mercer, PwC -- have consulted their crystal balls and declared: The future is hybrid.
Hybrid looks vastly different across every office. If the future is hybrid, to many executives that means the future is choose-your-own-adventure. But now the emphasis is shifting from adventure to choice. Executives are making return-to-office plans with more permanence, communicating requirements more clearly after months of hesitation and mushy expectations, though what their plans look like vary widely.
"There's not a Hybrid Office 101, where you can pick up the book and see what 100 offices have done before," said Richard Buery, chief executive of the Robin Hood Foundation, which requires employees to come in two days a week.
When Amazon's chief executive, Andy Jassy, told employees to return to the office three days a week, he cited the need for more "face-to-face" and "serendipitous interactions." Previously, team directors each set remote work expectations. In response to the policy change, employees rebelled, drafting petitions and starting the "Remote Advocacy" Slack channel, where they argued that returning to the office would make child care more difficult, and exchanged concerns about their badge data being tracked. One Slack message, viewed by The New York Times, read: "I have not slept through the night since the announcement."
At Starbucks, which recently told corporate employees to come back to the office three days a week, more than 40 of them wrote an open letter in protest, saying: "Morale is at an all-time low, and the brand reputation and financial value of this publicly traded company are at risk."
At Conductor, which has required all employees within 90 minutes of an office to return three days a week, managers are ensuring that their teams adhere to the rules. Mr. Besmertnik believes that a lack of discipline, with hybrid work, leads to "self-fulfilling failure."
Orchard, a real estate company, gave its 500 employees an "open enrollment" period in which to decide whether they wanted to be remote or office workers. The 60 percent who selected the office are expected to come in two days a week.
The decisions that chief executives are making will have effects far beyond their own work spaces. Researchers estimate that office real estate values will plunge 39 percent from prepandemic levels in the coming years. Economists foretell a "doom loop" for urban commercial areas: With fewer people commuting to downtown neighborhoods, retail and services will suffer, prompting even fewer people to commute, spurring a drop in tax revenue that could further hurt downtown services such as public transportation.
Some companies have championed an office-free future -- especially Airbnb, which has benefited as ultra-remote workers move to far-flung cities.
"The cat's out of the bag," said Dave Stephenson, Airbnb's chief financial officer and head of employee experience. "For almost every C.F.O. that I've talked to who has had a policy of bringing people back to work, people are doing less than what they've been asked. If they've said they want to be back three days a week, they're getting them back two."
Fully remote work is simple enough to dictate, as is fully in person. Hybrid work often creates a conundrum. Employees say the primary motivation for them to commute into the office is the guarantee of seeing teammates. That demands coordination, with everybody coming in on the same day. But rigid policies often spark greater backlash.
"Well-organized hybrid is the best of all," said Nick Bloom, an economist and remote work expert at Stanford. "The problem is that organizing it requires managers to have discipline."
Wall Street's leaders have been clear that work arrangements are not up for popular debate. James Gorman, chief executive of Morgan Stanley, whose employees are mostly in the office three or more days a week, said this year that remote work was "not an employee choice."
Other chief executives have been less firm. They understand that their workers save time and money by staying home, and they want to earn the commutes by making the office enticing.
At Orchard, the real estate company, that meant employees were greeted on a recent Wednesday with the rumble of a bar cart rolling past their desks, as the head of facilities played a Chumbawamba classic -- "I get knocked down, but I get up again" -- while offering beverages from an ice bucket filled with Six Point I.P.A.s, Modelos and sauvignon blanc. The bar cart had a photo of Jimmy Buffett with the caption, "It's 5 o'clock somewhere." In New York, it was 4:54.
Court Cunningham, the company's chief executive, declined to drink because he said he was heading to the gym, and couldn't combine burpees and beer. But he emphasized that rituals like happy hour ensured that the office was a space where employees wanted to spend their time, so managers didn't have to serve as hall monitors.
"It's hard to make it work, but when you do, it's magical," said Lorraine Buhannic, Orchard's chief people officer.
In Orchard's magic, there's some randomness: "We basically rolled the dice and said let's make it two days a week," Ms. Buhannic said, adding that the decision was also partly based on employee survey responses.
Business leaders realize, though, that their roll-the-dice decisions are shaping the way their employees approach work -- how people are generating ideas, and balancing lives and careers. And streams of research are emerging about the effects of remote work on both.
A study in Nature last year found that communicating virtually can inhibit creativity. Another study from researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology found that with the onset of remote work, the formation of what sociologists call "weak ties" -- measured in terms of emails between people with mutual contacts -- declined 38 percent. But then there's the immense stress relief that some workers have experienced with remote work. Parents have found that it enables them to better balance professional duties with child care. Employees of color say it reduces microaggressions and cliques.
The best hybrid arrangements promise to combine the values that all sides want: the creativity of in-person collaboration, the ease and fluidity of working from home. Some executives remain hopeful they can strike that balance.
Mr. Cunningham recalled the early years of his career, when his teammates at an investment bank were expected to be in the office until late at night. He recalled one colleague carrying in a cardboard box, telling the team that he had to mail something, then using the box to sneak out his jacket so he could finally go home. Those expectations of needless face time have now largely dissipated. (Maybe now that box could be used to sneak home extra beers.)
Back at Conductor, Mr. Besmertnik watched his office start to buzz as the head of internal communications, Dani Weiss, blasted music, grabbed a microphone and called everyone together for an all-staff meeting. Employees in New York, scattered around the open office, swiveled their chairs to face her, while screens beamed in the faces of workers in San Francisco, Berlin and Kyiv, Ukraine.
"When you're joining an all company meeting on Zoom, from home, it doesn't feel like this," Mr. Besmertnik said. "Right?"
"Come on, everybody!" Ms. Weiss shouted. "I don't see butts in those chairs."
Moments later, there they were.
Photograph The software company Conductor's office in Manhattan, where employees are required to come in three days a week for now.; Perks at Conductor include free beer and Foosball. Like many companies, it is still experimenting with its hybrid schedule.; A money booth used to reward employees for high performance. The company's new office will also include a pickleball court. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Hybrid work; Commuting; Employees; Work at home; Corporate culture; Offices; Professionals; Trends; Perquisites

Business indexing term: Subject: Hybrid work Employees Work at home Corporate culture Professionals Perquisites

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.c om/2023/03/02/business/hybrid-work-from-home-office.html

Title: Free Beer a Few Days a Week: Figuring Out the Hybrid Office:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2781441359

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/free-beer-few-days-week-figuring-out-hybrid/docview/2781441359/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hopes for Resilient Economy Buoy Markets: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hopes-resilient-economy-buoy-markets/docview/2776904137/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Stocks ticked higher on Wall Street Wednesday as hopes for a resilient economy jousted with worries about inflation following a much stronger reading than expected on U.S. retail sales.
The S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent after swinging from early losses to gains through the day. The Dow Jones industrial average edged up by 38 points, or 0.1 percent, while the Nasdaq composite rose a more forceful 0.9 percent.
Sales at U.S. retailers jumped by more last month than expected, even as shoppers contended with higher interest rates on credit cards and other loans. The surprising strength offers hope that the most important part of the U.S. economy, consumer spending, can stay afloat despite worries about a possible recession looming. It's the latest piece of data to show the economy remains more resilient than feared.
At the same time, the strong buying potentially adds more fuel to inflation, which a report earlier this week showed is cooling by less than expected. Upward pressure on inflation could force the Federal Reserve to stay more aggressive in keeping interest rates high.
High rates can drive down inflation, but they also drag on investment prices and raise the risk of a painful recession.
"Will it lead to that traditional recession or a shallow recession, or will we power through it and have more strong growth with still-high rates?" asked Tom Hainlin, national investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "That's still the unknown, which is how resilient can the consumer be in this higher for longer" rate environment.
"It seems like both consumers and corporate America came into this in pretty good shape and so far are holding out OK," he said.
The worries about higher rates and a firmer Fed have been most evident in the bond market, where yields on Treasurys have jumped since a report two Fridays ago showed the U.S. job market remains stronger than expected.
The yield on the two-year Treasury, which tends to track expectations for the Fed, briefly jumped toward 4.70 percent and its highest level since November after the retail sales report, up from less than 4.60 percent overnight and from 4.62 percent late Tuesday. It then eased back to 4.60 percent.
The 10-year yield, which helps set rates for mortgages and other important loans, rose to 3.81 percent from 3.75 percent late Tuesday.
Following Tuesday's data on inflation that was slightly hotter than expected, economists at Deutsche Bank raised their forecast for how high the Fed will take its key overnight interest rate. They now see it ultimately rising to 5.6 percent, up from their prior forecast of 5.1 percent.
The Fed has already pulled its overnight rate to a range of 4.50 percent to 4.75 percent, up from virtually zero a year ago.
The Deutsche Bank economists said they still expect a recession, but that the near-term strength in the economy could push its timing into the last three months of the year, later than they earlier thought.
Many other traders have also been raising their forecasts for how high the Fed will ultimately take interest rates. They've also sharply reduced bets for the Fed to cut rates late this year.
Even still, stocks are hanging on to healthy gains for the year despite recent rockiness. The S&P 500 is up 8 percent as strong data build hope that the economy may be able to avoid a recession. Or, if one hits, perhaps it may be only a short and shallow one.
On Wall Street, shares of Airbnb jumped 13.4 percent Wednesday after reporting stronger profit and revenue for its latest quarter than analysts expected.
On the losing end were stocks of energy producers, which fell 1.8 percent for the worst performance by far of the 11 sectors that make up the S&P 500. Devon Energy fell 10.5 percent after reporting weaker profit than expected.
Credit: By The Associated Press
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Dow Jones averages; Stocks; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Inflation; Interest rates; Profits; Recessions

Business indexing term: Subject: Stocks Federal Reserve monetary policy Inflation Interest rates Profits Recessions

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Deutsche Bank AG; NAICS: 522110, 551111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/15/business/16markets.html

Title: Hopes for Resilient Economy Buoy Markets:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2776904137

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hopes-resilient-economy-buoy-markets/docview/2776904137/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Charming Little Friend Returns to the Scene: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Gachman, Dina

Publication info: Gachman, Dina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/charming-little-friend-returns-scene/docview/2775871075/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Our inaugural list of picks include films about a shell dealing with loneliness, an adventure from the archives of Jim Henson and a singing crocodile.
'Marcel the Shell With Shoes On'
Rent or buy on these platforms.
If you're one of the millions of humans who were charmed by Marcel when he made his debut on YouTube 12 years ago, it's time to introduce your kids to this tiny talking seashell who wears pink shoes, has a pet ball of lint named Alan, and is now lonesome and living in an Airbnb with his Italian seashell grandmother, Nana Connie (voiced by Isabella Rossellini).
The Oscar nominated film features Jenny Slate, who co-writes and voices Marcel, and Dean Fleischer Camp, who co-writes, directs and stars onscreen with the stop-motion shells. In the film, Marcel and Nana Connie have been left alone in the Airbnb after a human couple prone to shouting matches splits up and leaves the house. When we meet the pair, their entire family and community of shells has mysteriously disappeared along with the humans. Nana has "lost a small piece of a very large puzzle," as Marcel puts it. She's in the later stages of dementia, and the two of them entertain themselves by gardening, playing games and watching their favorite show, "60 Minutes." Camp moves into the house after a breakup and befriends Marcel at a time when they're both feeling a little lost.
The movie is about grief, loneliness and the importance of connection, so it might prove to be a bit cerebral and sorrowful for some children, but it's definitely worth a try. After all, there are adorable talking shells, and they use hot dog buns as couches. If the kids won't sit still for the full 90 minutes, maybe show it to them in little increments, bite sized, like Marcel.
'Jim Henson's Turkey Hollow'
Stream it on Disney+.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Based on a forgotten treatment written by Jim Henson and Jerry Juhl in 1968, "Turkey Hollow" was directed by Kirk R. Thatcher, an Emmy winner and longtime Muppets director and producer. It originally aired on Lifetime in 2015, and Disney+ is bringing it back this month. Henson's family discovered the treatment, along with a box of puppets and some pitch materials, in his archives. The result is an updated version of the original vision -- minus Jim Henson, of course.
The story is about a newly divorced father (Jay Harrington) who takes his children, Tim and Annie, to spend Thanksgiving at his Aunt Cly's farm. Cly is played by Mary Steenburgen, who can elevate material with one syllable of her Southern drawl. Tim and Annie are frustrated by the lack of internet access on the remote farm -- a plot point that would have seemed positively futuristic back in 1968 -- so they head into the woods, where they discover hints that a giant monster called the Howling Hoodoo isn't just local legend. They start tracking the monster, with the help of some new buddies named Squonk, Zorp, Burble and Thring. Meanwhile, the adults are enmeshed in illegal turkey scams, mild flirtations and rural squabbles. Will "Turkey Hollow" go down in history as one of Henson's most brilliant creations? That's a hard no. But it should entertain older toddlers who don't mind a few mild monster scares or young children who may recognize some of the Muppet-ness of the creatures.
'Extinct'
Stream it on Netflix.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
If the history of the natural world had unfolded a little bit differently, Charles Darwin would have discovered some fluffy, talking, doughnut-shaped creatures called Flummels waddling around the Galápagos Islands. That's the premise of this 2021 animated musical tale. It's a film about extinction, time travel, courage and acceptance. It also features Terry Gross of "Fresh Air" as the voice of a ticking time bomb, a nod to any NPR-loving adults watching.
The main characters are Ed (voiced by Adam Devine) and Op (Rachel Bloom), Flummel siblings with very different approaches to life. Op is daring and tends to get into trouble; Ed is cautious and scared of pretty much everything. As the 150th Flummel Flower Festival approaches (complete with a Skrillex-looking Flummel D.J.), Op and Ed are cast out to a remote rock for causing trouble and forbidden from participating in the festival. When they try to redeem themselves by finding the island's most beautiful flower, they instead discover a vibrant bloom that causes them to time travel to modern-day Shanghai, where they meet a little white dog named Clarance (Ken Jeong).
The rest of the plot zigzags from Antarctica to Machu Picchu to the Great Wall and back again. There are musical numbers performed by a Triceratops, a Tasmanian tiger, a dodo and a Macrauchenia all singing cheeky lyrics about extinction like, "You can kill time here or time will kill you out there!" The plot is loopy, but it's tough to resist the charms of the voice cast, which includes Zazie Beetz, Catherine O'Hara, Reggie Watts and Henry Winkler.
'Hotel Transylvania: Transformania'
Stream it on Amazon Prime Video.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
"Hotel Transylvania: Transformania," the fourth installment in the series, opens with a party to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the hotel and the retirement of Drac (voiced by Brian Hull). There's raucous singing and Day-Glo monsters, but Drac is radiating bad vibes -- he is not handling the transition to retirement gracefully.
The plot kicks off when Drac decides not to leave the hotel to his daughter, Mavis (Selena Gomez), because it would also mean leaving it to his skater dude son-in-law, Johnny (Andy Samberg). Johnny convinces Van Helsing to use his monster ray to turn him into a dragon-like creature, in hopes that his new green, spiked physique will endear him to his father-in-law. Things go awry when the ray turns Drac into a bald, potbellied human. It's a clever twist, revealing that for some, a dad bod and age spots are more terrifying than fangs and blood lust.
Human Drac and monster Johnny set off for South America in search of a crystal hidden in a cave that can reverse the transformation. There's a sweet campfire scene where the two finally start to bond and Johnny gets deep about looking for the good in others, using a roasted marshmallow as his visual aid. Maybe it will inspire your child to think about optimism versus pessimism, or maybe it'll just make them want a s'more.
'Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile'
Stream it on Netflix.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The Academy Award winner Javier Bardem playing a singing, dancing showman, with an animated crocodile as his partner? That was enough to get my attention. Although it's not Bardem's finest film, it does make me wish he could have collaborated with Fellini on a movie or two. Small children may not care about any of that, though, so if you're looking for a silly, upbeat musical about a singing crocodile with stage fright (voiced by Shawn Mendes), stick around.
The live-action movie is based on the beloved book series by Bernard Waber. It tells the story of a boy named Josh who moves to New York with his parents (Scoot McNairy and Constance Wu), and discovers a large crocodile, the computer-generated Lyle, in the attic of his new home. Josh is a nervous child, and anyone who has moved to a new school or -- scarier still -- a new city, will likely relate to his worries and anxieties. Lyle helps Josh face his fears, and in turn he gets a buddy who defends him whenever humans say that crocodiles are dangerous.
Older kids might roll their eyes at the idea of a soft-shoeing animated reptile, but fans of the book series will probably be enchanted, as will children who love a good musical number that they can jump off the couch and dance to.
Photograph Clockwise from top: scenes from "Hotel Transylvania: Transformania"; "Marcel the Shell With Shoes On"; and "Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLUMBIA PICTURES AND SONY PICTURES ANIMATION/AMAZON; A24; COLUMBIA PICTURES/SONY PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Archives & records; Motion pictures; Books; Electronic book readers; Time travel

Location: Turkey

People: Henson, Jim

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/10/movies/kids-movies-streaming.html

Title: A Charming Little Friend Returns to the Scene:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 14, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775871075

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/charming-little-friend-returns-scene/docview/2775871075/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Visiting a Salmon Shangri-La in New Zealand: [Travel Desk]

Author: Downey, Tom

Publication info: Downey, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/visiting-salmon-shangri-la-new-zealand/docview/2772216767/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For my first night in New Zealand's South Island, I'd booked an Airbnb in Hawkesbury, a hamlet in the middle of the country's most important wine region, Marlborough, famous for the huge quantities of sauvignon blanc it produces. The single-lane dirt road to my lodging snaked past some rusty old vehicles in the middle of a working farm, dipped down into a valley, ascended and then circled a steep hill, finally revealing a small, perfect cabin nestled on a gentle slope. The only things visible from my home for the night were rolling hills blanketed in vivid green‌, backed by rocky mountains towering over them. ‌
New Zealand had just reopened to the world, and I was on a road trip. Unlike the American West, where a road trip usually means long, high-mileage days crossing vast distances, New Zealand's wild and rustic South Island offers comparable natural grandeur with much less driving. My night in Hawkesbury would be followed by a day at beachside Kaikoura; after a couple of nights in Christchurch, the largest city in the south, I'd journey to the highest mountain range in the land. My route, stretching 375 miles from the far north to the deep south, offered easy daily drives while also managing to cover everything from wine tasting to seal watching, shopping in cities to hiking on glaciers.
My ultimate destination was the Mt. Cook Alpine Salmon shop, on the shores of Lake Pukaki, in the Southern Alps. Several weeks before, a sushi chef in Sydney had served me some of the best salmon I'd ever had -- fresh and full of flavor. In a wistful tone, he told me that it had come from the Alpine Salmon shop. "It's the most beautiful place I've ever been. I've been dreaming about going back for all of Covid times," he said.
My primary route would be State Highway 1, a two-lane track that would take me all the way to Christchurch. ‌On my first day of serious driving, the road wound its way out of wine country and climbed over a set of mountain passes, and then, suddenly and surprisingly, the Pacific Ocean stretched before me. ‌The highway descended to the sea and I saw gray waves pounding the craggy coastline. My destination was Kaikoura, which means "eat crayfish" in the Maori language. Its main street was sleepy‌ -- a beach town hibernating in the off-season.
I followed the street to the‌ end, parked and walked along a footpath to the shore, site of Kaikoura's resident seal colony. On the jagged rocks before me, seals with coats so slick they looked as if they'd been recently oiled were squawking at one another and waddling to the water's edge.
I ate at the oldest pub in Kaikoura, the Pier Hotel, where the waitress poured me a pint of beer then came at me with numbers: "We have a 600-gram crayfish; we've got 800 grams. We have bigger ones for more people." I opted for 600 grams (about 1.3 pounds), and what came out was what North Americans would call a lobster, slightly different in appearance, but similar in taste.
That night I slept just outside Kaikoura at the Glenburn Coastal Retreat, made up of three large, comfortable, modern homes built on a bluff overlooking the ocean.
Riesling and resilience
As the road wound south toward Christchurch, wineries dominated the green, rolling hills of the Waipara Valley, one of New Zealand's newest wine regions. Waipara first saw vineyards planted in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but started to flourish as a commercial winemaking region only in the past decade.
My lunch destination was Black Estate, which had been recommended to me by a retired winemaker, Guy Porter, of Bellbird Spring wines. A striking, dark-colored longhouse, modeled on local farming structures, contained the estate's tasting room, living quarters and restaurant, with simple wooden tables overlooking ‌the biodynamically farmed vineyards. I ate a superb mussels escabeche, in which the shellfish had been slightly pickled to complement its briny essence, washed down with a bone-dry riesling.
That night I made it to Christchurch, most famous in recent times for a devastating earthquake that struck in 2011, killing 185 people and leaving a large part of the city uninhabitable. The next morning, I made my way to the Transitional Cathedral, designed by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban. It is also known as the Cardboard Cathedral because of the way Mr. Ban used that ‌material to construct ‌an interim structure after the city's original Anglican cathedral was rendered unsafe by the earthquake. Nine years after it was built, his cardboard structure still functions as the city's Anglican cathedral; the original stone structure is set to reopen in 2027 after extensive renovations.
Inside, I talked to a tour guide who walked me around the A-frame building, explaining the construction as we looked back from the altar toward colorful stained-glass windows that ascended from the entrance to the apex of the roof. The bones of the building were long cardboard rods, sheathed in waterproof, flame-retardant material so they could last for decades.
Our conversation shifted from the earthquake and its aftermath to a more recent Christchurch tragedy, the 2019 mass shootings at two local mosques, which killed 51 ‌worshipers. "The day after those shootings, our bishop said to me, 'Maybe we should close for safety,"' the guide said. "But we had to stay open. That day we had Muslims, Christians, everyone come here to talk, to cry, to hug, to come together. Ever since the earthquake, this building has been central to Christchurch."
Chef, waiter, forager, farmer
Lyttelton, a coastal town outside the city, is home to a restaurant called Mapu, which came recommended by the owner of La Fuente, my favorite wine bar in Auckland. The next night, Mapu's chef, Giulio Sturla, ushered me into one of the smallest restaurant spaces I'd ever seen, less than 400 square feet for both the kitchen and a six-seat dining counter. I sat next to two other diners and scanned the room, searching for the waiter, the bartender‌ ‌or the maître d'. ‌ ‌
Mr. Sturla spied me looking around and explained that he did everything at this restaurant himself: Not only was he sommelier, prep cook‌ and sous chef; he was also forager and farmer, with nearby plots that supplied much of the ‌restaurant's produce. He serves just one seating a night.
"When you only serve six people a night, then you can grow a lot more of the food you serve," he said. "And you can do everything exactly the way you want."
The nine-course meal was not just dinner; it was a conversation, a demonstration‌‌ and unlike any other restaurant experience I'd ever had. Mapu is not only tiny, but also supremely interactive, constantly changing and intensely creative. ‌ ‌
Before serving the fifth course, a plate of fire-roasted eggplant with black garlic and shallot sauce, puréed Jerusalem artichokes blended into homemade buttermilk and a bright green thyme oil topped with walnuts, Mr. Sturla demonstrated how he hand-peels the membranes from each individual walnut kernel in order to get a less bitter flavor. (It takes him about half an hour per kernel.)
Mr. Sturla originally ran a much bigger, award-winning restaurant next door, for which the Mapu space had been the test kitchen. "I wanted to return to doing what I love‌‌ -- being a chef," he said, "and stop having to be a manager, a businessman, a marketer."
This possibility of making a restaurant so small scale, so connected to the sea and the land, and so personal, all during the pandemic, seemed hard to imagine in any place other than New Zealand. The country was among the most isolated nations on Earth during the Covid outbreak, almost completely cut off from the rest of the world for two years.
Because of its isolation, New Zealand was able to stay out of lockdown for long stretches of the pandemic. Businesses like Mr. Sturla's, with an intimate, indoor space, were able to start up, grow and flourish here, even in the face of Covid. To me there was something distinctively Kiwi about the intimacy of his place.
Climbing to nirvana
For the final leg of my journey, I carefully scanned the weather reports, since I had to cross a high mountain pass that closes frequently because of snow. The morning promised a clear sky, bright sun and little precipitation, so I hit the road early for the three-hour drive to the‌ Mt. Cook Alpine Salmon shop, the end of my pilgrimage.
The highest-altitude salmon farm in the world, Alpine Salmon features fast-flowing water infused with oxygen, which it says ensures that the fish are well exercised and need no vaccines, pesticides or antibiotics and minimal human intervention to thrive.
After a couple of hours crossing through ‌midlevel‌ plains, the road ascended to a mountain plateau. The grass thinned, and barren, rocky land surrounded me. I skirted Lake Tekapo, then drove alongside Lake Pukaki. Turquoise water seemed to reach the distant horizon, with clouds obscuring the peaks behind the lake, all of this reflected in its depths.
Finally, I pulled up to the Mt. Cook Alpine Salmon shop, which looked like a national park concession stand -- a step up from a 7-Eleven, but a small step. Inside, the plastic containers of salmon sashimi in refrigerated cases didn't help. Omakase this was not. But I knew better than to heed these outward signs.
Outside, I sat at a wooden picnic table, opened up my salmon, soy sauce‌, and wasabi, chopsticks at the ready, and took a bite. I couldn't help but be influenced by what 1960s hallucinogenic-drug prophets once called the set and the setting: a spectacular journey to reach this glorified convenience store with its astounding surroundings. The salmon tasted intensely fatty and strikingly fresh, as if it had just leapt out of the water, encountered a sharp sashimi knife midair, then landed directly in my plastic container.
Was it worth the journey? ‌ ‌
On my last visit to New Zealand, in 2013, I thought this country was beautiful, but perhaps not exciting. In 2022, New Zealand's tranquil beauty seemed not commonplace, but revelatory. I'll ‌take‌ salmon sashimi, or whatever other pretext I can muster, to experience a place like ‌it.
If You Go:
Flights from the United States and most other countries land in Auckland, New Zealand's biggest city, on the North Island. From Auckland, it's a one hour 25 minute flight to Marlborough Airport, the northern gateway to the South Island. After my road trip, I flew out of Queenstown, in the south, the adventure tourism hub of the country.
Mapu, in Lyttelton, outside Christchurch, has just six seats, with one dinner seating, so reserve as far in advance as you can. A meal for one with a nonalcoholic pairing costs 280 New Zealand dollars (about $ 172); with wine, it's 370 New Zealand dollars.
Accommodations at Glenburn Coastal Retreat, in Hapuku, just north of Kaikoura, go for 429 dollars a night; for that you get a self-contained house with a living room, an expansive bathroom, a bedroom and a backyard barbecue grill, as well as stunning ocean and mountain views.
Black Estate Wines, in the Waipara Valley, has an excellent restaurant and makes some of the area's best wines. A multicourse meal with wine runs about 120 dollars. The estate also offers wine tastings and rents an apartment for 395 dollars a night.
In Christchurch, the George Hotel, fronting Hagley Park, is what every city needs: a comfortable, hyperlocal luxury hotel with meticulous service. Rooms start at 428 dollars a night.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph From top: Marlborough, which is New Zealand's most important wine region; seals in Kaikoura; the Black Estate winery, where a long house, modeled on local farming structures, contains the estate's tasting room, living quarters and restaurant; and the harbor at Lyttleton, near Christchurch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C7.

Subject: Earthquakes; Chefs; Shootings; Restaurants; Mass murders; Pandemics; Roads & highways; Wineries & vineyards; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Wineries & vineyards

Location: New Zealand

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/23/travel/new-zealand-south-island-road-trip.html

Title: Visiting a Salmon Shangri-La in New Zealand:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 4, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772216767

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/visiting-salmon-shangri-la-new-zealand/docview/2772216767/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collecti on

____________________________________________________________

Climate Start-Ups Entice Jaded Tech Workers: [National Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/climate-start-ups-entice-jaded-tech-workers/docview/2770841614/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tech workers and investors are flocking to start-ups that aim to combat climate change.
When Arebeth Pease was laid off from the tech start-up MasterClass last year, she could have had her pick of jobs. But so many tech companies' missions rang hollow, she said, and many were creating more problems than they were fixing.
Ms. Pease, 42, was drawn instead to Span, a start-up that makes smart home electrical panels and is among a class of fast-growing companies aiming to combat climate change. She joined Span in September as an operations manager, with the start-up's focus on slowing the effects of climate change as the main selling point.
"We're actually doing work that matters," she said.
As tech companies slash perks and cut jobs, the downturn has spurred a wake-up call among many workers, causing them to question whether their company's role in society -- selling ads or selling stuff, often -- was actually making the world a better place. The result? More are now flocking to climate start-ups, just as investors pour money into the field.
Last year, climate start-ups in the United States raised nearly $ 20 billion, topping 2021's high of $ 18 billion and nearly tripling 2020's $ 7 billion, according to Crunchbase, a data provider. At least 83 climate-focused companies around the world are worth more than $ 1 billion, according to HolonIQ, a research firm.
Despite worries of a recession, enthusiasm about climate start-ups is undimmed. Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of the investment firm BlackRock, recently declared that 1,000 more $ 1 billion so-called climate unicorns were on the way.
"There is no line of business that will not be impacted by climate," said Chris Sacca, one of the founders of Lowercarbon Capital, a climate-focused venture capital firm, at a conference run by Axios in October. "That's also the opportunity."
The momentum and excitement, investors said, are different from the cleantech boom of the mid-2000s, when investors poured money into a cohort of clean energy companies that were reliant on government subsidies. Many of those start-ups eventually went under.
"There were a lot of lessons learned from the first cleantech wave," said Ben Marcus, an investor at the venture capital firm UP.Partners. "Investors are not just looking to invest in science projects but in real companies."
Now broader economic trends have coalesced to bolster the market. The cost of renewable energy has fallen over the last decade. The Securities and Exchange Commission last year proposed a rule that would require companies to report their emissions, creating demand for tools to measure them. The Inflation Reduction Act, passed last year, dedicated $ 370 billion to climate-related spending.
Large corporations have also elevated climate-focused initiatives to the boardroom, with 91 percent of the global economy now covered by "net zero" pledges of some sort, according to Net Zero Tracker, a nonprofit site.
Climate tech is "one of the few bright spots in the economy and one of the few industries that tend to be extremely recession-resilient," said Rick Zullo, an investor at the venture capital firm Equal Ventures.
At least 135 funds focused on climate investing, with $ 94 billion under management, have been created since 2021, according to the newsletter Climate Tech VC. The largest tech investment firms -- including Sequoia Capital, Khosla Ventures, General Atlantic and TPG -- have increased their investments in climate-tech companies, as have corporate investors like Salesforce and United Airlines.
Lila Preston, an investor at Generation Investment Management, the investment firm that Al Gore helped found in 2004, said the momentum was welcome and "absolutely needed."
"You want the very best investors around the table with you when you are disrupting industries," she said.
Still, with Silicon Valley-style growth comes Silicon Valley-style hype. Many in the industry are wary of the risks of too much money flowing into climate start-ups at inflated valuations. Some fear that the excitement will lead to more "greenwashing" -- when businesses make "green" marketing a priority over actual impact -- and infighting over which solution is best, ultimately damaging the industry's credibility.
But the stakes are too high to be cynical, climate entrepreneurs and investors said.
"There's a bigger fight to fight," said Elisa Jagerson, an investor at Wildcat Venture Partners. "Everything else feels like rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic."
It wasn't always that way. When Julia Collins pitched investors on her climate tech start-up in 2019, she dedicated the first slide of her presentation to a dramatic explanation of the climate emergency. She had created Planet FWD, a software provider that helps businesses manage their climate impact, and Moonshot, a snack food company that uses regenerative ingredients, local suppliers and recycled packaging.
"I had to spend a lot of time on the pitches bringing people up the learning curve," she said.
That has since changed as climate change and extreme weather events became impossible to escape. "We're well beyond the point of having to prove climate change, or that it's a big market," said Ms. Collins, who no longer uses the dramatic slide in her pitches.
Some of the new climate start-ups are already increasing in value, at least on paper, fueled by the floods of cash. Josh Felser, an investor at Climactic, a venture capital firm, said the 11 climate companies that he and a partner had backed over the last two years were now worth two and a half times what they had been at the time of investment because other investors had put more money in at higher valuations.
"It's not because we're that good," he said. "It's because the market is so hot."
Founders said business was booming because potential customers faced more outside pressure to become environmentally friendly, pushing them to spend money on things like emissions trackers and carbon offsets. Infogrid, a start-up that provides tools to make buildings operate and use energy more efficiently, previously had a hard time selling its products to customers, said William Cowell de Gruchy, the company's chief executive.
"Now they're like: 'We've got to do this. Our shareholders are making us. Our boardroom is making us. Regulators are making us,"' he said.
Many tech workers have gone through a similar climate awakening. Olya Irzak, one of the founders of Frost Methane Labs, which helps reduce methane seeps from coal mines and other natural sources, has mentored people who want to work at climate companies for almost a decade. But during the pandemic, more people began reaching out to her and taking an interest in her annual list of climate start-ups, she said.
"People were sitting at home a lot, asking a lot of hard questions," Ms. Irzak said. "That was when the tech talent pool started shifting really dramatically."
One effort, Climate Draft, aims to help climate start-ups find advisers, investors and employees from the tech industry. More than 3,000 recently laid-off tech workers have signed up to learn about jobs at climate companies, the company said. Another online community, Work on Climate, has ballooned to 16,000 members since it began in 2020. People use it to network and learn about jobs.
"Rebuilding every single industry we have is going to require the participation of everybody who is in the work force," said Eugene Kirpichov, a former engineer at Google who helped found Work on Climate.
Diego Saez Gil, a founder of Pachama, a company that funds reforestation and sells carbon credits, said he had recently hired people from Meta, Google, Amazon, Airbnb and Tesla, with some even taking pay cuts to join. That's a change from his past start-ups, where he found it tough to recruit people from big tech companies who would take pay cuts.
"The people coming to climate are missionaries," he said. "They had some kind of awakening. They came to realize, 'The planet is falling apart, and I'm working on making people click on ads."'
That was what happened to Bryan Nella, 47, an account manager who has worked in tech for more than two decades. When pandemic shutdowns briefly cleared the skies of plane and car pollution, he reflected on his impact on society and the environment.
Last year, Mr. Nella joined SemiCab, a start-up that helps trucking companies eliminate miles driven with no cargo. He usually ignored calls from recruiters, he said, but felt inspired by SemiCab's mission to reduce trucking emissions.
"There's a lot more to feel good about," he said.
Photograph "We're actually doing work that matters," said Arebeth Pease, who works at Span, which makes smart home electrical panels.; Julia Collins, founder of Planet FWD and Moonshot Snacks, said, "We're well beyond the point of having to prove climate change."; More people are reaching out about joining climate start-ups, said Olya Irzak, the chief executive and founder of Frost Methane. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANASTASIIA SAPON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Venture capital companies; Energy industry; Emissions; Clean technology; Startups; Climate change; Employment; Pandemics; Recessions

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital companies Energy industry Startups Employment Recessions

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/30/technology/recession-resilient-climate-start-ups-shin e-in-tech-downturn.html

Title: Climate Start-Ups Entice Jaded Tech Workers:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 31, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770841614

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/climate-start-ups-entice-jaded-tech-workers/docview/2770841614/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

‘Recession Resilient’ Climate Startups Shine in Tech Downturn

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recession-resilient-climate-startups-shine-tech/docview/2770716497/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — When Arebeth Pease was laid off from the tech startup MasterClass last year, she could have had her pick of jobs. But so many tech companies’ missions rang hollow, she said, and many were creating more problems than they were fixing.
Pease, 42, was drawn instead to Span, a startup that makes smart home electrical panels and is among a class of fast-growing companies aiming to combat climate change. She joined Span in September as an operations manager, with the startup’s focus on slowing the effects of climate change as the main selling point.
“We’re actually doing work that matters,” she said.
As tech companies slash perks and cut jobs, the downturn has spurred a wake-up call among many workers, causing them to question whether their company’s role in society — selling ads or selling stuff, often — was actually making the world a better place. The result? More are now flocking to climate startups, just as investors pour money into the field.
Last year, climate startups in the United States raised nearly $20 billion, topping 2021’s high of $18 billion and nearly tripling 2020’s $7 billion, according to Crunchbase, a data provider. At least 83 climate-focused companies around the world are worth more than $1 billion, according to HolonIQ, a research firm.
Despite worries of a recession, enthusiasm about climate startups is undimmed. Laurence D. Fink, CEO of the investment firm BlackRock, recently declared that 1,000 more $1 billion so-called climate unicorns were on the way.
“There is no line of business that will not be impacted by climate,” said Chris Sacca, one of the founders of Lowercarbon Capital, a climate-focused venture capital firm, at a conference run by Axios in October. “That’s also the opportunity.”
The momentum and excitement, investors said, are different from the cleantech boom of the mid-2000s, when investors poured money into a cohort of clean energy companies that were reliant on government subsidies. Many of those startups eventually went under.
“There were a lot of lessons learned from the first cleantech wave,” said Ben Marcus, an investor at the venture capital firm UP.Partners. “Investors are not just looking to invest in science projects but in real companies.”
Now broader economic trends have coalesced to bolster the market. The cost of renewable energy has fallen over the past decade. The Securities and Exchange Commission last year proposed a rule that would require companies to report their emissions, creating demand for tools to measure them. The Inflation Reduction Act, passed last year, dedicated $370 billion to climate-related spending.
Large corporations have also elevated climate-focused initiatives to the boardroom, with 91% of the global economy now covered by “net zero” pledges of some sort, according to Net Zero Tracker, a nonprofit site.
Climate tech is “one of the few bright spots in the economy and one of the few industries that tend to be extremely recession-resilient,” said Rick Zullo, an investor at the venture capital firm Equal Ventures.
At least 135 funds focused on climate investing, with $94 billion under management, have been created since 2021, according to the newsletter Climate Tech VC. The largest tech investment firms — including Sequoia Capital, Khosla Ventures, General Atlantic and TPG — have increased their investments in climate-tech companies, as have corporate investors such as Salesforce and United Airlines.
Lila Preston, an investor at Generation Investment Management, the investment firm that Al Gore helped found in 2004, said the momentum was welcome and “absolutely needed.”
“You want the very best investors around the table with you when you are disrupting industries,” she said.
Still, with Silicon Valley-style growth comes Silicon Valley-style hype. Many in the industry are wary of the risks of too much money flowing into climate startups at inflated valuations. Some fear that the excitement will lead to more “greenwashing” — when businesses make “green” marketing a priority over actual impact — and infighting over which solution is best, ultimately damaging the industry’s credibility.
But the stakes are too high to be cynical, climate entrepreneurs and investors said.
“There’s a bigger fight to fight,” said Elisa Jagerson, an investor at Wildcat Venture Partners. “Everything else feels like rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.”
It wasn’t always that way. When Julia Collins pitched investors on her climate tech startup in 2019, she dedicated the first slide of her presentation to a dramatic explanation of the climate emergency. She had created Planet FWD, a software provider that helps businesses manage their climate impact, and Moonshot, a snack food company that uses regenerative ingredients, local suppliers and recycled packaging.
“I had to spend a lot of time on the pitches bringing people up the learning curve,” she said.
That has since changed as climate change and extreme weather events became impossible to escape. “We’re well beyond the point of having to prove climate change, or that it’s a big market,” said Collins, who no longer uses the dramatic slide in her pitches.
Some of the new climate startups are already increasing in value, at least on paper, fueled by the floods of cash. Josh Felser, an investor at Climactic, a venture capital firm, said the 11 climate companies that he and a partner had backed over the past two years were now worth 2 1/2 times what they had been at the time of investment because other investors had put more money in at higher valuations.
“It’s not because we’re that good,” he said. “It’s because the market is so hot.”
Founders said business was booming because potential customers faced more outside pressure to become environmentally friendly, pushing them to spend money on things like emissions trackers and carbon offsets. Infogrid, a startup that provides tools to make buildings operate and use energy more efficiently, previously had a hard time selling its products to customers, said William Cowell de Gruchy, the company’s CEO.
“Now they’re like: ‘We’ve got to do this. Our shareholders are making us. Our boardroom is making us. Regulators are making us,’” he said.
Many tech workers have gone through a similar climate awakening. Olya Irzak, one of the founders of Frost Methane Labs, which helps reduce methane seeps from coal mines and other natural sources, has mentored people who want to work at climate companies for almost a decade. But during the pandemic, more people began reaching out to her and taking an interest in her annual list of climate startups, she said.
“People were sitting at home a lot, asking a lot of hard questions,” Irzak said. “That was when the tech talent pool started shifting really dramatically.”
One effort, Climate Draft, aims to help climate startups find advisers, investors and employees from the tech industry. More than 3,000 recently laid-off tech workers have signed up to learn about jobs at climate companies, the company said. Another online community, Work on Climate, has ballooned to 16,000 members since it began in 2020. People use it to network and learn about jobs.
“Rebuilding every single industry we have is going to require the participation of everybody who is in the workforce,” said Eugene Kirpichov, a former engineer at Google who helped found Work on Climate.
Diego Saez Gil, a founder of Pachama, a company that funds reforestation and sells carbon credits, said he had recently hired people from Meta, Google, Amazon, Airbnb and Tesla, with some even taking pay cuts to join. That’s a change from his past startups, where he found it tough to recruit people from big tech companies who would take pay cuts.
“The people coming to climate are missionaries,” he said. “They had some kind of awakening. They came to realize, ‘The planet is falling apart, and I’m working on making people click on ads.’”
That was what happened to Bryan Nella, 47, an account manager who has worked in tech for more than two decades. When pandemic shutdowns briefly cleared the skies of plane and car pollution, he reflected on his impact on society and the environment.
Last year, Nella joined SemiCab, a startup that helps trucking companies eliminate miles driven with no cargo. He usually ignored calls from recruiters, he said, but felt inspired by SemiCab’s mission to reduce trucking emissions.
“There’s a lot more to feel good about,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Energy industry; Emissions; Clean technology; Startups; Employment; Pandemics; Venture capital companies; Climate change; Recessions

Business indexing term: Subject: Energy industry Startups Employment Venture capital companies Recessions

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; San Francisco Calif ornia

Identifier / keyword: Business; United States; SalesforceCom Inc; Sequoia Capital; Khosla Ventures; Securities And Exchange Commission; Sacca, Chris (1975 ); Tesla Motors Inc; Fink, Laurence D; United Airlines; Google Inc; General Atlantic Llc; Gore, Al; Blackrock Inc; AmazonCom Inc; Trucks And Trucking; Corporations; Wages And Salaries; Methane; Energy And Power; Two Thousands (Decade); Fuel Efficiency; Fuel Emissions (Transportation); Pollution; United States Economy; Air Pollution; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Workplace Environment; Boards Of Directors; Containers And Packaging; Careers And Professions; Generation Z; Entrepreneurship; Advertising And Marketing; Food; Mines And Mining; Philanthropy; Stocks And Bonds; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Company Reports; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Employee Fringe Benefits; Labor And Jobs; Inflation Reduction Act Of 2022; Airlines And Airplanes; Sustainable Living; Corporate Social Responsibility; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Recession And Depression; Private Equity; Global Warming; Venture Capital; Start Ups

Title: ‘Recession Resilient’ Climate Startups Shine in Tech Downturn

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-30 @ 18:04

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770716497

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recession-resilient-climate-startups-shine-tech/docview/2770716497/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Taking an Aggressive Look at Passive Income: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Roepe, Lisa Rabasca

Publication info: Roepe, Lisa Rabasca. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-aggressive-look-at-passive-income/docview/2770379294/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Misconceptions about passive income abound, namely that it's easy to earn.
Luca Alboretti was enticed by the thought of making money in his sleep.
He was looking to supplement his income as a real estate agent in 2018 when he created an online store selling golf products, an idea he had hatched after watching a YouTube video about how to earn $ 150,000 a year in "passive" income selling salt and pepper shakers online.
"I thought I would wake up to a couple of hundred orders, fulfill them and collect my profit," said Mr. Alboretti, 28, who lives in northern New Jersey.
He spent about $ 5,000 on sourcing and testing the golf products, developing a private-label product and paying website management fees. He put in about 10 hours setting up his online store, writing descriptions for each item, communicating with suppliers and marketing his site.
Yet a year later, Mr. Alboretti had made only $ 300 in sales. He closed the store and began using the Instagram page he had created for it to share humorous real estate content he made instead. "I worked hard to get my couple of hundred followers and didn't want them to go to waste," he said.
That morphed into ActuallyAgents, a multiplatform social media brand that is known for its clever memes on Instagram and free educational resources for real estate professionals and lead generation services for brokers in the United States and Britain.
ActuallyAgents has become Mr. Alboretti's full-time job. "The courses, videos and social media content don't create themselves," he said. "None of this is passive."
Search "passive income" on YouTube, TikTok or Reddit and you'll find a wealth of videos by people claiming they make thousands of dollars each month this way -- whether they sell courses, e-books or other products online; offer property on short-term rental platforms like Airbnb and VRBO; or even buy and maintain vending machines in high-traffic buildings. The allure: Theoretically, it's easier than a traditional 9-to-5 "job."
"We live in a passive-income-obsessed culture," said John Boyd, founder of MDRN Wealth, a financial planning firm in Scottsdale, Ariz.
This preoccupation with making money effortlessly, he said, is fueled by investors in their late 20s to early 40s, who are understandably frustrated that they aren't in the same financial position their middle-class parents were at their age and are looking for easy ways to catch up. But investing several thousand dollars to buy a vending machine that pays out just a few hundred a month, or overextending yourself by taking out a 10-year mortgage to buy a rental property, isn't the best way to create long-term wealth or to save for retirement, Mr. Boyd said.
While many people claim to be making passive income, particularly on social media, only 20 percent of American households earn such income -- either through dividends, interest or rental properties, according to Census Bureau data. And the median amount that those households make from those sources is $ 4,200 a year, according to bureau figures.
So, what is passive income?
The Internal Revenue Service defines it as trade or business activity that you don't materially participate in, meaning you aren't involved in its operations on a continual and significant basis. However, the I.R.S. does consider rental real estate activities a source of passive income as long as the property owner isn't a real estate professional.
Yet there is much confusion about what qualifies. What people often call "passive income" is income that isn't dependent on a single paycheck or employer, said Kevin J. Brady, a vice president at Wealthspire Advisors in New York City. In some cases, without understanding the difference, people are talking about leveraged income -- putting in time and effort in advance to earn recurring profits from selling, say, an online course or an e-book -- or additional revenue from a side hustle (that is, more work).
Although the I.R.S. recognizes renting property as a way to create passive income, people often underestimate the time and money needed to buy and maintain that property. Unexpected repairs and expenses can eat into rental profits. As the property owner, you're on the hook to pay property taxes and insurance costs, and if the property is in another state, you might need to pay someone to manage it.
"What will you do if you're hoping that tenants will pay the monthly mortgage on your rental property, but you don't have any tenants and you can't pay the mortgage yourself?" Mr. Boyd said.
Extra income isn't passive
Gina Vanegas and her husband, Andres Velasquez, have experience developing multiple income sources, including ones that generate leveraged income.
About 20 percent of their total income derives from two rental properties they own in Atlanta. The couple each owned a home there before they moved to California in 2015. Because they initially planned to return to Atlanta, they rented the properties to long-term tenants.
"It helped to fund my life as a student for several years," said Dr. Vanegas, 37, a psychologist.
Dr. Vanegas is adding another revenue stream by developing an online course, the BIPOC Survival Guide to Graduate School, with a colleague. She also earns income by livestreaming workshops on vicarious trauma and leading with intention and inclusivity. Mr. Velasquez, 37, has a full-time job in corporate finance.
"Our goal for that income is to provide financial flexibility for our family," said Dr. Vanegas, who owns Health & Inclusivity, a consulting firm in Santa Barbara, Calif., that helps organizations create an inclusive culture through assessment, evaluation and professional development.
That work will also supplement her retirement savings. "I do have a small 401(k), but having been a student for most of my life, earning a Ph.D., I feel behind," she said.
Dr. Vanegas said she had initially felt a bit ashamed of that extra money, especially when family and friends would refer to it as "passive income," implying that she didn't have to do any work to earn it.
"Thinking specifically as a Latina, it's ingrained in our stories to really have to work hard to get ahead," she said. "Somehow passive income doesn't count as hard work, but that couldn't be further from the truth."
For instance, Dr. Vanegas said, it takes about 10 hours to develop a one-hour online workshop. And being a residential landlord is labor intensive. Finding a long-term tenant isn't always easy, and when something breaks, it needs to be fixed or replaced immediately even though she and her husband live more than 2,000 miles from the property.
The couple recently bought another property, in Mexico, that they hope to rent through Airbnb this year after they complete renovations, buy furniture and find a local manager. Dr. Vanegas estimates that they've invested several thousand dollars getting the property ready to rent.
"I hear a lot of people say buy these properties and you don't have to do a thing," she said. "People don't realize how much work it takes."
Compound interest creates passive income
Stacy J. Miller, a financial planner, said she believed that the pandemic had further fueled workers' desire to create passive income. Many Americans had more free time, and they started to question whether working a traditional job would provide them enough money.
"People want to earn extra money to save for retirement and to do fun things now, and that takes more time and energy than people have," she said.
Ms. Miller's two sons became interested in investing in January 2021 during the meme stock frenzy. At the time, her sons were still doing virtual classes at Georgia Tech, and all campus activities had been canceled. The headlines about amateur investors making money buying and selling GameStop stock on the Robinhood trading app grabbed their attention.
Every time GameStop's stock rose, Ms. Miller's sons called her to discuss how novice traders were making big bucks.
"It was a great learning experience," said Ms. Miller, a vice president at Bright Investments in Tampa, Fla. She explained that the value of GameStop stock could easily plummet, and that if an investor sold the stock at its high, he would owe significant taxes.
"You could easily owe more than the money made on Robinhood when you factor in all the transaction fees," she said.
Ms. Miller's elder son, Jamie, 21, said the experience had "brought the idea of investing to my attention and doing things with your money rather than just put it in a saving account that won't earn much interest."
That lesson stayed with him, and during the summer of 2021 he decided to invest 20 percent of his internship salary. After talking with his mother, Mr. Miller made those investments within a Roth individual retirement account, which he opened when he was 19.
Last year, he contributed the maximum amount of $ 6,000, earned from another internship. If he continues to max out his I.R.A. contribution, he could have $ 4 million in his account by age 65, assuming a healthy 10 percent annualized return on his investment, Ms. Miller said. Even if he doesn't contribute another dollar to his account, he could have $ 650,000 by age 65.
"Compound interest is absolutely one of the keys to the success of passive income," Ms. Miller said.
Photograph Top, Luca Alboretti was hoping to make "passive" income by selling products online, but discovered that the amount of work required is a full-time job. Above, Gina Vanegas is adding another revenue stream by developing an online course. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN ANSELM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEPHEN GOLDSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU5.

Subject: Internships; Compound interest; E-books; Video recordings; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Compound interest Social networks

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: GameStop Corp; NAICS: 449210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/27/business/passive-income-job-retirement.html

Title: Taking an Aggressive Look at Passive Income:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 29, 2023

column: Retiring

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770379294

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-aggressive-look-at-passive-income/docview/2770379294/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In New Zealand, Sauvignon Wishes and Sashimi Dreams

Author: Downey, Tom

Publication info: Downey, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-zealand-sauvignon-wishes-sashimi-dreams/docview/2768769385/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For my first night in New Zealand’s South Island, I had booked an Airbnb in Hawkesbury, a hamlet in the middle of the country’s most important wine region, Marlborough, famous for the huge quantities of sauvignon blanc it produces. The single-lane dirt road to my lodging snaked past some rusty old vehicles in the middle of a working farm, dipped down into a valley, ascended and then circled a steep hill, finally revealing a small, perfect cabin nestled on a gentle slope. The only things visible from my home for the night were rolling hills blanketed in vivid green, backed by rocky mountains towering over them.
New Zealand had just reopened to the world, and I was on a road trip. Unlike the American West, where a road trip usually means long, high-mileage days crossing vast distances, New Zealand’s wild and rustic South Island offers comparable natural grandeur with much less driving. My night in Hawkesbury would be followed by a day at beachside Kaikoura. After a couple of nights in Christchurch, the largest city in the south, I would journey to the highest mountain range in the land. My route, stretching 375 miles from the far north to the deep south, offered easy daily drives while also managing to cover everything from wine tasting to seal watching, shopping in cities to hiking on glaciers.
My ultimate destination was the Mount Cook Alpine Salmon shop, on the shores of Lake Pukaki, in the Southern Alps. Several weeks before, a sushi chef in Sydney had served me some of the best salmon I had ever had — fresh and full of flavor. In a wistful tone, he told me that it had come from the Alpine Salmon shop. “It’s the most beautiful place I’ve ever been. I’ve been dreaming about going back for all of COVID times,” he said.
My primary route would be State Highway 1, a two-lane track that would take me all the way to Christchurch. On my first day of serious driving, the road wound its way out of wine country and climbed over a set of mountain passes, and then, suddenly and surprisingly, the Pacific Ocean stretched before me. The highway descended to the sea and I saw gray waves pounding the craggy coastline. My destination was Kaikoura, which means “eat crayfish” in the Maori language. Its main street was sleepy — a beach town hibernating in the offseason.
I followed the street to the end, parked and walked along a footpath to the shore, site of Kaikoura’s resident seal colony. On the jagged rocks before me, seals with coats so slick they looked as if they had been recently oiled were squawking at one another and waddling to the water’s edge.
I ate at the oldest pub in Kaikoura, the Pier Hotel, where the server poured me a pint of beer then came at me with numbers: “We have a 600-gram crayfish; we’ve got 800 grams. We have bigger ones for more people.” I opted for 600 grams (about 1.3 pounds), and what came out was what North Americans would call a lobster, slightly different in appearance, but similar in taste.
That night I slept just outside Kaikoura at the Glenburn Coastal Retreat, made up of three large, comfortable, modern homes built on a bluff overlooking the ocean.
Riesling and resilience
As the road wound south toward Christchurch, wineries dominated the green, rolling hills of the Waipara Valley, one of New Zealand’s newest wine regions. Waipara first saw vineyards planted in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but started to flourish as a commercial winemaking region only in the past decade.
My lunch destination was Black Estate, which had been recommended to me by a retired winemaker, Guy Porter, of Bellbird Spring wines. A striking, dark-colored longhouse, modeled on local farming structures, contained the estate’s tasting room, living quarters and restaurant, with simple wooden tables overlooking the biodynamically farmed vineyards. I ate a superb mussels escabeche, in which the shellfish had been slightly pickled to complement its briny essence, washed down with a bone-dry riesling.
That night I made it to Christchurch, most famous in recent times for a devastating earthquake that struck in 2011, killing 185 people and leaving a large part of the city uninhabitable. The next morning, I made my way to the Transitional Cathedral, designed by Japanese architect Shigeru Ban. It is also known as the Cardboard Cathedral because of the way Ban used that material to construct an interim structure after the city’s original Anglican cathedral was rendered unsafe by the earthquake. Nine years after it was built, his cardboard structure still functions as the city’s Anglican cathedral; the original stone structure is set to reopen in 2027 after extensive renovations.
Inside, I talked to a tour guide who walked me around the A-frame building, explaining the construction as we looked back from the altar toward colorful stained-glass windows that ascended from the entrance to the apex of the roof. The bones of the building were long cardboard rods, sheathed in waterproof, flame-retardant material so they could last for decades.
Our conversation shifted from the earthquake and its aftermath to a more recent Christchurch tragedy, the 2019 mass shootings at two local mosques, which killed 51 worshippers. “The day after those shootings, our bishop said to me, ‘Maybe we should close for safety,’” the guide said. “But we had to stay open. That day we had Muslims, Christians, everyone come here to talk, to cry, to hug, to come together. Ever since the earthquake, this building has been central to Christchurch.”
Chef, server, forager, farmer
Lyttelton, a coastal town outside the city, is home to a restaurant called Mapu, which came recommended by the owner of La Fuente, my favorite wine bar in Auckland. The next night, Mapu’s chef, Giulio Sturla, ushered me into one of the smallest restaurant spaces I had ever seen, less than 400 square feet for both the kitchen and a six-seat dining counter. I sat next to two other diners and scanned the room, searching for the server, the bartender or the maître d’.
Sturla spied me looking around and explained that he did everything at this restaurant himself: Not only was he sommelier, prep cook and sous chef; he was also forager and farmer, with nearby plots that supplied much of the restaurant’s produce. He serves just one seating a night.
“When you only serve six people a night, then you can grow a lot more of the food you serve,” he said. “And you can do everything exactly the way you want.”
The nine-course meal was not just dinner; it was a conversation, a demonstration and unlike any other restaurant experience I had ever had. Mapu is not only tiny, but also supremely interactive, constantly changing and intensely creative.
Before serving the fifth course, a plate of fire-roasted eggplant with black garlic and shallot sauce, pureed Jerusalem artichokes blended into homemade buttermilk and a bright green thyme oil topped with walnuts, Sturla demonstrated how he hand-peels the membranes from each walnut kernel in order to get a less bitter flavor. (It takes him about half an hour per kernel.)
Sturla originally ran a much bigger, award-winning restaurant next door, for which the Mapu space had been the test kitchen. “I wanted to return to doing what I love — being a chef,” he said, “and stop having to be a manager, a businessman, a marketer.”
This possibility of making a restaurant so small scale, so connected to the sea and the land, and so personal, all during the pandemic, seemed hard to imagine in any place other than New Zealand. The country was among the most isolated nations on Earth during the COVID outbreak, almost completely cut off from the rest of the world for two years.
Because of its isolation, New Zealand was able to stay out of lockdown for long stretches of the pandemic. Businesses like Sturla’s, with an intimate, indoor space, were able to start up, grow and flourish here, even in the face of COVID. To me there was something distinctively Kiwi about the intimacy of his place.
Climbing to nirvana
For the final leg of my journey, I carefully scanned the weather reports, since I had to cross a high mountain pass that closes frequently because of snow. The morning promised a clear sky, bright sun and little precipitation, so I hit the road early for the three-hour drive to the Mount Cook Alpine Salmon shop, the end of my pilgrimage.
The highest-altitude salmon farm in the world, Alpine Salmon features fast-flowing water infused with oxygen, which it says ensures that the fish are well exercised and need no vaccines, pesticides or antibiotics and minimal human intervention to thrive.
After a couple of hours crossing through midlevel plains, the road ascended to a mountain plateau. The grass thinned, and barren, rocky land surrounded me. I skirted Lake Tekapo, then drove alongside Lake Pukaki. Turquoise water seemed to reach the distant horizon, with clouds obscuring the peaks behind the lake, all of this reflected in its depths.
Finally, I pulled up to the Mount Cook Alpine Salmon shop, which looked like a national park concession stand — a step up from a 7-Eleven, but a small step. Inside, the plastic containers of salmon sashimi in refrigerated cases didn’t help. Omakase this was not. But I knew better than to heed these outward signs.
Outside, I sat at a wooden picnic table, opened up my salmon, soy sauce, and wasabi, chopsticks at the ready, and took a bite. I couldn’t help but be influenced by what 1960s hallucinogenic-drug prophets once called the set and the setting: a spectacular journey to reach this glorified convenience store with its astounding surroundings. The salmon tasted intensely fatty and strikingly fresh, as if it had just leapt out of the water, encountered a sharp sashimi knife midair, then landed directly in my plastic container.
Was it worth the journey?
On my last visit to New Zealand, in 2013, I thought this country was beautiful, but perhaps not exciting. In 2022, New Zealand’s tranquil beauty seemed not commonplace, but revelatory. I’ll take salmon sashimi, or whatever other pretext I can muster, to experience a place like it.
If You Go:
Flights from the United States and most other countries land in Auckland, New Zealand’s biggest city, on the North Island. From Auckland, it’s a one-hour, 25-minute flight to Marlborough Airport, the northern gateway to the South Island. After my road trip, I flew out of Queenstown, in the south, the adventure tourism hub of the country.
Mapu, in Lyttelton, outside Christchurch, has just six seats, with one dinner seating, so reserve as far in advance as you can. A meal for one with a nonalcoholic pairing costs 280 New Zealand dollars (about $172); with wine, it’s 370 New Zealand dollars.
Accommodations at Glenburn Coastal Retreat, in Hapuku, just north of Kaikoura, go for $429 a night; for that you get a self-contained house with a living room, an expansive bathroom, a bedroom and a backyard barbecue grill, as well as stunning ocean and mountain views.
Black Estate Wines, in the Waipara Valley, has an excellent restaurant and makes some of the area’s best wines. A multicourse meal with wine runs about $120. The estate also offers wine tastings and rents an apartment for $395 a night.
In Christchurch, the George Hotel, fronting Hagley Park, is what every city needs: a comfortable, hyperlocal luxury hotel with meticulous service. Rooms start at $428 a night. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Earthquakes; Chefs; Shootings; Restaurants; Mass murders; Pandemics; Roads & highways; Wineries & vineyards; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Wineries & vineyards

Location: New Zealand; Mount Cook

Identifier / keyword: Travel; Queenstown (New Zealand); Japan; North America; Pacific Ocean; United States; Airbnb; Ban, Shigeru; South Island (New Zealand); Auckland (New Zealand); Christchurch (New Zealand); New Zealand; Interior Design And Furnishings; Water; Seafood; Kitchens; Rock And Stone; Sushi; Seals (Animals) And Sealing; Shopping And Retail; Executives And Management (Theory); Bars And Nightclubs; Indigenous Australians; Advertising And Marketing; Firearms; Earthquakes; Records And Achievements; Shutdowns (Institutional); Christchurch, New Zealand, Attack (March 2019); Chefs; Taste; Agriculture And Farming; Road Trips; Deaths (Fatalities); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Salmon; Restaurants; Hotels And Travel Lodgings; Coastal Areas; Travel And Vacations

Title: In New Zealand, Sauvignon Wishes and Sashimi Dreams

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-24 @ 16:27

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2768769385

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-zealand-sauvignon-wishes-sashimi-dreams/docview/2768769385/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Are People Who Left Their Jobs in 2022 Still Happy?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Needelman, Joshua

Publication info: Needelman, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/are-people-who-left-their-jobs-2022-still-happy/docview/2768614840/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Last summer we shared stories of people who were part of 2022's surge in quitting. Months later, we asked them if they were still glad they switched gears.
Calling It Quits is a series about the current culture of quitting.
Last summer we asked readers who had quit their jobs to share how their decision affected their lives. We heard from people who carved out more time for family, sought out less hectic schedules that better suited their physical and mental health and worked through financial challenges.
As Americans continue to quit their jobs in record numbers despite soaring inflation, we reconnected with six of those readers to see if they still felt happy about their decisions -- and if the United States' current economic health had changed their calculus.
Ana del Rocío
Ana del Rocío, a single mother, quit her job as executive director of a nonprofit group, Oregon Futures Lab, on Dec. 31, 2021. She wanted to spend more time with her sons, Tupac, 10, and Inti, 7, in their Portland, Ore., home. But Ms. del Rocío, 36, knew the experiment had an expiration date: Her retirement savings were likely to run out before the end of 2022.
Where is she now? Ms. del Rocío returned to the work force in September 2022, serving as chief of staff for her sister Andrea Valderrama, the Democratic state representative in Oregon's 47th District. Then, after the New Year, Ms. del Rocío made the decision to seek office herself. She is running for commissioner of District 3 in Multnomah County, the most populous in Oregon.
Her decision was solidified on Christmas Day, when, on the car ride back from her sister's home, she and her sons saw a family setting up a tent on the side of an icy road.
"I realized, yes, I have fully committed myself to being their mother, that's what drives me, that's what I want to do with my time, but I'm not raising my children in a vacuum," Ms. del Rocío said. "I needed to be able to tell them, actually, this is not OK. And this is what mommy is going to do about it."
Was quitting worth it? Ms. del Rocío doesn't think she would be in the right head space to pursue public office if not for her nearly 10-month hiatus from work, during which, she said, she developed more healthy relationships with her children and overcame burnout.
Ms. del Rocío did deplete her retirement savings, but she's hopeful that serving office will benefit both her family and her possible constituents. "It's very much an extension of my mothering. Raising children for the world, and raising the world for the children, those two things very much go together for me," Ms. del Rocío said.
Natalie Hanson
After quitting her job as a local newspaper reporter in Chico, Calif., in June 2021, Natalie Hanson, 26, took a similar role at a paper in Oakland -- and then quit again. In May 2022 she started as a reporter for Courthouse News Service, but anticipated needing to move by the end of the year because of rising rent.
Where is she now? Ms. Hanson did end up moving, from downtown Oakland to a cheaper and larger apartment in East Oakland, where she now lives with her partner, dog and cat. She said she was saving at least $ 500 in monthly rent. "Rental prices have started to fluctuate in the Bay Area, depending on where you live," Ms. Hanson said.
Ms. Hanson is also writing freelance articles for local newspapers to supplement her income with Courthouse News Service.
Was quitting worth it? Ms. Hanson's initial quitting spawned a cascade of major life decisions, ultimately leading her to a place of satisfaction. "I'm pretty surprised that I've been able to make it work, living in such an expensive place, but also such a beautiful place," Ms. Hanson said. "You have to be really creative."
Jim Walker
Jim Walker, 53, had spent his life working in churches but changed course when the pandemic shut down his church. He left his job as a pastor and became a freelance tour guide, spending much of his time on the road exploring new places.
Where is he now? Mr. Walker continues to enjoy the freedom afforded by a freelancer's schedule, but is considering taking on longer-term roles with larger companies for more pay. As much as he finds meaning in the work, he conceded that this phase of his life might end at some point. "I don't know if you can live on the road forever," he said. "Have I enjoyed it this past year? Heck, yeah. Does it fit me really well? Obviously, yeah, it's really good. But maybe 10 years from now, I don't know if I'll still be doing this. It's hard to say."
Was quitting worth it? Mr. Walker acknowledges the privilege that allows him to make this lifestyle work -- he lives at his brother's home and his only major expenses are his health insurance, car insurance and cellphone bill. But he feels more fulfilled in his work than ever. "I wish I had done this to begin with, because it's the kind of thing that works with my personality really well," he said. "I'm like a fish in water."
Rachel Sobel
Rachel Sobel, 53, left her job in Chicago as a communications director for a health insurance company in February 2022. She got into freelance writing and editing and planned to start her own creative collective. After quitting, Ms. Sobel faced some financial challenges -- her basement ceiling was in desperate need of repair -- but was adamant that the shift had been a boon for her well-being. She had planned to re-evaluate her professional future at the end of 2022 and didn't rule out returning to work full time.
Where is she now? Ms. Sobel has had more success than she expected as a freelancer. She said that by working 30 hours per week for various clients, her gross income was "just about at 100 percent" of what she had earned working full-time. She said she could now afford to fix her ceiling and had signed a contract to do so. Ms. Sobel is also almost ready to start her creative collective and plans to sign up for life insurance, which she previously had through her full-time job.
Was quitting worth it? Ms. Sobel said she had more ownership of her time and was in good financial health. She doesn't plan on returning to the full-time work force anytime soon.
"When I first did it, I thought it would be a temporary thing," Ms. Sobel said. "But it's working out so well, it doesn't have to be temporary."
Susan Woodland
Susan Woodland, 68, left her position as director of collections at a New York City museum in May 2020. She relied on her substantial savings and money from investments to make ends meet, but acknowledged that finances were a little tight.
Where is she now? Ms. Woodland is working one day per week, for a historical society. Because of inflation, she has had to increase the amount of money she takes out of her investments every month. She has managed to live off less than when she was working full time. It helps that she has Medicare and owns her Manhattan apartment, she said.
Was quitting worth it? Ms. Woodland has always been frugal and so is well prepared for the present climate. She has found meaning in spending her time following her interests, mapping out a future writing project about the dark side of the fashion industry and volunteering for a local abortion clinic. "Instead of focusing 100 percent of the time on myself, I want to try and do things that are actually of value to people," she said.
Jennifer Padham
Early in the pandemic Jennifer Padham, 41, and her partner purchased a sprawling property in the woods of New Hampton, N.Y. Ms. Padham, who had quit her job as an archivist at Netflix shortly before the pandemic, planned to turn the property into a spiritual retreat center. She lived in one of the five cottages on the land.
Where is she now? Ms. Padham's timeline for the retreat center has been pushed back, in part because of a split with her partner, but she hopes to open it by the end of 2023. In the meantime, she has turned two of the cottages into Airbnb rentals. She uses the profits to support herself and to continue developing the center. The units have been booked less often this winter than the last one, Ms. Padham said.
Was quitting worth it? Ms. Padham has found value in learning to adapt her vision. "I'm just allowing the seasons to show me what this place wants to be, and what's really best," Ms. Padham said. "I'm trying not to impose a system on it."
Photograph Ana del Rocío is running for commissioner of District 3 in Multnomah County, the most populous in Oregon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Rachel Sobel of Chicago, a former communications director, freelances and plans to start a creative collective. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN JENKINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Jennifer Padham at home in New Hampton, N.Y. She hopes to open a spiritual retreat center by the end of 2023. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Rentals; Freelance; Employment; Pandemics; Health insurance

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment Health insurance

Location: United States--US; Oregon

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/16/business/quitting-jobs-happiness.html

Title: Are People Who Left Their Jobs in 2022 Still Happy?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 24, 2023

column: Calling It Quits

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2768614840

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/are-people-who-left-their-jobs-2022-still-happy/docview/2768614840/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [National Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2767531034/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Sunday, Jan. 22, 2023.
SUNDAY BUSINESS
The Strategies column last Sunday, on investing over a short time period, referred incorrectly to the number of years it would have taken for an investment to double based on the S&P 500's rate of return over the past 25 years. It would have taken nine or 10 years, not six or seven.
An article last Sunday on pay transparency misspelled the name of the law firm where LaKeisha Caton is a partner. It is Pryor Cashman, not Pryor Chasman.
ARTS & LEISURE
An article on Jan. 8 about "Black Panther: Wakanda Forever" misstated whose funeral Lupita Nyong'o's character was attending. It was another character's funeral, not T'Challa's.
METROPOLITAN
An article on Page 1 this weekend about Rebecca Lorch, a competitive powerlifter, misidentifies the time and place that Ms. Lorch, Abbie Deal and their boyfriends shared an Airbnb rental. It was in 2020 at the America's Strongest Man & Woman in Savannah, Ga., not at the 2019 Nationals in Daytona Beach.
REAL ESTATE
The Ask column last Sunday misspelled in one instance the surname of a professor at the Univer­sity of Minnesota Law School. He is Matthew T. Bodie, not Brodie.
An article last Sunday about Black real estate appraisers misstated where Ayako Marsh, an ap­praiser, lives. She lives in Washington, D.C., not Baltimore.
BOOK REVIEW
A picture caption with a review on Jan. 1 about Aidan Levy's "Saxophone Colossus," using information from Getty Im­ages, misstated the date of a photograph of Sonny Rollins. It showed Rollins in 1978, not "circa 1960."
Because of an editing error, the By the Book interview with Leigh Bardugo on Jan. 8 misattributed the quotation "key­hole black." It comes from the fiction writer Kelly Link, not from the poet Donika Kelly.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A18.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/22/pageoneplus/corrections-jan-22-2023.html

Title: Corrections:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retra ction

ProQuest document ID: 2767531034

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2767531034/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Engagement Parties That Carry a Cover Charge: [Society Desk]

Author: Gonzalez, Shivani

Publication info: Gonzalez, Shivani. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/engagement-parties-that-carry-cover-charge/docview/2767531004/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Stag and does" are a largely rural Ontario tradition that help engaged couples raise money for their nuptials -- and give neighbors a good reason to party.
In the conventional sequence of events, first comes love, then comes marriage ... then comes a massive bill for the wedding.
And it's an especially expensive time to get married. Like the United States, which has seen a sharp increase in wedding costs because of inflation and a wedding boom, Canada is experiencing a similar rise, with nuptials costing an average of 30 percent more than they did before the pandemic.
Engagement and weddings gifts -- whether cash or material goods -- have always been one way to offset wedding costs. But one tradition some experts believe dates back to the 1940s in the Canadian province of Ontario cuts right to the chase, and early: Couples there often host what are known as stag and doe parties in advance of a wedding with the explicit goal of raising money for it.
There are a few things that are essential to any stag and doe, said Carrie Mifsud, owner of Jack of All Spades, a stag and doe game rental and planning business in Grimsby: entry tickets, raffle prizes and games.
The cost of an entry ticket varies depending on the region. In a really rural area, it might cost five Canadian dollars (over $ 3), Ms. Mifsud said. As you get closer to Toronto, it could set you back 50 dollars (about $ 35). Additional funds are typically raised from the sale of raffle tickets -- prizes may include liquor, tickets to hockey games or travel vouchers -- or drink tickets. It's not uncommon for more people to attend a stag and doe than the wedding itself.
Tina Fetner, a sociology professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, said the stag and doe was reflective of the general culture of the region: "Here in Ontario we have a very robust culture of sports teams having fund-raisers every year to support the teams," she said. Alas, why not apply the same method to a wedding?
Stag and does are "something I've always known since I was little," said Mikaela Woods, a 28-year-old business owner in Smithville. One of her earliest memories, she said, was of being at her mother and stepfather's stag and doe: "I remember my mom being hung over the next day," she said with a laugh.
So naturally, as Ms. Woods and her fiancé, Benjamin Blake, a 28-year-old data analyst, plan their April 2024 wedding in Mexico, a stag and doe seemed like a no-brainer; they held theirs on New Year's Eve at the fairgrounds in Binbrooke, a village in a rural section of Hamilton.
The raffle prize was intended to be a draw for party goers. The couple recently closed on a condo in Mexico that they intend to rent out as an Airbnb. "'Let's use it to our advantage"' Ms. Woods thought, "and have our grand prize as one week free in the Airbnb and $ 500 in flight credit," she said. "Hopefully that's enticing enough for lots of people to come."
In the end, about 200 people attended, and the couple raised 10,000 Canadian dollars (almost $ 7,500).
Part of the charm of the stag and does is the small town-ness of it all. "A lot of my friends who haven't grown up in small towns or rural communities don't seem to be as aware of them," said Stephanie Kirkham, 30. "Basically, it's people coming together to donate money toward and celebrate the couple because weddings are expensive."
Ms. Kirkham, a teacher, and Jeremy Bell, a 38-year-old who works in heavy equipment sales and services, held their event on New Year's Eve in Perth, where they live, and took donations at the door instead of charging an admission fee. They had a guest list in advance; more often, couples will post invitations on Facebook making the event fairly open to anyone who wants to pay.
Games -- especially one called "toonie toss" -- are a mainstay at many stag and does, said Emily Desjardins, 23, who held her party last month with her fiancé, Brandon Kelly. They featured toonie toss at the event. Here's how it generally works: A bottle of liquor is placed in the middle of the dance floor, and guests take their "toonies" (two-dollar coins) and try to slide them as close to the bottle as possible.
"Whoever has the toonie closest to the bottle gets to keep it, and we get to keep the toonies for our wedding," explained Ms. Desjardins, who works in human resources and lives in Newington. "It's very Canadian," she added.
Other games can include beer pong tournaments, a bra toss -- where you throw balls into the cups of bras nailed onto a board -- and a very specific game that involves toilet plungers, paint and sandpaper.
One other advantage to hosting a stag and doe: It's a way to celebrate with people who can't make it to the wedding.
This was part of the appeal for Ms. Woods and Mr. Blake, whose destination wedding limits the guest list. "We are just going to have a small wedding, maybe maximum 50 people in Mexico," Ms. Woods said. With the stag and doe, even people not attending could still party together.
But it wouldn't be a wedding event without a little grousing and resentment. "We always joke that one day I am going to pretend to get married because you don't get any bang for your buck or there is no return for you" as an unmarried person, said Robert Cannone, an educator in Vaughan who is a frequent guest at such shindigs.
And there is also a sense of duty. "You have to go," said Steven Ferracane, a teacher in Woodbridge. "If it's a brother-in-law or a close friend, you are obligated."
Nick D'Urzo, who works in road building in Toronto who estimated he goes to 15 stag parties a year (sometimes they are single-sex but still fund-raising), said he genuinely enjoyed the parties he attended. "I always seem to bump into someone who I haven't seen in years, and it makes it worthwhile," he said.
Another part of the appeal, Ms. Kirkham said, is that stag and doe parties are simply something to do. Small towns "don't have a nightlife, we don't have these big places," she said. "So what better time to find a little hall that we can rent and have a D.J. so that people can come out and do something?"
Photograph A raffle at Mikaela Woods and Benjamin Blake's stag and doe party on New Year's Eve in Hamilton, Ontario. The grand prize was one week at their condo in Mexico and $ 500 in flight credit. Left, playing beer pong at Mikaela Woods and Benjamin Blake's stag and doe party in Hamilton, Ontario. Below left, a raffle offered a chance at a week at a condo in Mexico and $ 500 in flight credit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN WILLMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST14.

Subject: Weddings; New year; Rural areas; Marriage

Location: Mexico

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/style/stag-doe-parties-ontario-canada.html

Title: Engagement Parties That Carry a Cover Charge:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

column: Field Notes

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767531004

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/engagement-parties-that-carry-cover-charge/docview/2767531004/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01 -22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

1970s Idealism Gets A Dose of Livability: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Mckeough, Tim

Publication info: Mckeough, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/1970s-idealism-gets-dose-livability/docview/2767531002/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The house in Sonoma County, designed by a notable modernist architect, needed someone with vision -- and the willingness to do a lot of work.
Joanne Koch wasn't really looking for a second home. Like many people, she browsed real estate listings for entertainment, perusing beautiful places and dreaming a little.
"I just loved seeing what was on the market," said Ms. Koch, 59, the principal of Koch Architects, in Berkeley, Calif. "I was always looking at rural properties on Redfin, surfing without even knowing why."
Then one day in 2017, an online wave carried her to a listing she couldn't ignore: a 1,200-square-foot modernist house built in 1974 in the Sea Ranch, a community in Sonoma County, about 110 miles north of Berkeley. Perched on a sloped lot of just under half an acre, between redwood, bishop pine and grand fir trees, it had been designed by William Turnbull Jr., a prolific architect who died in 1997 and whose work Ms. Koch had long admired.
"My heart jumped," she said. "It was a physical reaction."
She had "always felt a kinship" to Mr. Turnbull's work, she said, particularly the way he took the simple forms of vernacular agricultural buildings and translated them into modern homes.
But the house was already in contract. Ms. Koch studied the photos and moved on, with a vague sense that she had missed a rare opportunity to buy a home that would have been ideal for herself and her partner, Bryan Connell, 73, an artist.
Months later, back on Redfin, Ms. Koch was surprised again: The deal had fallen through and the house was back on the market. Although she had no real estate agent or financing in place, she called the listing agent and made plans to see it.
"It was better than I imagined," she said. "I'll never forget the moment I walked in, underneath the suspended catwalk and into the two-story atrium, and the view down the ravine to the ocean. It had all these wonderful qualities of good architecture. I scrambled to put things in place to buy it, because I knew if another architect saw it, it would be gone."
She succeeded and closed on the house for $ 570,000 in February 2018, well aware that it had many problems. The septic system needed to be replaced. The structure was in need of waterproofing around the foundation, including a new French drain to eliminate standing water in the crawl space. A planned exterior deck had never been completed, so four sets of sliding-glass doors opened to a treacherous drop. The heating system, powered by a diesel furnace that rumbled like a tractor, also had to go.
As Ms. Koch studied the house more closely, she admired Mr. Turnbull's design decisions, but also saw room for improvement. The two bedrooms, for instance, were separated by a diagonal wall. "In the '70s, the diagonal was very popular," she said. "But the bedrooms were sliced in this awkward way, such that there was no possible way to furnish them."
The two sleeping lofts were also dark, with tiny windows that offered no views. "I think this was because it was built with a very lean budget initially," Ms. Koch said.
She planned to straighten out the bedroom wall and add a few new windows that mimicked the proportions of the ones Mr. Turnbull had originally installed. "I found opportunities that I thought had been missed in the initial design," she said.
Intent on preserving the character of the home, she had her contractors gingerly deconstruct the diagonal wall and reuse the boards in one of the new bedrooms. There wasn't enough material for the second bedroom, and Ms. Koch was unsure about what type of wood it was, so she took a piece to Healdsburg Lumber Company, a local building supply store.
"I found this guy who was like the lumber whisperer," she said. "He smelled it and said, 'This is sugar pine.' We ordered exactly the same material."
For now, the new sugar pine is lighter in color than the older boards, but it will darken over time. To trim the new windows outside, she bought reclaimed redwood siding from the Lumber Baron, another building supply company, that matches the original siding.
Aside from replacing the diesel furnace with a radiant heating system powered by a propane boiler, Ms. Koch added a propane fireplace in the living room with a raised hearth that doubles as a bench. She removed the existing kitchen and reused the cabinets in a laundry room on the lower level. Then she built a new kitchen, equipping it with moss-green and gray cabinets from Premier EuroCase and a free-standing stainless steel work table from John Boos & Co. that she had powder-coated in matte black.
In all, the work took about a year to complete, at a cost of about $ 375 a square foot. Since the contractors wrapped up at the end of 2019, Ms. Koch and Mr. Connell have been amazed by the peace that surrounds them when they're able to escape from Berkeley.
"It's so quiet," Ms. Koch said. "The loudest sound is the raven screeching from a nearby tree."
For now, they rent the house on Airbnb when they're not using it, to recoup some of their costs. "The long-term plan is to be there half the time -- or possibly full-time -- in the next five to 10 years," Ms. Koch said. "Being in that space, and being in that world, is a reminder of how little you really need to live well."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Left, the architect Joanne Koch and her partner, Bryan Connell, renovated a 1974 house, top, designed by William Turnbull Jr., adding a raised hearth in the living room, far left, and a new kitchen. The bedrooms and sleeping lofts, above, received new windows. Below left, the entrance is a two-story atrium with a catwalk that connects two sleeping lofts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PRESTON GANNAWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JOE FLETCHER) This article appeared in print on page RE8.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Modernism; Architects

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Architects

Location: United States--US; Sonoma County California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/10/realestate/cabin-sonoma-county-ca.html

Title: 1970s Idealism Gets A Dose of Livability:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

column: On Location

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767531002

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/1970s-idealism-gets-dose-livability/docview/2767531002/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-22

Database: Global Newsstr eam Collection

____________________________________________________________

Going With the Herd, but Sometimes in the Lead: [Style Desk]

Author: Cornwell, Betsy

Publication info: Cornwell, Betsy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/going-with-herd-sometimes-lead/docview/2767530969/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A single mother, alone with a toddler in a foreign country, finds community during Covid -- and then creates one for others.
My ex was a bad husband but a good horse trainer. When we met, he had just bought a pony for 50 euros that the seller swore was unbreakable. Three months later, he sold it for 10 times that price as a child's Christmas present.
He was kinder to horses than he was to me. He had better luck training them, too. His attempts to break me were easy to brush off at first, but they grew more forceful after our son was born. On our baby's first birthday, he told me that if I didn't obey him, he would have me deported back to America and keep our son in Ireland.
I reacted the way any threatened animal mother would: I took my baby and ran.
After a brief brush with homelessness, we moved to a rural cottage I could barely afford even with multiple jobs. In a field across the road was a skinny dun mare, her mane falling out and her hide raw where she had bitten off her own fur. You could always see the whites of her eyes.
One of the many things my ex taught me about horses is that a horse kept alone in a field will never thrive. It won't sleep, will go off its feed, will even start pulling out its own hair. But if you put any other herd animal in with it (doesn't have to be another horse -- could be a sheep, goat or donkey), they'll get on fine.
That's because in a herd, animals take turns being the lookout. One animal keeps watch while the others rest and eat. A herd animal by itself, or alone with its baby, is always watching for danger; it won't lower its head long enough to eat much or feel safe enough to sleep deeply.
I felt for that horse. I felt like her, too.
I didn't know my neighbors -- and after learning to fear my spouse, I had become afraid of everyone else, too. I kept my door locked and curtains drawn. Even after the long days of working single parenthood were done and my child was in bed, I watched the windows for unexpected shadows, predator eyes.
I had a safety order, the Irish version of a restraining order, but my animal brain knew that wasn't the same as real safety. I barely ate and I slept fitfully, half my brain alert for danger. Congratulations on my weight loss made me want to scream.
By then it was April 2020, and Ireland was enduring the longest lockdown in Europe. I might have been alone with a toddler, but everyone else was alone in their fields, too. Logging on for Zoom reunions with family and friends I hadn't caught up with in years, I felt less isolated than I had before lockdown. Apart from the creeping sense of Covid doom, I kind of didn't want it to end.
It was in that disembodied space that I felt safe enough to start opening up to people again. Online I talked about my grief over my divorce, the hardships of single parenting, my financial struggles. I lived in fear of eviction and of separation from my child if my ex were to succeed in having me deported. Online, I didn't have to explain my weight loss or the way I kept flinching at unexpected touch.
I connected with people who had been through similar things, but more important, I learned how many people are willing to reach out in kindness just for the sake of it. College friends from the States crowd-funded my rent and grocery money one month when I couldn't make it; they paid for my parental visa application, too.
Old friends from every era of my life -- as well as people I had never met -- reached out to help me survive. Their generosity revived my faith in myself and in others and helped me imagine a better future -- one where I might be able to offer that same help to other single parents who felt alone in their fields.
At night, when my baby or my anxiety woke me, I soothed myself to sleep by reading real estate listings, dreaming of a home not just for us but for other single parents, a childcare-inclusive residency space where we could take turns being the lookout. I longed to give other single parents the thing I most needed myself: a respite from the hyper vigilance of loneliness.
One sleepless night, I found a place that I thought could work, an old knitting factory on Ireland's west coast, priced low because it had been on the market for years. The seller agreed to a rent-to-own scheme but said I needed to give him a whole year's rent up front.
I barely had one month's worth. I got ready for bed that night full of longing that was close to despair. But I told my online communities about my idea and did something they had with their love taught me to do -- I asked for help. Then I went to sleep.
When I woke, I found that a herd of friends and strangers had kept watch over my son and me while we slept. There was several months' rent funded already, and within days the whole year was covered.
After my baby and I moved in, I spent the next two years crowdfunding the knitting factory's purchase and renovating it to receive guests. I hacked through brambles, erected fencing, scrubbed musty old walls, cleared away cobwebs. And every day I talked online about my dream of a family home that could care for other families, and more strangers and friends joined in support.
I finally closed on the building in spring 2022, having raised the entire purchase price. My herd had kept my baby and me safe, and it was time for me to offer that safety to someone else.
Last summer, I hosted my first single mother resident, a remarkable woman named Tawasul who came to Ireland as a refugee from Sudan with her two young children. In the knitting factory's sunny kitchen, we shared strong Irish tea and cardamom-spiced Sudanese coffee while we talked about domestic abuse and immigration and the strange sadness of watching your children grow up in a different culture.
To fund the residencies, I also began to offer the space on Airbnb. A few years ago, locking the door every night against my ex-husband and neighbors alike, I never could have fathomed being brave enough to share my home with strangers.
But the funny thing is, those strangers have made me feel safer. The backpackers who stay up late keep a vigil without even knowing it. The retirees who wake up early for the ferry take the morning shift. I barely talk with most of them, but their presence helps me breathe easier because I know there would be witnesses if my ex did show, especially now that my safety order has expired. But really, the feeling of safety I get is more primal.
I used to fantasize about putting a sheep or donkey in the field across from my rented cottage to keep that dun mare company. I settled for visiting her myself when I could, picking long grass for her, letting my baby pet her rough velvet nose. Often, she would nod off while we sat there.
A few weeks before we left for the knitting factory, I saw another horse with her. They didn't bond right away, mostly remaining in their field's opposite corners. But by moving day, the mare's fur was already growing back in.
It's not like every person who stays at the knitting factory is a kindred spirit either. But their presence soothes my animal body in a more profound way than I ever expected.
Since we bought the house, I have started getting to know my neighbors, too. It took me those two years to get brave enough, but the rewards of that bravery are many: My son runs to greet his classmates at the playground, and I share custody of a sweet gray cat with the couple across the road.
And last week, an elderly neighbor brought us an unexpected gift: a goat.
I thanked him but thought, "Oh god, what am I going to do with her?" Or rather, them: I knew that I would have to get her a friend.
Until our goat's companion came, my son and I stayed outside with her for hours, feeding her porridge oats, stroking her while she regarded us with her mild letterbox eyes. "I'm sorry we're not goats," I wanted to say. "But I promise -- we're herd animals too."
Betsy Cornwell, founder of The Old Knitting Factory in County Galway, Ireland, is the author of the young adult novel, "Reader, I Murdered Him."
Modern Love can be reached at modernlove@nytimes.com.
To find previous Modern Love essays, Tiny Love Stories and podcast episodes, visit our archive.
Want more from Modern Love? Watch the TV series; sign up for the newsletter; or listen to the podcast on iTunes, Spotify or Google Play. We also have swag at the NYT Store and two books, "Modern Love: True Stories of Love, Loss, and Redemption" and "Tiny Love Stories: True Tales of Love in 100 Words or Less."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST6.

Subject: Sleep; Sons; Single parents

Location: Ireland

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/style/modern-love-domestic-abuse-ireland-help-from-my-herd.html

Title: Going With the Herd, but Sometimes in the Lead:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

column: Modern Love

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767530969

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/going-with-herd-sometimes-lead/docview/2767530969/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In California, He Kept Dreaming of New York: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Gibson, D W

Publication info: Gibson, D W. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-he-kept-dreaming-new-york/docview/2767530962/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Julian Abeleda was optimistic when he left California, but he had a hard landing in Manhattan. A TikTok video about a housing lottery made him think, "Let's just try."
Julian Abeleda was tired of feeling scared. It was the summer of 2021, everything had gone wrong and it was time to take a risk.
He had quit his job after discovering the person he was training made more money than he did, and a fight with a roommate prompted him to move back in with his parents. "I was very depressed," he said. "I didn't know where I was going with my life and I pretty much hit rock bottom."
He was in Sacramento, living in the same area where he'd been all his life. But he had another place in mind. "I always dreamed of going to New York," he said. "I storyboarded it on a whiteboard but never really made that push because I was scared of taking risks -- until it couldn't get any worse. I was already depressed and broke. So why not?"
He bought a one-way plane ticket and arrived in New York on Oct. 1, 2021. He didn't have a job lined up and came with only $ 7,000 in savings, $ 3,000 of which immediately went to a short-term Airbnb rental.
"My game plan was to survive," he said, laughing. "It was a pretty impulsive move to go to New York during a pandemic. I had enough money to stay for a few months, and I was determined that I was going to make it work because I didn't want to live the rest of my life with regret."
With experience as a specialized data analyst, he sought out every job for which he was qualified and busied himself with online courses to gain more professional certifications.
Soon, he started getting interviews. "It was a thrilling experience because I knew I was competing with some of the smartest people in the world in New York," he said.
But any offers -- or even follow-up interviews -- remained elusive, and his time in the Airbnb was running short. "I'm not going to lie, I did get scared a couple of times, I did cry a couple of times," he said. "But I realized everyone does that every now and then. When I realized that, the shame was gone. And once the shame was gone, momentum started to build up."
In November 2021, he landed an interview with PwC, an audit and tax services firm, and by the end of the month, the company offered him a job. "When I saw the email," he recalled, "I remember looking up at the moon and across the landscape of New York and thinking, 'I belong here. I made it.' That is a feeling no one can take away from you."
He found an apartment in Harlem and was excited about living in the neighborhood. The place looked decent online and during a brief visit, but once he settled in, it proved to be a hard space to live in. There were cockroaches to welcome him on the first night and, as he soon discovered, a host of persistent maintenance issues, including a shower that worked only intermittently. Package deliveries routinely went missing, and there was no air-conditioning to get him through the summer.
He needed another place but doubted he'd be able to find anything better in his price range of $ 2,000 to $ 2,600. Then he saw a TikTok video alerting him to NYC Housing Connect, a city-run online portal for connecting low- and middle-income renters with affordable housing through open lotteries. According to The City, a review of 18 million applications between January 2014 and March 2019 revealed that for every unit designated for income-restricted lotteries, there were, on average, 314 eligible applicants.
"Everyone told me that a lottery would never work, it'd take years," he said, "but I thought what do I have to lose? Let's just try."
Julian Abeleda, 29
Occupation: Data Analyst
On finding community: For Mr. Abeleda, whose parents both moved to the United States from the Philippines as teenagers, it didn't take long to connect with a Filipino community in New York. "I made one Filipino friend, and they introduced me to an entire community that welcomed me with open arms," he said. "I made a lot of friends that helped me when I had nothing."
On eating in the neighborhood: "I love the neighborhood," Mr. Abeleda said. His favorite haunts include Roberta's for pizza and Mission Sandwich Social. "Also," he added, "Trader Joe's has been so clutch."
Mr. Abeleda applied to the lottery in April 2022. Three months later he was notified that he'd been selected for a studio at One South First, a development in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, with just over a quarter of its units reserved for low- and middle-income- residents. He moved in on Sept. 16 of last year. "Moving in was a breathtaking experience," he said. "I saw the view on the balcony and immediately started texting my mom."
There are plenty of thrilling features in the unit itself -- the washer and dryer, the dishwasher, the AC unit -- but there are other things about the building as a whole that really won him over. Mr. Abeleda said that maintenance reliably responds to requests within an hour and the concierge desk makes sure he gets all of his packages. "I'm never going to take this building for granted," he said. "I use all the amenities."
There's a movie screening room in the basement for his "House of the Dragon" group viewings on Sunday nights and a pool on the sun deck for the warmer months; a work-from-home lounge and three private conference rooms. Most importantly for Mr. Abeleda, there's a sense of community. His neighbors not only say hello but some extended invitations for Thanksgiving last fall.
"I've met some of the brightest individuals in the building," he said. "It's a pretty smart and compassionate community. People from all over the world. There's something about the building that's special, something about the space that makes people want to come together. I've never felt so included."
Residents in the building are encouraged to join a WhatsApp group chat, which spawns many interest-driven spinoffs. Mr. Abeleda joined one group that led him to a chess club that meets in the resident lounge. From there, he was a bit taken aback when he got an invitation to play polo. "At first I thought he was talking about water polo, but, no, he was talking about horse polo," he said, laughing. "I've never played that in my life."
His new apartment makes New York -- once a vision on a whiteboard -- feel like a home. "I came with absolutely nothing and now I'm here. I want more people to feel empowered to go get an opportunity, to take a risk." For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
Top, Julian Abeleda in the resident lounge of One South First, and, above, his unit's kitchen. Since moving in, he has established the New York life he dreamed of back in Sacramento. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHERINE MARKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE4.

Subject: Housing; Neighborhoods; Lotteries; Low income groups; Tax services; Polo

Business indexing term: Subject: Tax services

Location: California; New York; United States--US; Sacramento California

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/16/realestate/renters-brooklyn-williamsburg.html

Title: In California, He Kept Dreaming of New York:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

column: Renters

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767530962

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-he-kept-dreaming-new-york/docview/2767530962/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Slowly, a Life Built on Strength Unraveled: [Correction]

Author: Leland, John

Publication info: Leland, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slowly-life-built-on-strength-unraveled/docview/2767527391/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Rebecca Lorch found purpose in brutal workouts and competitive weight lifting. In the end, it was not enough.
Rebecca Lorch was a champion strongwoman, winner of the America's Strongest Woman competition in her weight class in 2020. She had a master's degree in nutrition counseling, a roster of training clients and a romantic history with her coach, one of the top names in their sport. She had a rescue pit bull mix named Bella that had its own Instagram account.
"That dog was her life," her mother said.
On Dec. 18, 2022, while her mother and stepfather were out celebrating the first night of Hanukkah, Ms. Lorch deleted her social media accounts, removed her face piercings and ended her life. She was 32.
In the close subculture of strongmen and strongwomen, her suicide came as a shock, even among those who knew her well. Just two days earlier, she had posted a video of herself triumphantly pressing a tremendous barbell over her head, announcing that she was in a "happy place."
"Everything seemed to be going in the right direction for her," said C.J. Krause, a friend and fellow competitor who said he talked with Ms. Lorch regularly about her mental health. "She had a lot of people around her who cared for her. But it only takes one bad day."
The reasons for a suicide are rarely clear or simple. But Ms. Lorch's friends pointed the finger at her coach and their romantic relationship. Many sports bodies prohibit intimate relationships between coaches and athletes because of the inherent power imbalance and potential for exploitation, though the main strongman organizations do not. Within days of Ms. Lorch's death, a friend and fellow strongman started a #JusticeForRebecca campaign on social media.
Strongman competition, which often goes by that name even when the athletes are women, is commonly lumped together with powerlifting, but the two disciplines are different. Powerlifting looks like something you can see in any gym, only with exponentially heavier weights. Strongman is something else. Strongman athletes carry 200-pound stones over distances and heave sandbags over a bar; they pull trucks and dead-lift automobiles.
For many, the pain and discipline function as emotional therapy.
"We talk about being the misfits," said Jackie Zagrans, a competitive strongwoman and friend of Ms. Lorch who works as a family therapist specializing in trauma. "We're not the sleek, wealthy CrossFitters; we're not the technique-savvy Olympic lifters. We've got tattoos head to toe. We're a bunch of misfit toys. And the strongman community has always liked it that way.
"But what does that draw? That draws people who have troubles. That draws people who have experienced trauma. That draws people who have never felt like they fit in. They finally find this sport and they're like, 'Oh, this is what I've been looking for."'
Rebecca Anne Lorch discovered the sport after a devastating injury during college, and it became her world.
Growing up in Mesquite, Tex., in the 1990s, she was the kind of child for whom things came easily, said her older brother, Jeremy. She was a girl scout and a straight-A student who once broke down in tears when she got a B on a test. "Everything she did, she was great at," her brother said.
Even then, she was drawn to high-intensity experiences. She played full-contact football on a team that was almost all boys. The day she got her gear, she invited Jeremy to tackle her. He ran full-tilt across the yard and flattened her. "I thought that would be the end of it," her mother, Susan Steiner, said. "But she got up laughing and said, 'Do it again."'
At Adelphi University on Long Island, Ms. Lorch majored in theater and joined the Tri Delta sorority. Lauren Callen, her best friend from the theater program, said Ms. Lorch enjoyed the stage because she could become someone else.
"She was sassy and strong," Ms. Callen said. "Nothing brought her down. She was almost like a slab of concrete. You can throw it and throw it and throw it, but it's never going to break." Ms. Lorch gave that strength to her friends, Ms. Callen said. "When I was in really deep trouble, she would stop everything. Nothing else mattered except what I needed."
But just before graduation, Ms. Lorch shattered her leg in a motorcycle accident. Doctors told her she might never walk normally again or even bend her knee. She worked intensely at her rehabilitation and became interested in nutrition, returning to school for her master's degree from Montclair State University.
The gym was a place where she defied limitations. Instead of submitting to her doctors' prognoses, she became a competitive powerlifter and, in 2015, competed in her first strongman event.
"Her coming back from her motorcycle accident was defiance, and it was her way of saying, 'I refuse to be anything but strong,"' said Shelby Jones, a friend who works as a strength coach in California. But she added: "Sometimes we miss the nuance of how we're making ourself vulnerable in other ways. Giving yourself permission to be fragile and to defend yourself as a whole person is a lot of work as a woman, and especially as an athlete."
Ms. Lorch advanced quickly as a strongwoman, doubling as a nutrition coach for other athletes. She started training with a New York coach named Alec Pagan.
Working with her new coach, Ms. Lorch soon became one of the top amateurs in the country. His star, too, rose in the sport. Though Mr. Pagan had a girlfriend, he and Ms. Lorch began a sexual relationship.
Coaches, like teachers and psychotherapists, enjoy an unequal power relationship with the athletes in their care. They instill self-worth and motivation and grant approval. But they can also withhold these to serve their own ends. This imbalance "really makes any sort of romance between the two unacceptable," said Lee H. Igel, a clinical professor in the N.Y.U. Tisch Institute for Global Sport and associate in medical ethics at NYU Langone Medical Center.
Mr. Pagan did not respond to requests for an interview, but his lawyer, David D. Lin, said that Mr. Pagan's personal relationship with Ms. Lorch began before he became her coach, "and he never received any payment to coach her, so she was not a traditional 'client."'
Abbie Deal, a strongwoman and Ms. Lorch's friend, got to observe the relationship up close. She and her boyfriend shared an Airbnb rental with the couple at the America's Strongest Man & Woman competition in Savannah, Ga., in 2020.
The two women bonded over "how we were both with men who we sometimes found difficult to deal with," Ms. Deal said, adding that her partner was not abusive.
Even in front of Ms. Lorch, Mr. Pagan would "make comments disparaging the status of their relationship," Ms. Deal said. She recalled his saying that Ms. Lorch was "just some girl he's dating," and that he didn't have her in his "Top 10" of most attractive strongwomen.
Ms. Deal said Mr. Pagan also openly encouraged Ms. Lorch to use more performance-enhancing drugs, which are controlled substances requiring a prescription. "Alec said, 'I can't wait until we can get you on real drugs,"' Ms. Deal said. "Which kind of surprised everybody, because Bec was already on a ton of drugs. More than anybody else I knew at the time."
Drugs are not prohibited in strongman competition, and they are widely used, often without medical supervision. But Mr. Pagan pushed them especially hard, said Tom Sroka, who trained briefly with Mr. Pagan. At one of their first conversations, Mr. Sroka said, Mr. Pagan asked him if he was willing to take enough drugs to grow a new penis.
"When you push back with him, his whole thing is, 'Well, you don't want to be as good as you say you do, because you're not willing to do what is necessary,"' Mr. Sroka said.
Mr. Pagan's lawyer responded, "Mr. Pagan never forced drug protocols."
Like other athletes, Ms. Lorch used the drugs to build muscle and hasten recovery from injury or overwork. But anabolic steroids are also associated with anxiety and major mood disorders, including mania, hypomania and major depression.
Ms. Lorch told friends that Mr. Pagan was having sex with other athletes he coached, even while he was mostly living with her in her Brooklyn apartment, where she said she paid the rent and all the bills.
Mr. Pagan's lawyer acknowledged that Mr. Pagan had a sexual relationship with one other athlete, but he maintained that Mr. Pagan and Ms. Lorch had an open relationship, and that she had consented to his sleeping with other women. He said Mr. Pagan shared in the household expenses.
Ms. Zagrans, the strongwoman and trauma specialist, saw a familiar pattern in Mr. Pagan's conduct and Ms. Lorch's susceptibility.
"The coaches say, 'We believe in you,"' Ms. Zagrans said. "You start to believe that in order to be good enough, you have to do what they say." In Ms. Lorch's case, Ms. Zagrans said, this extended beyond the gym. "Who you hang out with, what you do socially, what you do sexually, what drugs you take. It expands, and you feel very powerless to stand up to someone like Alec, because there is so much fear."
She added: "And women are so especially prone to it because so many of these women have finally found an outlet for their bodies that isn't about what their bodies look like, but it is about what their bodies can do. The idea that 'you'll be nothing without me' is a significant power play."
In July 2021, as Ms. Lorch was preparing for the World's Strongest Woman competition, she tore a biceps muscle during a workout, putting her out of competition for months. She blamed Mr. Pagan for overworking her on a day she needed a lighter load.
He blamed her.
Andrew Hanus, a strongman, was in a car with her when she got a series of messages from Mr. Pagan, one after another. "And she was bawling her eyes out," Mr. Hanus said. "A switch flipped in Alec, and he was just degrading her." After dropping Ms. Lorch at home, Mr. Hanus did not see her for a few hours. "When I did see her again," he said, "unfortunately, she was high as a kite, just laughing at the whole situation."
Posting on Instagram a year later, Ms. Lorch wrote, "It was in that moment that I decided it was time to leave."
Breaking up, though, was hard. She could not compete because of her injury, so she did not have her accustomed outlet for frustration or depression.
"Even her best friends didn't know she was struggling," her mother said. "I did. She dealt with that just like she dealt with everything else in life: quietly, alone for a few days, and then she'd cycle out of it. That was just her mind-set."
By December 2021, she was getting blackout drunk in her Brooklyn apartment and tried to kill herself with pills. She wrote later on Instagram: "My self-worth was so low I couldn't find a slither of a reason to be alive or bear the pain of the massive shame and self-hate I felt from letting someone treat me so bad for so long."
She moved with her dog to her mother's house in Connecticut, where she seemed to be doing better, her mother said. She got a job managing trainers at an Equinox and ran her own nutrition and training business, working 75-hour weeks to pay off the debts she ran up when she was with Mr. Pagan. She was dating a new man and getting her strength back after another injury.
Then in July 2022, she decided to go public about her relationship with Mr. Pagan. In a series of Instagram posts, she accused him of cheating on her with other clients, using her financially and psychologically undermining her: "Stonewalling, gaslighting, communication tactics that would make me feel like my head was running circles in a hamster wheel," she wrote.
Gabi Groszyk, who had dated Mr. Pagan before Ms. Lorch did, saw the Instagram posts and recognized the circumstances. "I went through the same things she did," Ms. Groszyk said in an interview.
Mr. Pagan responded six weeks later, in September 2022, with a letter from his lawyer to Ms. Lorch, denying her charges and threatening to sue her for "the maximum amount of damages permitted by law."
Nothing came of Mr. Pagan's threatened suit. But Ms. Lorch's mood started to darken around this time, her mother said. "She was more cloistered," she said. "She wanted to be around people less. She seemed more stressed. But that could've been the job."
Ms. Lorch became increasingly distraught. She told friends and her mother that she feared Mr. Pagan might come to Connecticut to confront her. "She couldn't get away from him," her mother said. Ms. Lorch took certification classes to buy a handgun and texted a friend, "I feel fine at my moms cause my step dad has guns but I def won't move into my own place until I have my own."
In her last week, she had dinner with her mother on Wednesday and worked out at the gym on Thursday, then cooked dinner for her mother and her stepfather. "She wasn't great," her mother said, "but she was talking, and we had fun." On Friday, after completing a heavy lift at the gym, she posted: "Another few lbs back on the bar. Another happy place. Keep on keepin' on." It was her final post.
"Saturday, she went downhill," Ms. Steiner said. She stayed in bed, saying she did not want to be around people.
Sunday, the first night of Hanukkah, Ms. Steiner went to her son's house nearby, expecting her daughter to arrive later. Instead, Ms. Lorch texted to say she was not coming. Ms. Steiner tried calling and texting but got no answer. Finally, she checked Ms. Lorch's Instagram page to see if she had posted anything. The page had been taken down.
She and her partner arrived home to find Ms. Lorch dead in her bathroom.
It is natural to seek a clean explanation after a suicide. Ms. Lorch was dealing with a relationship she considered abusive and the self-recrimination that came with staying in it for three years. But she also faced the fear of a lawsuit or physical confrontation, the effects of steroids, the double standard applied to female athletes, 75-hour work weeks, chronic pain from past injuries, plus whatever emotional turbulence or depression she carried with her to the gym.
Anthony Fuhrman, a strongman champion who also ran a tournament, said he bonded with Ms. Lorch over their respective traumas, and they became like brother and sister. After she died, he posted on Instagram about his own suicidal thoughts, saying, "Rebecca Lorch saved my life." With her death, he sold his interest in the tournament and started the #JusticeForRebecca campaign. "She touched a lot of lives," he said.
"A lot of times this sport does attract people who are already searching for something," Mr. Fuhrman said. "It attracts people because it is a community, and it's about empowering, it's about getting strong. It attracts broken souls. When you throw drugs on top of those broken souls like myself, it compounds the issues."
United States Strongman is now developing a formal policy regarding harassment and sexual conduct, said William Wessels, the president and owner. He said the organization has banned three male athletes since 2020.
Ms. Steiner searched her daughter's phone and computer for answers but found nothing that might have set her off. Ms. Lorch's final text was to a friend, making plans for the following week. "I never in a million years thought she -- " Ms. Steiner said, her voice trailing off.
"We think this was a very sudden thought process," she said, finally. "She just suddenly said, 'That's it,' and because of her personality, she just did it."
If you are having thoughts of suicide, call or text 988 to reach the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources.
If you are having thoughts of suicide, call or text 988 to reach the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources.
Photograph Above, Rebecca Lorch competing in a strongwoman competition in March 2022. Left, Ms. Lorch's mother, Susan Steiner, and brother, Jeremy Lorch, with Ms. Lorch's dog, Bella, this month. Ms. Lorch died by suicide in December. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MURPHY; DESIREE RIOS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1); Top, Rebecca Lorch during a strongman/strongwoman competition in April 2022. Above, clockwise from bottom left, Abbie Deal, Tyler Perdue, Alec Pagan and Ms. Lorch. For a time, Mr. Pagan trained Ms. Lorch and they had a romantic relationship. But Mr. Pagan disparaged Ms. Lorch in front of others, Ms. Deal said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONDRA WELLS; ABBIE DEALA) (MB4) This article appeared in print on page MB1, MB4.

Subject: Athletes; Mental health; Weightlifting; Suicides & suicide attempts; Drugs & sports; Coaches & managers; Women; Steroids; Personal relationships

Title: Slowly, a Life Built on Strength Unraveled:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767527391

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slowly-life-built-on-strength-unraveled/docview/2767527391/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Slowly, a Life Built on Strength Unraveled: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Leland, John

Publication info: Leland, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slowly-life-built-on-strength-unraveled/docview/2767374155/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Rebecca Lorch found purpose in brutal workouts and competitive weight lifting. In the end, it was not enough.
Rebecca Lorch was a champion strongwoman, winner of the America's Strongest Woman competition in her weight class in 2020. She had a master's degree in nutrition counseling, a roster of training clients and a romantic history with her coach, one of the top names in their sport. She had a rescue pit bull mix named Bella that had its own Instagram account.
"That dog was her life," her mother said.
On Dec. 18, 2022, while her mother and stepfather were out celebrating the first night of Hanukkah, Ms. Lorch deleted her social media accounts, removed her face piercings and ended her life. She was 32.
In the close subculture of strongmen and strongwomen, her suicide came as a shock, even among those who knew her well. Just two days earlier, she had posted a video of herself triumphantly pressing a tremendous barbell over her head, announcing that she was in a "happy place."
"Everything seemed to be going in the right direction for her," said C.J. Krause, a friend and fellow competitor who said he talked with Ms. Lorch regularly about her mental health. "She had a lot of people around her who cared for her. But it only takes one bad day."
The reasons for a suicide are rarely clear or simple. But Ms. Lorch's friends pointed the finger at her coach and their romantic relationship. Many sports bodies prohibit intimate relationships between coaches and athletes because of the inherent power imbalance and potential for exploitation, though the main strongman organizations do not. Within days of Ms. Lorch's death, a friend and fellow strongman started a #JusticeForRebecca campaign on social media.
Strongman competition, which often goes by that name even when the athletes are women, is commonly lumped together with powerlifting, but the two disciplines are different. Powerlifting looks like something you can see in any gym, only with exponentially heavier weights. Strongman is something else. Strongman athletes carry 200-pound stones over distances and heave sandbags over a bar; they pull trucks and dead-lift automobiles.
For many, the pain and discipline function as emotional therapy.
"We talk about being the misfits," said Jackie Zagrans, a competitive strongwoman and friend of Ms. Lorch who works as a family therapist specializing in trauma. "We're not the sleek, wealthy CrossFitters; we're not the technique-savvy Olympic lifters. We've got tattoos head to toe. We're a bunch of misfit toys. And the strongman community has always liked it that way.
"But what does that draw? That draws people who have troubles. That draws people who have experienced trauma. That draws people who have never felt like they fit in. They finally find this sport and they're like, 'Oh, this is what I've been looking for."'
Rebecca Anne Lorch discovered the sport after a devastating injury during college, and it became her world.
Growing up in Mesquite, Tex., in the 1990s, she was the kind of child for whom things came easily, said her older brother, Jeremy. She was a girl scout and a straight-A student who once broke down in tears when she got a B on a test. "Everything she did, she was great at," her brother said.
Even then, she was drawn to high-intensity experiences. She played full-contact football on a team that was almost all boys. The day she got her gear, she invited Jeremy to tackle her. He ran full-tilt across the yard and flattened her. "I thought that would be the end of it," her mother, Susan Steiner, said. "But she got up laughing and said, 'Do it again."'
At Adelphi University on Long Island, Ms. Lorch majored in theater and joined the Tri Delta sorority. Lauren Callen, her best friend from the theater program, said Ms. Lorch enjoyed the stage because she could become someone else.
"She was sassy and strong," Ms. Callen said. "Nothing brought her down. She was almost like a slab of concrete. You can throw it and throw it and throw it, but it's never going to break." Ms. Lorch gave that strength to her friends, Ms. Callen said. "When I was in really deep trouble, she would stop everything. Nothing else mattered except what I needed."
But just before graduation, Ms. Lorch shattered her leg in a motorcycle accident. Doctors told her she might never walk normally again or even bend her knee. She worked intensely at her rehabilitation and became interested in nutrition, returning to school for her master's degree from Montclair State University.
The gym was a place where she defied limitations. Instead of submitting to her doctors' prognoses, she became a competitive powerlifter and, in 2015, competed in her first strongman event.
"Her coming back from her motorcycle accident was defiance, and it was her way of saying, 'I refuse to be anything but strong,"' said Shelby Jones, a friend who works as a strength coach in California. But she added: "Sometimes we miss the nuance of how we're making ourself vulnerable in other ways. Giving yourself permission to be fragile and to defend yourself as a whole person is a lot of work as a woman, and especially as an athlete."
Ms. Lorch advanced quickly as a strongwoman, doubling as a nutrition coach for other athletes. She started training with a New York coach named Alec Pagan.
Working with her new coach, Ms. Lorch soon became one of the top amateurs in the country. His star, too, rose in the sport. Though Mr. Pagan had a girlfriend, he and Ms. Lorch began a sexual relationship.
Coaches, like teachers and psychotherapists, enjoy an unequal power relationship with the athletes in their care. They instill self-worth and motivation and grant approval. But they can also withhold these to serve their own ends. This imbalance "really makes any sort of romance between the two unacceptable," said Lee H. Igel, a clinical professor in the N.Y.U. Tisch Institute for Global Sport and associate in medical ethics at NYU Langone Medical Center.
Mr. Pagan did not respond to requests for an interview, but his lawyer, David D. Lin, said that Mr. Pagan's personal relationship with Ms. Lorch began before he became her coach, "and he never received any payment to coach her, so she was not a traditional 'client."'
Abbie Deal, a strongwoman and Ms. Lorch's friend, got to observe the relationship up close. She and her boyfriend shared an Airbnb rental with the couple at the America's Strongest Man & Woman competition in Savannah, Ga., in 2020.
The two women bonded over "how we were both with men who we sometimes found difficult to deal with," Ms. Deal said, adding that her partner was not abusive.
Even in front of Ms. Lorch, Mr. Pagan would "make comments disparaging the status of their relationship," Ms. Deal said. She recalled his saying that Ms. Lorch was "just some girl he's dating," and that he didn't have her in his "Top 10" of most attractive strongwomen.
Ms. Deal said Mr. Pagan also openly encouraged Ms. Lorch to use more performance-enhancing drugs, which are controlled substances requiring a prescription. "Alec said, 'I can't wait until we can get you on real drugs,"' Ms. Deal said. "Which kind of surprised everybody, because Bec was already on a ton of drugs. More than anybody else I knew at the time."
Drugs are not prohibited in strongman competition, and they are widely used, often without medical supervision. But Mr. Pagan pushed them especially hard, said Tom Sroka, who trained briefly with Mr. Pagan. At one of their first conversations, Mr. Sroka said, Mr. Pagan asked him if he was willing to take enough drugs to grow a new penis.
"When you push back with him, his whole thing is, 'Well, you don't want to be as good as you say you do, because you're not willing to do what is necessary,"' Mr. Sroka said.
Mr. Pagan's lawyer responded, "Mr. Pagan never forced drug protocols."
Like other athletes, Ms. Lorch used the drugs to build muscle and hasten recovery from injury or overwork. But anabolic steroids are also associated with anxiety and major mood disorders, including mania, hypomania and major depression.
Ms. Lorch told friends that Mr. Pagan was having sex with other athletes he coached, even while he was mostly living with her in her Brooklyn apartment, where she said she paid the rent and all the bills.
Mr. Pagan's lawyer acknowledged that Mr. Pagan had a sexual relationship with one other athlete, but he maintained that Mr. Pagan and Ms. Lorch had an open relationship, and that she had consented to his sleeping with other women. He said Mr. Pagan shared in the household expenses.
Ms. Zagrans, the strongwoman and trauma specialist, saw a familiar pattern in Mr. Pagan's conduct and Ms. Lorch's susceptibility.
"The coaches say, 'We believe in you,"' Ms. Zagrans said. "You start to believe that in order to be good enough, you have to do what they say." In Ms. Lorch's case, Ms. Zagrans said, this extended beyond the gym. "Who you hang out with, what you do socially, what you do sexually, what drugs you take. It expands, and you feel very powerless to stand up to someone like Alec, because there is so much fear."
She added: "And women are so especially prone to it because so many of these women have finally found an outlet for their bodies that isn't about what their bodies look like, but it is about what their bodies can do. The idea that 'you'll be nothing without me' is a significant power play."
In July 2021, as Ms. Lorch was preparing for the World's Strongest Woman competition, she tore a biceps muscle during a workout, putting her out of competition for months. She blamed Mr. Pagan for overworking her on a day she needed a lighter load.
He blamed her.
Andrew Hanus, a strongman, was in a car with her when she got a series of messages from Mr. Pagan, one after another. "And she was bawling her eyes out," Mr. Hanus said. "A switch flipped in Alec, and he was just degrading her." After dropping Ms. Lorch at home, Mr. Hanus did not see her for a few hours. "When I did see her again," he said, "unfortunately, she was high as a kite, just laughing at the whole situation."
Posting on Instagram a year later, Ms. Lorch wrote, "It was in that moment that I decided it was time to leave."
Breaking up, though, was hard. She could not compete because of her injury, so she did not have her accustomed outlet for frustration or depression.
"Even her best friends didn't know she was struggling," her mother said. "I did. She dealt with that just like she dealt with everything else in life: quietly, alone for a few days, and then she'd cycle out of it. That was just her mind-set."
By December 2021, she was getting blackout drunk in her Brooklyn apartment and tried to kill herself with pills. She wrote later on Instagram: "My self-worth was so low I couldn't find a slither of a reason to be alive or bear the pain of the massive shame and self-hate I felt from letting someone treat me so bad for so long."
She moved with her dog to her mother's house in Connecticut, where she seemed to be doing better, her mother said. She got a job managing trainers at an Equinox and ran her own nutrition and training business, working 75-hour weeks to pay off the debts she ran up when she was with Mr. Pagan. She was dating a new man and getting her strength back after another injury.
Then in July 2022, she decided to go public about her relationship with Mr. Pagan. In a series of Instagram posts, she accused him of cheating on her with other clients, using her financially and psychologically undermining her: "Stonewalling, gaslighting, communication tactics that would make me feel like my head was running circles in a hamster wheel," she wrote.
Gabi Groszyk, who had dated Mr. Pagan before Ms. Lorch did, saw the Instagram posts and recognized the circumstances. "I went through the same things she did," Ms. Groszyk said in an interview.
Mr. Pagan responded six weeks later, in September 2022, with a letter from his lawyer to Ms. Lorch, denying her charges and threatening to sue her for "the maximum amount of damages permitted by law."
Nothing came of Mr. Pagan's threatened suit. But Ms. Lorch's mood started to darken around this time, her mother said. "She was more cloistered," she said. "She wanted to be around people less. She seemed more stressed. But that could've been the job."
Ms. Lorch became increasingly distraught. She told friends and her mother that she feared Mr. Pagan might come to Connecticut to confront her. "She couldn't get away from him," her mother said. Ms. Lorch took certification classes to buy a handgun and texted a friend, "I feel fine at my moms cause my step dad has guns but I def won't move into my own place until I have my own."
In her last week, she had dinner with her mother on Wednesday and worked out at the gym on Thursday, then cooked dinner for her mother and her stepfather. "She wasn't great," her mother said, "but she was talking, and we had fun." On Friday, after completing a heavy lift at the gym, she posted: "Another few lbs back on the bar. Another happy place. Keep on keepin' on." It was her final post.
"Saturday, she went downhill," Ms. Steiner said. She stayed in bed, saying she did not want to be around people.
Sunday, the first night of Hanukkah, Ms. Steiner went to her son's house nearby, expecting her daughter to arrive later. Instead, Ms. Lorch texted to say she was not coming. Ms. Steiner tried calling and texting but got no answer. Finally, she checked Ms. Lorch's Instagram page to see if she had posted anything. The page had been taken down.
She and her partner arrived home to find Ms. Lorch dead in her bathroom.
It is natural to seek a clean explanation after a suicide. Ms. Lorch was dealing with a relationship she considered abusive and the self-recrimination that came with staying in it for three years. But she also faced the fear of a lawsuit or physical confrontation, the effects of steroids, the double standard applied to female athletes, 75-hour work weeks, chronic pain from past injuries, plus whatever emotional turbulence or depression she carried with her to the gym.
Anthony Fuhrman, a strongman champion who also ran a tournament, said he bonded with Ms. Lorch over their respective traumas, and they became like brother and sister. After she died, he posted on Instagram about his own suicidal thoughts, saying, "Rebecca Lorch saved my life." With her death, he sold his interest in the tournament and started the #JusticeForRebecca campaign. "She touched a lot of lives," he said.
"A lot of times this sport does attract people who are already searching for something," Mr. Fuhrman said. "It attracts people because it is a community, and it's about empowering, it's about getting strong. It attracts broken souls. When you throw drugs on top of those broken souls like myself, it compounds the issues."
United States Strongman is now developing a formal policy regarding harassment and sexual conduct, said William Wessels, the president and owner. He said the organization has banned three male athletes since 2020.
Ms. Steiner searched her daughter's phone and computer for answers but found nothing that might have set her off. Ms. Lorch's final text was to a friend, making plans for the following week. "I never in a million years thought she -- " Ms. Steiner said, her voice trailing off.
"We think this was a very sudden thought process," she said, finally. "She just suddenly said, 'That's it,' and because of her personality, she just did it."
If you are having thoughts of suicide, call or text 988 to reach the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources.
If you are having thoughts of suicide, call or text 988 to reach the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources.
Photograph Above, Rebecca Lorch competing in a strongwoman competition in March 2022. Left, Ms. Lorch's mother, Susan Steiner, and brother, Jeremy Lorch, with Ms. Lorch's dog, Bella, this month. Ms. Lorch died by suicide in December. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MURPHY; DESIREE RIOS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1); Top, Rebecca Lorch during a strongman/strongwoman competition in April 2022. Above, clockwise from bottom left, Abbie Deal, Tyler Perdue, Alec Pagan and Ms. Lorch. For a time, Mr. Pagan trained Ms. Lorch and they had a romantic relationship. But Mr. Pagan disparaged Ms. Lorch in front of others, Ms. Deal said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONDRA WELLS; ABBIE DEALA) (MB4) This article appeared in print on page MB1, MB4.

Subject: Athletes; Drugs & sports; Women; Coaches & managers; Trauma; Social networks; Nutrition

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/nyregion/rebecca-lorch-strongwoman-suicide.html

Title: Slowly, a Life Built on Strength Unraveled:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767374155

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slowly-life-built-on-strength-unraveled/docview/2767374155/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2767381498/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Saturday, Jan. 21, 2023.
PAGES A2-A3
An Inside The Times article on Friday about the hands of N.F.L. players misspelled the surname of a photographer. She is Chona Kasinger, not Chasinger.
INTERNATIONAL
An article on Friday about South Africa's joint naval training exercises with China and Russia misstated the name of the organization with which Denys Reva is affiliated. It is the Institute for Security Studies, not the Institute of Security Studies.
NATIONAL
An article on Friday about Donald Trump blaming evangelical leaders for Republicans' disappointing midterm performance referred incorrectly to Jerry Falwell Jr. Though he is a prominent evangelical leader, he is not a reverend.
METROPOLITAN
An article on Page 1 this weekend about Rebecca Lorch, a competitive powerlifter, misidentifies the time and place that Ms. Lorch, Abbie Deal and their boyfriends shared an Airbnb rental. It was in 2020 at the America's Strongest Man & Woman in Savannah, Ga., not at the 2019 Nationals in Daytona Beach.
OBITUARIES
An obituary on Friday about the singer, songwriter and guitarist David Crosby misspelled his middle name and the name of the family from which his mother descended. It is Van Cortlandt, not Van Cortland.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Title: Corrections:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retraction

ProQuest document ID: 2767381498

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2767381498/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Layoffs in Tech Reveal a Divide Of Generations: [National Desk]

Author: Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-tech-reveal-divide-generations/docview/2767381460/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The industry's recent job cuts have been an awakening for a generation of workers who have never experienced a cyclical crash.
When Lyft laid off 13 percent of its workers in November, Kelly Chang was shocked to find herself among the 700 people who lost their jobs at the San Francisco company.
"It seemed like tech companies had so much opportunity," said Ms. Chang, 26. "If you got a job, you made it. It was a sustainable path."
Brian Pulliam, on the other hand, brushed off the news that the crypto exchange Coinbase was eliminating his job. Ever since the 48-year-old engineer was laid off from his first job at the video game company Atari in 2003, he said, he has asked himself once a year: "If I were laid off, what would I do?"
The contrast between Ms. Chang's and Mr. Pulliam's reactions to their professional letdowns speaks to a generational divide that is becoming more clear as the tech industry, which expanded rapidly through the pandemic, swings toward mass layoffs.
Microsoft said this week that it planned to cut 10,000 jobs, or roughly 5 percent of its work force. And on Friday morning, Google's parent company, Alphabet, said it planned to cut 12,000 jobs, or about 6 percent of its total. Their cuts followed big layoffs at other tech companies like Meta, Amazon and Salesforce.
Millennials and Generation Z, born between 1981 and 2012, started tech careers during a decade-long expansion when jobs multiplied as fast as iPhone sales. The companies they joined were conquering the world and defying economic rules. And when they went to work at outfits that offered bus rides to the office and amenities like free food and laundry, they weren't just taking on a new job -- they were taking on a lifestyle. Few of them had experienced widespread layoffs.
Baby boomers and members of Generation X, born between 1946 and 1980, on the other hand, lived through the biggest contraction the industry has ever seen. The dot-com crash of the early 2000s eliminated more than one million jobs, emptying Silicon Valley's Highway 101 of commuters as many companies folded overnight.
"It was a blood bath, and it went on for years," said Jason DeMorrow, a software engineer who was laid off twice in 18 months and was out of work for more than six months. "As concerning as the current downturn is, and as much as I empathize with the people impacted, there's no comparison."
Tech's generational divide is representative of a broader phenomenon. The year someone is born has a big influence on views about work and money. Early personal experiences strongly determine a person's appetite for financial risk, according to a 2011 study by the economists Ulrike Malmendier of the University of California, Berkeley, and Stefan Nagel of the University of Chicago.
The study, which analyzed the Federal Reserve's Survey of Consumer Finances from 1960 to 2007, found that people who came of age in the 1970s, when the stock market stagnated, were reluctant to invest in the early 1980s, when it roared. That trend reversed in the 1990s.
"Once you experience your first crash, things change," Professor Nagel said. "You realize bad stuff happens and maybe you should be a bit more cautious."
For Gen X, the dot-com collapse hit early in careers. From 2001 to 2005, the tech sector shed a quarter of its workers, according to an analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data by CompTIA, a technology education and research organization.
The layoffs that swept the industry were worse than the recession of the early 1990s, when total jobs in the tech sector fell by 5 percent, and the global financial crisis in 2008, when the work force contracted by 6 percent.
In 2011, the tech sector began a hiring boom that would last a decade. It added an average of more than 100,000 jobs annually, and by 2021, it had recouped all the jobs it lost when the dot-com bubble burst.
The job figures account for software, hardware, tech services and telecommunications companies, including Apple, Meta, Nvidia and Salesforce. But they may exclude some tech-related companies, such as Airbnb, Lyft and Uber, because of ambiguity in government labor market reporting that classifies some businesses as consumer services, said Tim Herbert, chief research officer at CompTIA.
The biggest job increases in tech came after the pandemic started, as companies rushed to fulfill surging demand. In 2022, the sector added nearly 260,000 jobs, according to CompTIA, the most it had added in a single year since 2000.
Tech's job increases continued last year even as big layoffs started, though it is unclear if that trend has stretched into this year. New job opportunities were a factor as nearly 80 percent of laid-off tech workers said they had found a new job within three months, according to a survey by ZipRecruiter.
"We're seeing the hiring mania of the pandemic being corrected for -- not the popping of a bubble," said Andy Challenger, senior vice president of the career transition firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas.
Last fall, David Hayden, a program manager with a doctorate in physics, learned from his manager that he would be let go from nLight, a semiconductor company. Worried about how he would pay his eldest daughter's college tuition, he immediately reached out to recruiters to line up interviews. In December, a month after being let go, he started a position at Lattice Semiconductor.
In each interview, Mr. Hayden, 56, volunteered that he had been laid off, he said. His experience during the dot-com crash, when he avoided layoffs even as talented colleagues were let go, taught him that cuts aren't always rational.
"The shame of being laid off is gone," Mr. Hayden said. "Companies know that a lot of good people are being let go right now."
For Mr. Pulliam, losing his job at Coinbase was an opportunity. He funneled his severance money into his own business, Refactor Coaching, a career coaching service for software engineers.
"This is a gift," Mr. Pulliam said. "I don't think that story is told. It's always doom and gloom."
But for tech workers experiencing their first economic downturn, the cuts have been eye opening. Ms. Chang studied product design in college with an eye toward joining a tech industry that seemed recession proof. Being laid off from Lyft shook that faith.
Erin Sumner, a software recruiter at Facebook's parent company, Meta, used to brag to potential hires that the company had been the fastest ever to be valued at $ 1 trillion. She said she would promote the company's strengths, even last year as its stock price tumbled and its core business, digital advertising, struggled.
When rumors of layoffs began to circulate last year, she assured colleagues that their jobs were safe, pointing to the more than $ 40 billion in cash the company had in the bank. But in November, she was among 11,000 workers laid off.
"It was gut-wrenching," Ms. Sumner, 32, said. She has found a new job as the head recruiter for DeleteMe, a start-up that aims to remove a customer's information from search results. But she said she cringed each time she read about more tech layoffs.
"I fear it's going to get worse before it gets better," Ms. Sumner said. "There's no guarantee. I got laid off by the most secure company in the world."
A similar reversal of fortune has challenged businesses selling software services. Shares of Salesforce, an industry leader, fell nearly 50 percent last year as its sales growth slowed. The company had splurged during the pandemic, spending $ 28 billion to buy Slack Technologies. It swelled to 80,000 employees from 49,000 in two years.
During an all-hands meeting last week to discuss the company's decision to lay off 10 percent of its workers, Marc Benioff, the chief executive, tried to sympathize with his unhappy staff by putting the cuts in context.
"I've been through a lot of difficult times in this company. Every loss reawakens another loss for me," he said, according to a recording of the call heard by The New York Times. "Obviously, we're talking about a layoff. I think about employees who have died. I think about people we've lost that we never wanted to lose."
Asked what advice he had for employees who were anxious about the state of the company and further layoffs, Mr. Benioff suggested "gratitude."
Austin Bedford learned that he was one of about 8,000 people being let go from Salesforce when he tried to log on to his computer and had no access to Slack, the tool that he worked on as a conversation designer. A native of East Palo Alto, Calif., he studied computer design because he hoped to join one of profitable companies in his backyard. The job he landed at the company in 2021 fulfilled a dream. He never imagined he would lose it so soon.
"I was shocked," said Mr. Bedford, 41.
Though disappointed that he was laid off, he said he was trying to view being out of work as a "blessing in disguise" and intended to be selective about his next job.
"There's something bright around the corner," Mr. Bedford said. "I just need to have faith."
Kellen Browning and David Yaffe-Bellany contributed reporting.
Kellen Browning and David Yaffe-Bellany contributed reporting.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIANA DREHSLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MERON TEKIE MENGHISTAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Generations; Baby boomers; Employees; Layoffs; Employment; Recessions; Workforce planning; Millennials; Generation Z; High tech industries; Generation X; Software industry; Economic conditions; Older workers; Younger workers

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Layoffs Employment Recessions Workforce planning High tech industries Software industry Economic conditions Older workers Younger workers

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/technology/tech-layoffs-millennials-gen-x.html

Title: Layoffs in Tech Reveal a Divide Of Generations:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767381460

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-tech-reveal-divide-generations/docview/2767381460/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cherished Family Home Gets a Second Act: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Mzezewa, Tariro

Publication info: Mzezewa, Tariro. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cherished-family-home-gets-second-act/docview/2765422260/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Michael Newell wanted to buy and renovate the house he and his siblings grew up in, and give it another purpose. Wedding bells are ringing!
For many years, a thought often crept into Michael Newell's mind: "What if I bought my childhood home?" He wanted to keep the cherished house, but give it another purpose. Sometimes he shared that thought with his then-girlfriend, Marché Robinson. But it never went further than that.
That childhood home -- a 7,000-square-foot colonial-style house located on a 16-acre lot just south of Greensboro, N.C. -- was built by Mr. Newell's parents in the early 1980s, and Mr. Newell has only the fondest memories of growing up there with his parents and five older siblings. The home was filled with joy, happiness and love, he said.
"Whether it was full of family members -- even when it was just me and my mom and my dad -- we always had a good time in the house," he said.
Mr. Newell and Ms. Robinson got engaged in 2018, and when they started searching for a place to get married, Mr. Newell, 38, a lawyer and a restaurateur, started thinking about the family home once again. But with his career on the rise, and without quite knowing the logistics of converting a family home into a commercial wedding venue, he left the idea alone. It wasn't until after he and Ms. Robinson got married in 2019, at a historic home that was being used for weddings, that he decided to make his own dream come true.
"Our venue kind of inspired him to bring it up again," said Ms. Robinson, 37, a lawyer and lifestyle influencer.
Buying the house and breathing new life into it would keep it in the family, Mr. Newell figured, and it would also give the family another revenue stream. In addition, he had become aware of how little diversity there was in the wedding business.
"The landscape of the wedding industry is kind of monolithic," Mr. Newell said. "There's not many Black people that own venues. I don't personally know any and I had that moment of 'Why not us? Why not this place? Why shouldn't we?"'
The wedding business is a $ 100 billion industry in the United States, and couples spend the majority of their budget on venues, according to The Knot, a company that tracks wedding trends and has an online marketplace that helps people plan weddings.
The Knot's 2021 Real Weddings Study found that couples spent a national average of $ 10,700 on a venue. In North Carolina, couples spent an average of $ 23,000 on the ceremony and venue combined.
The Newell House opened in November and has, so far, been used for private events like birthday parties. The Newells have started receiving bookings for 2023 weddings. Room for Six to Roam
In the 1970s, when Dottie Newell and Dr. McArthur Newell, her husband, imagined their dream home, they envisioned a spacious kitchen, dining and living room, many bedrooms for their children, a huge yard and plenty of space to entertain. It only made sense that when they found the land on Lancelot Drive in Pleasant Garden, N.C., they decided to build their dream home there.
"We liked that it was on 16 acres," Mrs. Newell said. "I liked the freedom of my children being able to run around the neighborhood and explore and have little paths that they could go on. We saw animals and we had friends come over. It gave us space we felt would allow us to do the fun things we liked doing."
The Newells moved into the house in September 1983. Four months later, their youngest child, Michael, was born.
Mr. Newell said that his parents succeeded in creating the home they dreamed of. The Newell home was the hub of entertainment, gatherings and a constant feeling of community. He recalled having friends stay at the house for sleepovers, exploring the backyard (there's a creek if you walk far enough back), waking up and cleaning on Saturday mornings (his mother is skeptical of just how much cleaning he did as a boy), dancing around the house as music played through the record player that was built into the kitchen wall.
The Newells often played Nina Simone and B.B. King. Sometimes they played classical music. Other times they played jazz. James Brown -- one of Dr. Newell's favorite musicians -- was a fixture. Dinner parties, birthdays, anniversaries, homecomings and more were hosted at the home, and frequently, Mrs. Newell changed the doorbell chimes to match the occasion or time of year.
When Dr. Newell died in July 2002, long after five of the children had grown up and left home, and just a month before Mr. Newell left for college, selling the house wasn't a consideration. There were too many good memories there.
"This house is a magnet for me," Mrs. Newell said. "It was such a labor of love. When we were there, and our neighbors who were friends, college friends and high school friends were there, it was just a joy. I loved that and I wanted it to continue."
In August of 2002, Mr. Newell left home to attend the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and he frequently brought his friends home to visit. Other family members also came to visit, but as the years went on it became clearer that there was too much house for one person. The Newell family talked occasionally about selling the home, but Mrs. Newell could not imagine not keeping it in the family.
"In some ways the logical thing would have been to sell the house, but I think for us and for my mom, too, it didn't feel right to do that," Mr. Newell said. "It just felt a little bit hard to imagine what it would have felt like to lose it."
Mrs. Newell added: "You know, that song 'There's a sweet, sweet spirit in this place?' That house has that."
Keeping the Spirit Alive
When Mr. Newell and Ms. Robinson began to seriously consider buying the house in late 2019, they knew that keeping the spirit of the home alive would have to be at the heart of the project. But how could they update a family home from the early 1980s and keep what made it special, while also making it appealing to a diverse array of couples who might want to get married there?
They enlisted the guidance of Howard Eason, who is married to Mr. Newell's sister, Donna. Mr. Eason, an interior designer who has worked as a handyman (he was a contestant on HGTV's "All American Handyman"), said that he remembers walking through the house for the first time.
"They needed someone to come in, just look at it and say, is this something that we should do or not do?" Mr. Eason said. "Of course, seeing that the foundation and the bones were superb, I told them that we should move forward with it."
They bought the house from Mr. Newell's mother, who had moved out in 2015, but kept her belongings there until the renovation was underway. Updating a four-decade-old house, while maintaining its character, might have been a daunting possibility for some people, but Mr. Newell had the perfect partners in Ms. Robinson, who loves a challenge, and Mr. Eason, who also knows plumbing, construction and design. "My strength as well as my flaw is that I really don't hear an idea and think we can't do it, so I was like 'It's been done before so we can do it."' Ms. Robinson said.
For the next three years, Mr. Eason oversaw the replacement of plumbing and drainage systems, tearing down walls and replacing flooring. The original brick on the outside of the house was painted a pristine white to make it pop and "to give it some visual interest," Mr. Eason said, adding that much of the interior work was cosmetic, like redoing the drywall. The floors were redone with walnut and the walls were painted in mostly neutral colors to appeal to a wide range of couples getting married. New trim was added to the walls -- "even if it's kind of whitewashed in spots, you will see details, texture and contrast," Mr. Eason said.
Mr. Newell said he spent $ 300,000 on the renovation, and compared the earliest days of the renovation to an old car that hadn't been used in a long time, with broken parts, rusty spots and in need of a lot of love. He said there were certain elements that needed to be incorporated into the renovated house.
On the list of things to keep: the record player in the wall, the doorbell, the trees and plants that Mr. Newell's parents had received as gifts when they first moved into the home.
"There are definitely little ways we're trying to keep tradition in the house," Ms. Robinson said.
Planning for the Future
While buying the house was an emotional decision, driven by a desire to keep a home filled with memories in the family, it was also a practical business decision, Mr. Newell and Ms. Robinson said. Ms. Robinson's father had his own businesses and she inherited his entrepreneurial spirit. Mr. Newell has his own restaurants and law firm, and was always thinking of what to do next.
"It's always been in his mind that we should build, build, build opportunities, so if we have children they can be able to have a job already there for them if they choose to pursue it," including nephews and nieces, Ms. Robinson said.
Ms. Robinson and Mr. Newell know that their experience isn't a typical one, particularly for Black families who may not have a house, let alone multiple properties, to turn one into a business, but they know that their experience has the potential to inspire those who are in a similar position, or would like to be.
With more than 140,000 Instagram followers on her personal Instagram page and 15,000 on a page she created for the house itself, Ms. Robinson regularly gets messages from Black people who have recently inherited a home, but who don't know what to do with it. Many don't want to keep the home because it is in a place where they don't live.
"Even if they don't live in it, maybe they can make it an Airbnb, maybe they can make it a venue, just keep that property in the family," Ms. Robinson said. "We found a way to keep the house in the family without making it be someone's burden to live in it."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Top, from left: Marché Robinson, her brother-in-law Howard Eason and her husband, Michael Newell, at Mr. Newell's childhood home in Pleasant Garden, N.C, which they reimagined as a wedding and party venue. Left, from top: The home, now known as the Newell House; a lounge; neutral colors dominate. Above, center, Dottie Newell and her husband built the home, above, in the early 1980s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALYCEE BYRD; BRENT DEITRICH) This article appeared in print on page RE8.

Subject: Weddings; Families & family life

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/14/realestate/wedding-venue-family-home.html

Title: Cherished Family Home Gets a Second Act:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 15, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2765422260

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cherished-family-home-gets-second-act/docview/2765422260/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

With a Little Jiu-Jitsu, Getting Swept Off Their Feet: [Society Desk]

Author: Otis, John

Publication info: Otis, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-little-jiu-jitsu-getting-swept-off-their/docview/2761602894/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Meg He felt an immediate connection with Margot Ciccarelli during a private jiu-jitsu lesson more than three years ago.
Before it was ever put into words, the connection, between Meg He and Margot Ciccarelli was apparent from their movements.
Ms. He and Ms. Ciccarelli both practice Brazilian jiu-jitsu. In 2019, when Ms. He first took up the martial art, she searched the internet for accomplished women whose techniques she could emulate. Her search turned up Ms. Ciccarelli, a professional jiu-jitsu athlete and teacher. Ms. He sent her an Instagram message, complimenting Ms. Ciccarelli's dancing, her style -- and her hair.
"I wanted to be really clear that I didn't admire her for what she had won before or her titles," said Ms. He, 35. "It was that her style was really unique and interesting."
A friendship took root. The women shared similar backgrounds. Each was British Chinese and an only child. Ms. Ciccarelli, who never stayed in one place very long, offered to take Ms. He on as a student and give her a private jiu-jitsu lesson if their paths ever crossed. In June 2019, they did. The women met in London, when Ms. He made a trip to visit her parents. The lesson was supposed to last an hour. It lasted three.
Ms. Ciccarelli was impressed by how much Ms. He, a novice, was able to understand about jiu-jitsu's nuances. Ms. He said she felt self-conscious and out of her depth. She said when she and Ms. Ciccarelli touched, her body responded in unexpected ways. "I was unable to control myself around her," Ms. He said.
Ms. Ciccarelli explained that the complexity inherent in jiu-jitsu can make it a very meaningful and deep exchange between opponents.
"It's a partner-based sport, said Ms. Ciccarelli, 29. "We're always creating something new."
A couple of weeks after that sparring session, Ms. Ciccarelli traveled to New York City for a competition and stayed with Ms. He. They saw little of each other because of Ms. Ciccarelli's demanding schedule. But Ms. Ciccarelli left behind her "lucky gi," a garment she had worn in competitions, with a note, suggesting Ms. He could return it when they next met. Ms. He knew that something more than friendship was brewing between them.
Both Ms. He and Ms. Ciccarelli identify as pansexual. But Ms. He, a founder and co-chief executive of Aday, a sustainable clothing brand, was not out publicly, or to her parents. She also had never dated a woman before. Although she was willing to take that step, Ms. He worried that Ms. Ciccarelli's nomadic nature would make a relationship untenable.
Ms. He was determined, however, to tell Ms. Ciccarelli how she felt.
In September, they met in San Diego, where Ms. Ciccarelli was participating in another jiu-jitsu competition. The two stayed at an Airbnb that Ms. He had rented. One evening they walked to a lighthouse along the Point Loma coast to watch the sunset. While sitting on a bench, Ms. He told Ms. Ciccarelli that she had feelings for her. Ms. Ciccarelli responded: "I know."
Ms. He said her shock caused her to fall backward off the bench. Ms. Ciccarelli fell, too, in solidarity.
Soon after, Ms. Ciccarelli, who was competing overseas, made frequent visits to New York. Their relationship was challenged by bouts of long-distance separation, as well as the pandemic, which forced Ms. Ciccarelli into a prolonged depression, not being able to compete.
"Every relationship has its ups and downs and you've got to choose who you want to do that with," Ms. Ciccarelli said. "I don't want to be annoyed by anyone else."
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
The tumult of the last couple of years also ushered growth, both personally and athletically. In May 2021, Ms. Ciccarelli became a black belt. And in November 2021, Ms. Ciccarelli proposed in Abu Dhabi, where they were participating in the World Professional Jiu-Jitsu Championship. "I wanted to show that I was committed to not being nomadic, that I was committed to her and committed to our ongoing journey," Ms. Ciccarelli said.
In October, the couple moved to Costa Mesa, Calif., to allow Ms. Ciccarelli the opportunity to train with a black belt master.
The couple had an intimate ceremony on Dec. 26 at a private residence in the Mount Washington neighborhood of Los Angeles. Nina Faulhaber, who is Ms. He's business partner, officiated, having been ordained for the occasion by the Universal Life Church.
Dozens of guests joined via Zoom, a fitting format for a couple with so many loved ones scattered across the world, they said. They plan to visit many of them in person over the next year, and embark on many more "crazy journeys" together, Ms. Ciccarelli said.
"At every single point, I knew that Margot was the most interesting person I'd ever met," Ms. He said. "I don't want to spend my life with anyone less interesting."
Photograph Margot Ciccarelli, Meg He (PHOTOGRAPH BY NINA FAULHABER) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/06/style/meg-he-margot-ciccarelli-wedding.html

Title: With a Little Jiu-Jitsu, Getting Swept Off Their Feet:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 8, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761602894

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-little-jiu-jitsu-getting-swept-off-their/docview/2761602894/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bleak Sign of Storms' Power: Undersides of Thousands of Trees: [National Desk]

Author: Hubler, Shawn; Cowan, Jill

Publication info: Hubler, Shawn; Cowan, Jill. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bleak-sign-storms-power-undersides-thousands/docview/2761463085/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Pounding rainstorms following an epic drought leave thousands of broken trees that batter roads, levees and neighborhoods.
SACRAMENTO -- The coast redwood crashed through the roof and into Nicole Valentine's bedroom while she was away at a party, trying to ignore the powerful storms that were hammering Northern California with fierce winds and rain. On the phone, her neighbor was almost incoherent.
"She's like, 'A tree just fell on your house! I smell gas! I called 911!"' Ms. Valentine, a mother of two and a lawyer in Sacramento, said. "I said, 'Wait -- what?' Thank goodness no one was at home but our labradoodle, Charlie. My husband ran home immediately."
In the days since that call on New Year's Eve, cumulative storms have pummeled California -- and Ms. Valentine and her family have huddled in an Airbnb with Charlie, who survived unharmed. As they have tried to schedule insurance adjusters, versions of their terrifying experience have proliferated across the nation's most populous state.
Stressed by drought, whipped by wind and weakened at the roots by relentless rain and flooding, trees -- tall and short, ancient and young, in mountain preserves and suburban yards -- have toppled across California this week in breathtaking numbers, the most visible sign of a state veering between environmental extremes.
A procession of atmospheric rivers has interrupted an epic drought responsible for the driest three years on California record. The sudden swing from scarcity to excess with back-to-back storms is testing the state's infrastructure broadly, straining the power grid, levees, drainage systems and roads from the Pacific Coast to the Sierra Nevada.
On Thursday, the pressure mounted as rain swelled rivers and snowy whiteouts obscured mountain passes. In San Francisco, trains were delayed amid systemwide disruptions on the Bay Area Rapid Transit. In Santa Cruz County, a tidal surge carried off parts of piers and forced the City of Santa Cruz to close its wharf as a safety measure. In Southern California, huge waves threatened lifeguard towers in Los Angeles County and flooded the Pacific Coast Highway in Huntington Beach, as the rain moved southward.
By Friday morning, tens of thousands of customers, mostly in Northern California, were still without power as communities prepared for yet another round of drenching rain. Forecasters with the National Weather Service in the Bay Area said the next atmospheric river was expected to arrive late Friday and spread south to Central California on Saturday, raising the risk of more flooding and mudslides across the northern section of the state. Farther inland and around the Sacramento area, conditions were expected to be equally dangerous.
If the storm had a theme, it was in the uprooted and broken trees that seemed to blanket the rain-soaked landscape -- a loss and a hazard that the director of the state water resources department, Karla Nemeth, had warned would be "the signature of this particular event."
Falling trees slammed into power lines on the Central Coast, shut down Highway 101 in Humboldt County and snarled rail service in Burlingame and San Francisco. They injured a California Highway Patrol officer at a crash scene in San Jose and ensnared cars on rain-soaked roads in Marin County. On Wednesday, fire officials said, a redwood in the Sonoma County community of Occidental crashed into a mobile home, killing a toddler.
In the Fruitvale neighborhood of Oakland, a tree crashed through a public housing apartment on Wednesday, where Victoria James lives with her adult daughter, her two younger children and her 3-year-old granddaughter. "Everything shook and went black," Ms. James said. "I thought it was an earthquake."
When she saw branches poking through her ceiling and more limbs falling, she said, she grabbed the children and started running.
"There were live wires everywhere," she said. "My neighbors had to direct us because it was pitch black out. We just left with what we had on our backs. Literally ran out -- one kid didn't even have on tennis shoes."
In Sacramento, which bills itself as the "City of Trees," the atmospheric rivers claimed nearly 1,000 trees in six days, according to the city's urban forester, Kevin Hocker, who called the toll "much more than we've seen in other storms." He estimated that 60 fell in one city park alone.
On the State Capitol grounds, a short distance from the spot where Governor Gavin Newsom was being inaugurated for a second term on Friday, a giant sequoia lay uprooted, felled by the storms and surrounded with hazard tape and scattered drifts of branches; its fall sheared the limbs off one side of a nearby Torrey pine. Paula Peper, a retired U.S. Forest Service urban ecologist in Sacramento, estimated that the giant sequoia had stood for 80 to 100 years, through as many as 18 governors.
At Sacramento City College, a downed cedar, huge and fragrant, blocked the entrance to campus. In a manicured neighborhood near the American River, Marco Leyva, a local landscaper, scrambled to retrieve fallen tree limbs, his truck piled high with redwood, oak and liquid amber. Some, he said, appeared to have fallen partway in the New Year's Eve storm, "and then the wind this time just knocked them down."
The toll on trees is more than ornamental and nostalgic. At critical juncture in adapting to climate change, scientists say that trees are a physical barometer and manifestation of failure and success.
In California cities, the urban canopy is a critical piece of environmental infrastructure, cooling sidewalks, cleansing air, creating wildlife habitat and giving people of all socioeconomic backgrounds respite from intensifying heat waves. In more remote places, where disease and drought have already turned vast tracts of wilderness into kindling, the fallen trees, unless they are quickly cleared, invite wildfire and pests.
In a news conference, Ms. Nemeth, the state water resources director, blamed the horticultural devastation on the drought as well as the violent weather. "We're moving from extreme drought to extreme flood," she said. "What that means is, a lot of our trees are stressed."
At the same time, weather systems shifted by climate change have amplified wind and precipitation, said Jeffrey Mount, a senior fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California's Water Policy Center. Last weekend's storm was very wet -- essentially, an atmospheric fire hose hanging over California -- but this week's "bomb cyclone" storm brought much more wind, Dr. Mount said.
The one-two punch of ever more saturated soil and speeding winds, scientists say, has made it tougher for trees to stay upright.
"It is not a surprise when we start getting these 50- to 70-mile-per-hour gusts that these big, old trees that are stressed and have their feet planted in what is essentially mud at this point -- they fall over," Dr. Mount said. "An astonishing number of these big trees go toes up in these big storms."
Emily Griswold, director of horticulture and teaching gardens at the University of California, Davis Arboretum, said that the swings between climate extremes have left even healthy trees more vulnerable. On New Year's Eve, some 15 thriving trees at the arboretum uprooted -- including a "beautiful, healthy" Guadalupe Island cypress planted in 1936.
She and her colleagues research which trees and plants would be best to help shade cities and which would be able to thrive in a rapidly changing California.
Much of their research so far has focused on extreme heat and drought. But the recent storms have shown that those inquiries must expand, she said.
"It's like heat, drought, flood -- hell or high water," Ms. Griswold said. "We're definitely looking closely at what fails, why did it fail, what can we learn from this, and how can we plant more wisely in the future?"
Brian Ferguson, a spokesman for the California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, said the thousands of downed trees have been among the biggest challenges the state has encountered in managing public safety in this storm system. Falling trees not only threaten buildings and power lines, he said, but also can damage levees by toppling near waterways where branches and debris can be propelled downstream.
The new climate reality, he said, has meant that disasters intertwine and compound one another: Drought worsens and lengthens fire seasons. Global warming intensifies heat waves. Precipitation that can no longer fall as snow lands as a deluge, and flora and fauna strain to survive the ecological disruption.
The current disasters, and the living things that endure them, Mr. Ferguson said, underscore the reality that "we are one planet."
"I'm not a scientist, just a dad with two eyes and a brain, but it's so clear that the world is changing around us," he said.
Holly Secon and Derrick Bryson Taylor contributed reporting.
Holly Secon and Derrick Bryson Taylor contributed reporting.
Photograph Above, removing a fallen tree at Sacramento City College; palms battered by high winds in San Francisco; a crushed bicycle in Sacramento; and, below, an unexpected roadblock, also in Sacramento. A relentless wave of punishing rainstorms, after years of drought, has left a tangled mess of thousands of uprooted and broken trees in California, blocking roads, weakening levees and damaging homes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MIKE KAI CHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); VICTORIA JAMES, above, who fled with her children and a granddaughter after a tree crashed into her apartment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A9.

Subject: Precipitation; Drought; Landslides & mudslides; Wind; Power; Floods; Roads & highways; Trees; New year; Governors; Storm damage; Climate change; Cities; Rain

Location: United States--US; Sacramento California; Northern California; California; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: Sacramento City College; NAICS: 611210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/06/us/california-storms-trees.html

Title: Bleak Sign of Storms' Power: Undersides of Thousands of Trees:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 276146 3085

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bleak-sign-storms-power-undersides-thousands/docview/2761463085/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Waterworld: Island Hopping in the Grenadines: [Travel Desk]

Author: Burleigh, Nina

Publication info: Burleigh, Nina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/waterworld-island-hopping-grenadines/docview/2761463082/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Forget about flying if you want to visit many of these stunning specks of land sprinkled across the Caribbean. Hop on a sailboat or a ferry, or you can always swim.
Storm clouds bunched ahead like an unmade bed as our captain gunned his single outboard motor straight into the oncoming swells. Thwack! Every 10 seconds, we bounced high then slammed down hard, drenched in salt spray, on the wooden bench. Even more thrilling -- or maybe terrifying -- we could see no life jackets aboard. It was just another island crossing in St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
To see more than one or two of this Caribbean nation's 32 mostly uninhabited islands, which stretch in a roughly 56-mile-long crescent closer to Venezuela than to North America, you'll need a boat. Flights between islands are hard to come by, and if you do find one, takeoffs are unpredictable.
During our nine-day tour of the archipelago, my husband and I visited eight islands -- including one barely larger than a sandbar -- by ferry, water taxi, small yacht and the occasional swim to shore.
It was a far cry from my previous Caribbean forays. Those land-based trips culminated in daily hot showers and hair dryers back at the hotel or Airbnb. Here, we lived in our swimsuits and bathed in the sea, immersed in the consonance of land, ocean and culture that is island life.
Rum punch with the 'yachties'
Our journey began on St. Vincent, the island "mainland" of the Grenadines. We rented a car, loaded up on water and an addictive regional snack of molasses, coconut and spices called toolum, and hit the winding roads, dodging stray dogs, goats and roosters. The northernmost island in the chain, just 18 miles long, St. Vincent is a tangle of hibiscus, bougainvillea, pastel cottages and corrugated-metal-roofed bars with names like Joe's Bla Bla and Chillspot.
We found a muddy hiking adventure at the Vermont Nature Trail, a two-mile path winding around a pair of towering pitons (pointed volcanic peaks), dense with Caribbean pines, palms, epiphytes and tall trees with thick buttresses. The guide we hired at the entrance was worth the $ 20: The slippery trails might have persuaded us to turn around before reaching the preserve at the top, where we glimpsed a pair of the endangered St. Vincent parrots soaring over the green valley.
The next morning, we boarded a ferry loaded with pallets of potatoes, concrete, diapers and other necessities, bound for the island of Canouan, where a floating Airbnb awaited us. When we disembarked two hours later, we met Johan Kotze and Nelia Lindeque, a South African couple who left their aerospace jobs a decade ago and sailed across the Atlantic on their 34-foot catamaran, the Wind Kat, where they now welcome visitors to join their island hopping.
On the aft deck of the Wind Kat, the pair inducted us into "yachtie" life with a toast of rum punch. The yachties form a sort of floating, nomadic expatriate community in the Caribbean. They are laid-back (some boast of spending weeks naked on their boats); meet up when the wind blows them into the same bays; exchange news about swells, weather and which islands are short on supplies like butter and lettuce; and gather to lash their boats to the roots of coastal mangroves when hurricanes are coming.
Some of the Grenadines are private -- Mustique and Petit St. Vincent, for example. Canouan is open to the public, but increasingly colonized by the 1 percent. Travel sites have called it "the next billionaires' playground," on a course to become a superyacht destination like St. Barts. Rooms at the Mandarin Oriental start at $ 1,800 a night. Not far away, the new Soho House Canouan, a members-only resort, offers an elegant outdoor bar and restaurant that is open to the public, but the yachties scoffed at paying $ 6 for a Carib beer, when local bars sell them for less than half that.
That night, we slept under an open hatch. The glup-glup of waves on the hull woke me just before sunrise, and I opened my eyes to see a square of starry sky turn from violet to pink.
After a breakfast of coffee and eggs, followed by an obligatory rum punch toast (yachties day-drink without shame), we set sail. Fish splashed and glittered along the hull. Above, the mast tilted back and forth like a compass needle aimed at the sky. An hour later, we were anchored at Salt Whistle Bay on the island of Mayreau.
From above, Mayreau, which is less than two square miles, looks a bit like a manta ray, one of the creatures that live in the nearby waters. It is roughly seven miles from Canouan, but economically, another world. It has no gas stations or A.T.M.s. It had no electricity until the early 2000s, after the national government persuaded the family that had owned the island since colonial times to sell 24 acres to its approximately 250 residents.
Mayreau is the only inhabited island within the Tobago Cays Marine Park, a protected area that also includes three islets and five cays (including one, Petit Tabac, that served as a setting in "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl"). The surrounding reefs teem with sea turtles, rays, sharks and other marine life. The park attracts yachties, private charters and some medium-size cruise ships. But its fishing restrictions also pose hardships for the local population.
Some are trying to turn conservation into opportunity. Once a week, Marion Isaacs dons scuba gear to replant coral in the park, earning $ 50 for an afternoon. She and her group, We Are Mayreau, are working to improve living conditions and access to education for islanders.
"Making conservation a viable employment option, something that is full time as opposed to once a week, would help," Ms. Isaacs said.
Owen Day, a scientist with Clear Caribbean, a group working to protect and restore marine ecosystems, agreed: "Our aim is to make coral restoration a new livelihood opportunity for coastal communities in the Caribbean, especially vulnerable fisherfolk who often have few options for work."
And with sea levels rising, the islanders face another challenge: protecting Salt Whistle Bay's pristine beach from erosion as the strong surf on the other side of a narrow isthmus threatens to break through.
After three days exploring and snorkeling on Mayreau, we sailed an hour east aboard the Wind Kat to Tobago Cays. According to locals, commerce is allowed on only one of the Cays, Petit Bateau, where Big Mama Beach B.B.Q. sells beers and snacks on the beach and an entrepreneur named Captain Neil sets out a daily lobster feast on picnic tables. But visitors and merchants alike must remove all their gear after dinner and leave the island for the night, though sleeping on boats offshore is allowed.
The Tahiti of the Caribbean
After a day and night in the Cays, we set a course toward a shadow that resembled a reclining dragon on the horizon. Union Island, spiky with pitons, is sometimes called the Tahiti of the Caribbean, and after the quiet isolation of the marine park, it felt like a return to civilization. With a population of about 3,000, it has an A.T.M., a bustling produce market and at least two coffee shops with espresso machines.
Union Island charmed us with its ingenuity and efforts to increase sustainability. Its power grid has been fully solar since 2019. And after developers bulldozed a lagoon, then abandoned the project in bankruptcy, a local organization stepped in and replanted mangroves, which filter water, provide nurseries for fish and protect the coastline from storm surges. The restored lagoon is now home to turtles, rays and the occasional snorkeler.
"The idea is for us to create a green destination, minimize damage to the natural environment, try to prevent overcrowding, while using what the community is already engaged in, and leverage them as things travelers would be interested in," said Stanton Gomes, the chairman of the Union Island Tourism Board.
We left the yachties and the Wind Kat behind and checked into a hotel, where we savored our first hot shower in six days. "Sailing the islands" has a luxurious tang, but unless you're aboard a superyacht, you're essentially camping on the water.
Reward for a rough passage
The Grenadines may all be part of one volcanic string of islands, but they belong to two separate nations. Crossing the border from Union Island to Carriacou, Grenada, was a relatively short boat ride -- and a longer bureaucratic voyage.
We spent the morning hanging around the dock looking for a boat to take us over. The weather was taking a turn for the worse when we finally found a captain. Among his various gigs, he navigated his single-motor craft several times a week over to Carriacou and loaded plastic tanks of fuel to sell on Union Island, which lost its only gas station in a deadly 2020 explosion.
After a drenching ride across the swells, we docked with some relief and joined the line at a dark customs warehouse, where we spent about an hour with fidgeting yachties and local merchants, sharing the vibe of a rare moment when the line between tourist and resident blurred.
After clearing customs, we checked into the waterfront Green Roof Inn, furnished with old leather chairs and mosquito-net-shrouded beds, and ventured out at dusk as the tree frogs whistled. We considered renting a scooter from the wonderfully diversified Wayne's Car Rental and Bar, but the videos of Caribbean hip-hop artists like Koffee and Popcaan playing on a big screen there drew us in, and we lingered late into the night nursing Carib beers instead.
The next morning, we hiked a steep trail to a jungle redoubt called the KIDO Foundation, founded decades ago as an animal sanctuary and an environmental school. Tiny boas lay coiled in hollowed-out coconut-shell bird feeders, a colony of fruit bats hung from a ceiling in one meeting room, and a rescued one-winged hawk perched inside a room-size cage.
KIDO offers a variety of voluntourism opportunities, including patrols to protect turtle nesting sites. The group has planted tens of thousands of mangroves and offers a Green College after-school program that, among other projects, teaches island students how to nurture and plant indigenous trees nearly wiped out by colonial cravings for exotic wood.
In the dark before dawn the next day, we boarded our last ferry, to Grenada, called the Spice Island for its nutmeg, clove and cinnamon production. To get there, the ship barreled over Kick 'Em Jenny, an active underwater volcano that occasionally belches gases so dangerous that boats must change course. Jenny wasn't kicking that day.
In the warm breeze, facing backward, we watched the Grenadines dwindle into the pink horizon. Frigate birds and boobies drifted above the deck, sometimes resting on the radar array before plunging toward a meal. On all sides, the sea undulated, the color of mercury. For two hours, sleepy passengers dozed and rocked. On this last crossing of our voyage from speck to speck of land, everything -- water, flora, fauna and human -- seemed to be living in sync.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places for a Changed World for 2022.
Photograph Top, Tobago Cays Marine Park in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Above, Captain Neil's daily lobster feast on Petit Bateau. A sea turtle in Tobago Cays Marine Park, far left, and a goat on Mayreau, near left. Below, the writer aboard the Wind Kat, a 34-foot catamaran and floating Airbnb. (C7); The view from the waterfront Green Roof Inn on Carriacou. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK FREELAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C8) This article appeared in print on page C7, C8.

Subject: Islands; Ferries; Electricity distribution

Location: Canouan; Carriacou; Tahiti; Grenadines

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/27/travel/caribbean-st-vincent-grenadines.html

Title: Waterworld: Island Hopping in the Grenadines:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 7, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761463082

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/waterworld-island-hopping-grenadines/docview/2761463082/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Wild Weather Swings Are Robbing California of Its Trees

Author: Hubler, Shawn; Cowan, Jill

Publication info: Hubler, Shawn; Cowan, Jill. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-weather-swings-are-robbing-california-trees/docview/2761299806/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — The coast redwood crashed through the roof and into Nicole Valentine’s bedroom while she was away at a party, trying to ignore the powerful storms that were hammering Northern California with fierce winds and rain. On the phone, her neighbor was almost incoherent.
“She’s like, ‘A tree just fell on your house! I smell gas! I called 911!’” said Valentine, a mother of two and a lawyer in Sacramento. “I said, ‘Wait — what?’ Thank goodness no one was at home but our labradoodle, Charlie. My husband ran home immediately.”
In the days since that call on New Year’s Eve, cumulative storms have pummeled California — and Valentine and her family have huddled in an Airbnb with Charlie, who survived unharmed. As they have tried to schedule insurance adjusters, versions of their terrifying experience have proliferated across the nation’s most populous state.
Stressed by drought, whipped by wind and weakened at the roots by relentless rain and flooding, trees — tall and short, ancient and young, in mountain preserves and suburban yards — have toppled across California this week in breathtaking numbers, the most visible sign of a state veering between environmental extremes.
A procession of atmospheric rivers has interrupted an epic drought responsible for the driest three years on California record. The sudden swing from scarcity to excess with back-to-back storms is testing the state’s infrastructure broadly, straining the power grid, levees, drainage systems and roads from the Pacific Coast to the Sierra Nevada.
On Thursday, the pressure mounted as rain swelled rivers and snowy whiteouts obscured mountain passes. In San Francisco, trains were delayed amid systemwide disruptions on the Bay Area Rapid Transit. In Santa Cruz County, a tidal surge carried off parts of piers and forced the city of Santa Cruz to close its wharf as a safety measure. In Southern California, huge waves threatened lifeguard towers in Los Angeles County and flooded the Pacific Coast Highway in Huntington Beach, as the rain moved southward.
By Friday morning, tens of thousands of customers, mostly in Northern California, were still without power as communities prepared for yet another round of drenching rain. Forecasters with the National Weather Service in the Bay Area said the next atmospheric river was expected to arrive late Friday and spread south to central California on Saturday, raising the risk of more flooding and mudslides across the northern section of the state. Farther inland and around the Sacramento area, conditions were expected to be equally dangerous.
If the storm had a theme, it was in the uprooted and broken trees that seemed to blanket the rain-soaked landscape — a loss and a hazard that the director of the state water resources department, Karla Nemeth, had warned would be “the signature of this particular event.”
Falling trees slammed into power lines on the Central Coast, shut down Highway 101 in Humboldt County and snarled rail service in Burlingame and San Francisco. They injured a California Highway Patrol officer at a crash scene in San Jose and ensnared cars on rain-soaked roads in Marin County. On Wednesday, fire officials said, a redwood in the Sonoma County community of Occidental crashed into a mobile home, killing a toddler.
In the Fruitvale neighborhood of Oakland, a tree crashed through a public-housing apartment Wednesday, where Victoria James lives with her adult daughter, her two younger children and her 3-year-old granddaughter. “Everything shook and went black,” James said. “I thought it was an earthquake.”
When she saw branches poking through her ceiling and more limbs falling, she said, she grabbed the children and started running.
“There were live wires everywhere,” she said. “My neighbors had to direct us because it was pitch black out. We just left with what we had on our backs. Literally ran out — one kid didn’t even have on tennis shoes.”
In Sacramento, which bills itself as the “City of Trees,” the atmospheric rivers claimed nearly 1,000 trees in six days, according to the city’s urban forester, Kevin Hocker, who called the toll “much more than we’ve seen in other storms.” He estimated that 60 fell in one city park alone.
On the state Capitol grounds, a short distance from the spot where Gov. Gavin Newsom was being inaugurated for a second term on Friday, a giant sequoia lay uprooted, felled by the storms and surrounded with hazard tape and scattered drifts of branches; its fall sheared the limbs off one side of a nearby Torrey pine. Paula Peper, a retired U.S. Forest Service urban ecologist in Sacramento, estimated that the giant sequoia had stood for 80 to 100 years, through as many as 18 governors.
At Sacramento City College, a downed cedar, huge and fragrant, blocked the entrance to campus. In a manicured neighborhood near the American River, Marco Leyva, a local landscaper, scrambled to retrieve fallen tree limbs, his truck piled high with redwood, oak and liquid amber. Some, he said, appeared to have fallen partway in the New Year’s Eve storm, “and then the wind this time just knocked them down.”
The toll on trees is more than ornamental and nostalgic. At critical juncture in adapting to climate change, scientists say that trees are a physical barometer and manifestation of failure and success.
In California cities, the urban canopy is a critical piece of environmental infrastructure, cooling sidewalks, cleansing air, creating wildlife habitat and giving people of all socioeconomic backgrounds respite from intensifying heat waves. In more remote places, where disease and drought have already turned vast tracts of wilderness into kindling, the fallen trees, unless they are quickly cleared, invite wildfire and pests.
In a news conference, Nemeth blamed the horticultural devastation on the drought as well as the violent weather. “We’re moving from extreme drought to extreme flood,” she said. “What that means is a lot of our trees are stressed.”
At the same time, weather systems shifted by climate change have amplified wind and precipitation, said Jeffrey Mount, a senior fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California’s Water Policy Center. Last weekend’s storm was very wet — essentially, an atmospheric fire hose hanging over California — but this week’s “bomb cyclone” storm brought much more wind, Mount said.
The one-two punch of ever more saturated soil and speeding winds, scientists say, has made it tougher for trees to stay upright.
“It is not a surprise when we start getting these 50- to 70-mile-per-hour gusts that these big, old trees that are stressed and have their feet planted in what is essentially mud at this point — they fall over,” Mount said. “An astonishing number of these big trees go toes up in these big storms.”
Emily Griswold, director of horticulture and teaching gardens at the University of California, Davis Arboretum, said the swings between climate extremes have left even healthy trees more vulnerable. On New Year’s Eve, about 15 thriving trees at the arboretum uprooted — including a “beautiful, healthy” Guadalupe Island cypress planted in 1936.
She and her colleagues research which trees and plants would be best to help shade cities and which would be able to thrive in a rapidly changing California.
Much of their research so far has focused on extreme heat and drought. But the recent storms have shown that those inquiries must expand, she said.
“It’s like heat, drought, flood — hell or high water,” Griswold said. “We’re definitely looking closely at what fails, why did it fail, what can we learn from this and how can we plant more wisely in the future?”
Brian Ferguson, a spokesperson for the California Governor’s Office of Emergency Services, said the thousands of downed trees have been among the biggest challenges the state has encountered in managing public safety in this storm system. Falling trees not only threaten buildings and power lines, he said, but can damage levees by toppling near waterways where branches and debris can be propelled downstream.
The new climate reality, he said, has meant that disasters intertwine and compound one another: Drought worsens and lengthens fire seasons. Global warming intensifies heat waves. Precipitation that can no longer fall as snow lands as a deluge, and flora and fauna strain to survive the ecological disruption.
The current disasters, and the living things that endure them, Ferguson said, underscore the reality that “we are one planet.”
“I’m not a scientist, just a dad with two eyes and a brain, but it’s so clear that the world is changing around us,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Precipitation; Drought; Wind; Floods; Power; Roads & highways; Trees; New year; Storm damage; Climate change; Rain; Cities; Homeless encampments

Location: New York; United States--US; Sacramento California; Northern California; California; San Francisco California

Identifier / keyword: Gavin Newsom; Nevada; Huntington Beach (Calif); Oakland (Calif); Los Angeles (Calif); United States; University Of California, Davis; Marin County (Calif); Airbnb; Sacramento City College; Sierra Nevada Region (Us); Public Policy Institute Of California; Sonoma County (Calif); Santa Cruz County (Calif); San Jose (Calif); Occidental College; San Francisco (Calif); Forest Service; Santa Cruz (Calif); Burlingame (Calif); Humboldt County (Calif); Bay Area Rapid Transit; Sacramento (Calif); University Of California; Los Angeles County (Calif); Us Route 101 (Calif); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Highway 1 (Calif); California; National Weather Service; Children And Childhood; Anxiety And Stress; Infrastructure (Public Works); Snow And Snowstorms; Electric Light And Power; Politics And Government; Wildfires; Rivers; Forests And Forestry; Seasons And Months; Wind; Gardens And Gardening; Landslides And Mudslides; Workplace Environment; Rain; Public And Subsidized Housing; Heat And Heat Waves; Water Pollution; Transit Systems; Deaths (Fatalities); Power Failures And Blackouts; Accidents And Safety; Disasters And Emergencies; New Year; Global Warming; Heatstroke; Levees And Dams; Roads And Traffic; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Drought; Flowers And Plants; Floods; Weather; Trees And Shrubs

Title: Wild Weather Swings Are Robbing California of Its Trees

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-06 @ 18:12

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761299806

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-weather-swings-are-robbing-california-trees/docview/2761299806/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Breaking In Without Breaking Apart: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Ryzik, Melena

Publication info: Ryzik, Melena. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/breaking-without-apart/docview/2759760556/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Country songs are often filled with tragedy and hard times. Price has detailed her own catalog of traumas in a memoir and her music, but also turns her lens outward on a new LP, "Strays."
NASHVILLE -- The alt-country musician Margo Price has a contrarian streak, and a wild one. When she was preparing to write her fourth album, "Strays," in 2020, she and her husband and musical partner, Jeremy Ivey, decamped from their cozy family home in the suburbs here, and rented an Airbnb in Charleston, S.C. They brought guitars and notebooks, and a pile of hallucinogenic mushrooms.
Tripping together in the backyard at a Live-Laugh-Love kind of cottage, listening to Tom Petty, Patti Smith and Bob Dylan, the couple reconnected and tried to "generate new sounds, new rhythms, new styles," Price said, after a tumultuous period when her husband was gravely ill with the coronavirus. "It was, you know, big emotions and laughing hysterically in the kitchen, and then the next moment, I'm like, 'I love you so much, don't ever die,"' she said in an interview at her neo-Tudor home near Nashville.
They wrote 20 songs, including the first two singles on "Strays," which is out Jan. 13 and struts through big-hearted indie country, honky-tonk stomp and '70s guitar-explosion psychedelia. "A lot of times, with the country world, they're like, 'Get in this box, and stay here,"' Price said. "So it was good to be able to paint outside of the lines. The mushrooms definitely helped."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Since her breakthrough studio debut, "Midwest Farmer's Daughter," in 2016, Price, 39, has tunneled her own path through the music industry, sometimes indignantly. She has always had ambition to spare and faith in herself as an artist, even in the face of repeated rejections, as she describes in her memoir, "Maybe We'll Make It," out last October.
"I admire Margo tremendously for her fierceness," said her friend Brittany Howard, the guitarist and singer. "She doesn't back down and she won't become the kind of artist that the industry wants her to be. She is the kind of artist that cannot be manufactured."
Despite the friendship and cheerleading of legends like Willie Nelson, who duetted with her on her second album, Price has never felt welcome in the country establishment, she said. (She has yet to be invited to the genre's flagship honors, the Country Music Awards.) Even a Grammy nomination for best new artist at the 2019 ceremony left her feeling like an outsider, when she wasn't invited to perform or present (she was also pregnant at the time).
She fretted about seeming irrelevant and losing the career momentum that she had worked to accrue over decades in Nashville if she stayed home with her daughter, Ramona, who was born in 2019.
"I think it was actually only four and a half weeks after my C-section that I had opening dates with Chris Stapleton," she said. So she got back on the tour bus. "Just put the Spanx on, and had my breast pump out, just rolling down the road with a baby and a 9-year-old" -- her son Judah -- "and a crew, and a band."
The pandemic stopped that trajectory. But Price found another outlet in writing her memoir, which chronicles her hardscrabble, super-broke but resolute early years in Nashville; meeting Ivey, who is her co-songwriter and guitarist; getting pregnant as newlyweds while living under the poverty line; and the devastating loss of their child. Judah's twin brother, Ezra, died two weeks after their birth in 2010, following surgery for a genetic heart condition. She had only been able to hold him once.
His death sent her into an emotional spiral -- for three years, she had a recurring nightmare about not being able to save a drowning infant. She was unfaithful to her husband, and he followed suit, as she writes in the book, and she descended further into alcohol abuse. And then there was "Midwest Farmer's Daughter," a deeply autobiographical album about her family (she was born and raised in tiny Aledo, Ill.) and her flaws. "Hurtin' (On the Bottle)," a barroom wallop, became one of her signature tunes.
To help pay for the recording, at Sun Studios in Memphis, Price pawned her engagement ring. Ivey got it back, but sold their car instead. "It was the most romantic thing he had ever done for me," she wrote.
On her book tour last fall, Price met fans and heard other stories of profound loss, doling out hugs and speaking to audience members for sometimes two hours after a reading.
"As a musician and a writer, you think, 'I'm doing this because it brings me joy,"' she said. "But when somebody else is like, hey, you got me through my divorce; you got me through this really tough time -- I lost my mom to cancer, and I just listened to your record a lot. I'm like, yes, tell me about that, I need to hear that."
She started therapy only after she finished writing the book. When she turned in the final draft, "I started having all these, almost like panic attacks," she said. "I was worried about people judging me." She also quit drinking; her book editor had observed that "whiskey was like a character" in the pages, she said. (She still smokes weed and savors her mushroom trips, both substances she feels help clarify her vision -- though even that, she worried, might make her seem like a bad mother. Do musician fathers get that rap?).
Sitting cross-legged on a black leather couch in an airy living room furnished with vintage furniture and musical mementos, Price reflected on a life that would buckle many people.
"When I wrote 'Midwest Farmer's Daughter,' and when I put that album out, I was tortured," she said. Her two dogs slept with their heads on her lap, and her two cats prowled inside and out (the Price-Ivey home covers six acres, leading up to woods and surrounded by moonshine stills).
That songwriting was also "my first practice of being vulnerable," she continued, adding that until that point, she had focused on being "tough" to avoid revealing her weaknesses.
"But as the book and everything has evolved, I think that has grown as one of my strengths, and I've learned not to be embarrassed by it."
Especially now that she's (mostly) sober, "I feel really creatively in a good place," she said. "I'm feeling my emotions more deeply than I have in a really long time, even though I thought, back then, that there was some kind of magic to feeling like garbage."
As Ivey went to pick up Judah, now 12, Price gave me a tour of their home -- the wood-paneled studio, with her drum kit and a prized guitar autographed by the likes of Dolly Parton and Emmylou Harris; her custom closet, with a neat rainbow of cowboy boots and a typewriter she often used for developing songs. "Jeremy can create in front of all sorts of people," she said of her husband, also a solo artist. "But I feel exposed, like I don't want anyone to hear all the bad notes and dumb ideas. So, I come hide in here."
Howard met her a decade ago, singing background vocals together in Nashville, she said. Their friendship came naturally: "She is so welcoming, genuine and fun to be around," Howard wrote in an email. "We'd stay out all night laughing and sharing music and philosophy and just encouraging each other that we were on the right track."
She often ended the night crashing on Price and Ivey's couch. These days, the women like to go fishing together -- catching bass and feasting on Howard's peanut butter and raw garlic sandwiches. "She's just like, don't knock it until you try it," Price said.
They were bonded by their perseverance, Howard said. "I was told 'no' a lot very early on in my life. Mostly because of the way I looked," she said. "When people don't give you the space, you have to absolutely carve it out for yourself."
"That practice creates a resilience inside of us," she added. "It's a great power to be able to fall to pieces and put yourself back together bigger, better and stronger"
Part of Price's stability comes from Ivey, to whom she's been married 14 years, and writing and touring with even longer. Songwriting "definitely draws us together when other things are pushing us apart," she said.
They've earned their industry savvy, too: In her early years, as she writes in the book, she invented a manager, "John Sirota" -- complete with a fake Myspace page and booking site -- to give her more cred and send cajoling (or demanding) messages to club owners and bookers. (It worked -- the band got more gigs with John running the show than when Price signed the emails herself.)
Recently, when her label, Loma Vista, wanted her to bring in collaborators, "I tricked them into thinking that I was writing with one of Taylor Swift's co-writers," she said. Using an industry pal's connection, she sent over some demos -- "'Check them out, see if you like these more than the ones that me and Jeremy wrote.' Well, meanwhile, it was just a song that I wrote." The track, the boppy "Radio," made the album, with Sharon Van Etten filling it out.
They are "mother musician friends," Price said -- a rare breed that make it seem possible, if still enormously complicated, to tour while being a mom. (To make Price's two-musician-parent household work, her mother lives with them.) Along with Mimi Parker from Low, Price "was one of the first moms I talked to, that I look up to," Van Etten said. "They always just said, 'you figure it out."'
"Radio" could be the lament of a working mother during the pandemic, with lines about being exhausted and pleading to be left alone. But Van Etten said the magic of Price's songwriting was that anybody can find themselves reflected in it. "Radio" is "how we feel as moms trying to find our own space," she said. "But it can be anyone trying to have a moment, and that feeling of when you're listening to a song, that's all you can hear."
Van Etten said Price's skill at using the vernacular of traditional country -- "the double-entendres and the turnarounds" -- to talk about issues like the gender wage gap, offered a blueprint for other left-of-center artists. Especially watching her in an early, career turning-point performance on "Saturday Night Live" in 2016, she said, "I just felt like she was a role model that actually had something to say."
"Of course her range is insane," she added. "As much as her delivery -- she can be sweet as much as sassy. She has an edge to her vocals that you don't hear much in country music right now." (In her memoir, Price writes about how self-doubt had her up partying all night before the "S.N.L." performance; she was also diagnosed with strep throat hours beforehand.)
Lately, Price has made her songwriting more narrative and less personal. The single "Lydia," on "Strays," tells the story of an unsettled woman in an abortion clinic. It's conversational and spare, with Price on acoustic guitar. Her producer, Jonathan Wilson, had the idea to juxtapose her live take "with some really weird, atonal strings," he said. Written before the overturning of Roe v. Wade, the six-minute track was well-received and hailed as prescient.
Price is thrilled about any accolades, of course. But where once she was anxious about achieving them, now she wants to let all that go. "I'm trying to just be really happy with all that I've accomplished," she said.
That doesn't mean she's lifted her boot off the gas. "I have actually been writing more songs than I have in a very long time," she noted. She hikes around her property, she listens to the birds; inspiration strikes. "I wake up feeling good every day," she said, adding: "I just feel this urgency. I want to create."
Photograph Margo Price has pushed past rejection in the country music industry, which she chronicled in a recent memoir. Her fourth album, "Strays," out Jan. 13, delves into new genres. Below, Price at the 2022 Stagecoach Festival in Indio, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA MESSINGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SCOTT DUDELSON/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page AR14.

Subject: Autobiographies; Friendship; Musicians & conductors; Books; Musical performances

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/29/arts/music/margo-price-strays.html

Title: Breaking In Without Breaking Apart:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 1, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United S tates

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2759760556

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/breaking-without-apart/docview/2759760556/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions