____________________________________________________________

Tesla Price Cuts Take Toll On Profits From Car Sales In Fierce E.V. Competition: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-price-cuts-take-toll-on-profits-car-sales/docview/2918055983/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A tax benefit boosted quarterly earnings, but that masked a decline in earnings from carmaking caused by intensifying competition.
Tesla's profit from sales of electric cars slumped in the last three months of last year because of price cuts intended to thwart increasingly intense competition, the company said on Wednesday as it warned of a tough year ahead.
Profit in the fourth quarter nearly doubled to $ 7.9 billion, up from $ 3.7 billion a year earlier. But $ 5.9 billion of that profit came from a tax benefit. Without that one-time accounting effect, profit would have fallen.
Tesla has slashed prices for the two cars that make up the bulk of its sales -- the Model 3 sedan and the Model Y sport utility vehicle -- as automakers like BYD, in China, and General Motors, Hyundai, Ford Motor and Volkswagen, in the United States and Europe, have begun selling more electric vehicles.
The price cuts have helped Tesla sell more cars and forced other carmakers to respond, helping to make electric vehicles more affordable. But the cuts have weighed on Tesla's profit. In 2022, Tesla was one of the most profitable carmakers in the world, but its margins from vehicle sales have fallen by almost one-third in the last year and are now comparable to those of other large rivals.
Because of the price cuts, sales revenue from cars last quarter rose just 1 percent from a year earlier, to $ 21.6 billion -- even though Tesla sold 1.8 million cars in 2023, a 35 percent increase from 2022. Tesla made up some of the difference by reducing manufacturing costs.
Tesla shares slumped about 6 percent in after-hours trading after the company said it expected sales growth to be "notably slower" in 2024 as it developed a budget-priced vehicle. Elon Musk, Tesla's chief executive, said during a conference call Wednesday that the vehicle, whose design is still a secret, might be available by late 2025.
"That will be a challenge," he cautioned, because of new technology being developed to manufacture the car at a lower cost.
At Wednesday's close, Tesla stock was 17 percent below where it started the year and down more than 25 percent from its 12-month high in July.
The carmaker faces an array of challenges this year, including economic uncertainty in all of its major markets and questions about the future role of Mr. Musk. He surprised investors this month when he said on X, the social media site he owns, that he wanted the Tesla board to raise his stake in the company to 25 percent, from 13 percent, effectively giving him shares worth more than $ 80 billion.
If he doesn't get his wish, Mr. Musk said, he will develop new artificial intelligence products "outside of Tesla." Tesla's board has not responded publicly.
Mr. Musk said Wednesday that he needed 25 percent to protect him from being ousted "by some sort of random shareholder advisory firm." He added, "There's a lot of activists that basically infiltrate those organizations and have, you know, strange ideas about what should be done."
Mr. Musk did not clarify how Tesla's board could grant him a stake worth $ 80 billion without diluting the value of Tesla shares.
The automaker commands more than half the electric vehicle market in the United States, and it has more models than any other manufacturer that qualify for $ 7,500 tax credits under rules that took effect Jan. 1. Plummeting prices for lithium, cobalt and other materials essential to battery production should help lower manufacturing costs.
Tesla has begun selling the Cybertruck, a pickup that is the company's first new model since the Model Y in 2020. But Tesla remains dependent on the Model 3 and Model Y for sales. BYD and Volkswagen, along with its Audi, Porsche and Skoda brands, offer larger selections of vehicles.
Tesla said Wednesday that the cost of ramping up production of the Cybertruck had weighed on profit, and that it would take longer than usual to produce the vehicle in large volumes because of a complex manufacturing process. The truck's body is made of stainless steel, which resists rust and is more durable than the steel used in most cars, but is also harder to shape and weld.
Slowing sales growth for electric vehicles is another challenge. Surveys show that many people are interested in electric vehicles but hesitant to buy because of high prices and concern about finding enough places to charge the cars.
In a setback, Hertz said this month that it would sell some of its fleet of Teslas because they were less profitable than expected, and because some customers struggled with the unfamiliar technology.
Election-year politics add another element of uncertainty for all electric vehicle makers. Former President Donald J. Trump, the front-runner for the Republican nomination, has called electric vehicles a hoax, and his supporters have vowed to roll back Biden administration policies intended to promote the cars and encourage domestic manufacturing.
Senator John Barrasso, a Republican from Wyoming who has endorsed Mr. Trump, recently portrayed electric vehicles as a subsidy for rich liberals at the expense of "hardworking families in my home state."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Corporate profits; Production costs; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Price cuts

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Manufacturing Corporate profits Production costs Automobile sales Price cuts

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/24/business/teslas-electric-vehicles-profit-price-cuts.html

Title: Tesla Price Cuts Take Toll On Profits From Car Sales In Fier ce E.V. Competition:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 25, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918055983

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-price-cuts-take-toll-on-profits-car-sales/docview/2918055983/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tesla Sales Swing Back After Prices Are Slashed: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-sales-swing-back-after-prices-are-slashed/docview/2908992619/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The leading U.S. electric-vehicle maker also drew buyers eager to take advantage of government incentives that will be harder to get in 2024.
Tesla sales jumped during the last three months of 2023 after the carmaker slashed prices and customers rushed to take advantage of tax breaks on electric vehicles -- provisions that will be harder to come by in 2024.
The company said on Tuesday that it sold 484,500 cars in the fourth quarter, up from 435,000 in the third quarter and 405,000 in the fourth quarter of 2022. For the full year, Tesla sold 1.8 million vehicles. The gains put Tesla on track to sell more than two million cars in 2024, potentially overtaking established carmakers like Mercedes-Benz and Renault.
The rebound in sales during the fourth quarter should help calm investor concerns about whether Tesla can defend its dominance of the market for electric vehicles as it faces increased competition from traditional carmakers.
During the last year, Tesla has lost market share to rivals like General Motors, Hyundai, Ford Motor and Volkswagen as they introduced more electric vehicles. Tesla accounts for half the electric cars sold in the United States. In 2022, Tesla accounted for two-thirds of the market.
Another electric vehicle maker, Rivian, said on Tuesday that it sold nearly 14,000 vehicles in the last three months of the year. That number was up substantially from a year earlier but down about 10 percent from the third quarter.
In China, the largest market for electric cars, Tesla faces intense competition from BYD and other Chinese automakers. BYD sold 526,000 fully electric cars worldwide in the fourth quarter, exceeding Tesla, a milestone that many auto analysts had been expecting given the Chinese company's rapid growth.
Chinese automakers have moved faster in offering a wide range of affordable electric models as the market has expanded beyond the affluent early adopters of technology. They are the core customers who have bought Teslas for as long as the company has been around.
"The customers who are buying E.V.s now are second adopters, who have fundamentally different needs," said Shay Natarajan, a partner at Mobility Impact Partners, a private equity fund focused on investing in sustainable transportation. "They care about tangible and immediately realizable decreases in total cost of ownership, and they care about convenience."
In Europe, Volkswagen and its Audi and Skoda divisions sell more electric vehicles than Tesla, although the Tesla Model Y is by far the best-selling model on the continent, according to data compiled by Schmidt Automotive Research.
In the United States, people interested in buying an electric car had a strong incentive to take delivery before the end of the year because of new rules intended to cut China out of the supply chain.
Tesla had warned on its website that the two least expensive versions of its Model 3 sedan would no longer qualify for $ 7,500 federal tax credits after Dec. 31. The cars have batteries made in China. Germany and some other European countries have also rolled back subsidies for electric vehicle buyers.
To maintain sales, Tesla cut prices, offering Model 3s on its website for well under $ 30,000 after factoring in the tax credits. By late December, the number of lower-priced cars listed on the website appeared to have dwindled, suggesting that the strategy had succeeded. But the price reductions cut into Tesla profits, which fell 44 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.
Tesla said it would announce earnings for the fourth quarter of 2023 on Jan. 24.
While fewer Teslas will qualify for federal tax credits in 2024, the company is in a better position than most of its competitors. The Performance version of the Model 3, which includes upgraded wheels and brakes, will remain eligible for the subsidy, as will all versions of the Model Y sport utility vehicle, according to a federal government website. Tesla makes batteries for those cars at a Nevada plant operated with Panasonic, allowing it to meet domestic manufacturing requirements.
That gives Tesla a significant advantage over competitors like Ford, which has said that its Mustang Mach-E sport utility vehicle will not qualify for the credit in the new year.
Ford and others rely on manufacturers in China for crucial components. Ford is building battery factories in the United States, but they will not begin producing until 2025.
General Motors has been building batteries at a new factory in Ohio, but has struggled to get the plant operating at full capacity. Initially only the Chevrolet Bolt will qualify for tax credits, G.M. said in December. The Cadillac Lyriq and electric Chevrolet Blazer will no longer be eligible.
G.M. has said it is adjusting its supply chain so that those and other vehicles, including electric versions of the Chevrolet Silverado pickup and Equinox sport utility vehicle, will become eligible early in the year.
Tesla and other carmakers may also benefit from lower interest rates in the new year. Investors are betting that the Federal Reserve and other central banks will start to ratchet down rates as inflation cools.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Supply chains; Prices; Automobile industry; Interest rates; Manufacturing; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Supply chains Automobile industry Interest rates Manufacturing Tax credits Automobile sales Factories

Location: China; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/02/business/tesla-fourth-quarter-sales.html

Title: Tesla Sales Swing Back After Prices Are Slashed:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 3, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2908992619

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-sales-swing-back-after-prices-are-slashed/docview/2908992619/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York's King of the Magnet Fishers: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Conti, Allie

Publication info: Conti, Allie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-yorks-king-magnet-fishers/docview/2907839043/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: James Kane was not afraid of the grenade. Not even a little bit. But he was feeling a rush of adrenaline.
After all, finding an antique weapon in Sheepshead Bay was a big deal for someone who desperately wants to be noticed. A YouTube video of a grenade being pulled from the water along the Brooklyn shoreline could be viral gold. "Some magnet fishers go their whole lives without this happening," Mr. Kane said, pacing the boardwalk excitedly. "I've never won a lottery in my entire life -- even a scratch-off. This is historic. It's pure frickin' insanity. One hundred percent."
Mr. Kane is a magnet fisher, which is exactly what it sounds like: He regularly tosses a magnet into the water to see what comes out. This became an oddly popular hobby during the pandemic, though Mr. Kane claims to be the only person who does it in New York City. This may or may not be true, but he definitely has an insider's perspective on the city's waterways.
He was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Queens, and he spent a year staring at the shore when he had a job with NYC Ferry. He also pulled shifts as a crane operator for a sanitation company, an education in just how much stuff is at the bottom of places like the East River. For the past five months, he has been treating magnet fishing as a full-time job.
The grenade was not without precedent. Two months before, Mr. Kane managed to pull a gun out of a lake near where he lives. It might have been used in a murder, he suggested, and he was told there was a chance he might be subpoenaed. He was eager to avoid that entanglement.
On that unseasonably warm November afternoon, Mr. Kane, who is 39 and looks a bit like the actor Seth Rogen playing a deckhand, just yanked the thing right off his magnet. It took quite a bit of effort, given that the magnet (from Kratos Magnetics, for $ 140) was advertised as having a "pull force" of 3,800 pounds. The gunpowder had been emptied out of the bottom, so he figured the corroded explosive was something that would put him on the map, rather than blow him off it. Still, he put it on the ground and covered it with a plastic bucket -- just in case.
As he dialed 911, he paused to wonder: Would the operator remember him? Was he something of a known quantity by now? Just the week before, he'd found a top-loading Smith & Wesson in Prospect Park Lake. And he'd also found a completely different grenade about a month ago, which he said led the police to evacuate a restaurant near the United Nations. But to his disappointment, that day's dispatcher didn't react.
"You're gonna know Let's Get Magnetic," Mr. Kane told the operator, referencing the name of his YouTube channel. "I'm getting famous."
His partner, Barbie Agostini, continued filming as the police arrived. Two beat cops who showed up took some pictures of the grenade on their phones. Meanwhile, a woman pushed a baby carriage inches away from it. More cops eventually came to cordon off the area, but the content creation did not stop there. Another officer squatted on the ground to take more close-ups. Wanting a wider-angle view of the ruckus he'd wrought, Mr. Kane moved slightly down the sidewalk and kept fishing.
It wasn't long before a well-put-together young woman in a pinned-on hat stopped and stared as Mr. Kane pulled a hunk of junk out of the water with his magnet.
"What are you guys fishing for?" she asked.
"Anything metal," he told her. "This is a bed frame from the 1900s."
The woman looked astounded at this dubious bit of history.
"God bless you," she said.
Several weekends after the grenade, Mr. Kane was celebrating. Let's Get Magnetic had just hit 1,000 subscribers on YouTube. It's a small audience, but it meant he could finally monetize his channel. He, Ms. Agostini, and her 15-year-old son, Jose, were at a pizza joint in the Jamaica Hills neighborhood of Queens. They ordered a large pie and talked about how far they'd come, and what might be next.
Before he'd turned to magnet fishing, Mr. Kane used to stream himself playing video games. Not only was he unsuccessful at making a living that way, but his attempts were detrimental to his health. When he died in a game like "Doom," his blood pressure would spike. "Your body thinks it's dying in real life," he explained. "One hundred percent."
"It took us long enough to get into a relationship," Ms. Agostini said while dousing her slice in oregano flakes. "I don't need you dying on me."
Mr. Kane and Ms. Agostini have known each other practically since birth. The way they tell the story, their moms met on the subway, became drinking buddies, and both decided to adopt children around the same time. When they were young, they were inseparable, but then they lost touch, when Mr. Kane spent some time living on the streets. A job program got him back on his feet, and then he reconnected with Barbie on Facebook.
They became more than friends in 2016 and eventually moved in together, Barbie bringing her son, Jose, and her daughter, Rebecca. Things were going well -- great, actually -- until Covid hit. The schools closed, and then Ms. Agostini needed back surgery. Mr. Kane was forced to resign from the crane operating job he'd grown to like, because someone needed to take care of the children. "The pandemic absolutely destroyed us," he said.
As the sole breadwinner for his new family, Mr. Kane scrambled to come up with a way to work from home. So he tried his hand at streaming until the blood-pressure issues arose. Not to mention all the sitting. His new avocation is much more flexible and more active, which isn't to say it is without risk.
"I would get cut with bike spokes through my gloves," Mr. Kane remembers. "I've been poked by acupuncture needles that someone dumped in Corona Park. There's green slime. I just fought on and got my tetanus shot, and I haven't gotten sick yet."
While Mr. Kane still dreams of finding a treasure chest full of coins, he mostly finds junk. One-off pieces of silverware are still considered a decent score -- they're apparently fine to use after they've been boiled for an hour. But sometimes the family will luck out.
He once found a bag with $ 200 worth of waterlogged bills in it. Another time he found an iPhone 13. The owner let him keep it. It's now what Ms. Agostini, who used to work with developmentally disabled adults before her back surgery, uses to film her family's exploits on the water. She loves her new career as a videographer and internet researcher. "It's the poor man's archaeology," she explained.
Mr. Kane maintains that this iPhone will launch him into YouTube stardom. He speaks reverently about other magnet fishers with hundreds of thousands of subscribers, most of them based in Europe. For his line of work, he recognizes that being in New York is a handicap -- nothing here is that old, and American coins are not magnetic.
He's also not sure he's willing to submerge himself in the hyperpolluted East River to find the really good stuff. But his biggest issue is that everything in the city is so regulated -- he's been threatened with arrest several times, even though he insists that what he does is completely legal. Still, he is storing a cache of weapons at his apartment -- or at least parts of weapons.
After lunch, Mr. Kane, Ms. Agostini and Jose returned to their duplex. Mr. Kane pulled out a Styrofoam chest full of his favorite finds. They included the magazines from four guns, the barrel of a sniper rifle and two tiny cannonballs that might predate the city itself, which he plans on giving to the American Museum of Natural History.
Evidence of a collector's lifestyle exists throughout the apartment -- unopened retro video games and hand-painted Japanese anime figurines covered nearly every spare inch of wall space. Mr. Kane pulled out some tiny pieces of metal from the cooler, one in the shape of a bow and arrow, and another that looked like a ball-peen hammer.
"This is black magic," he said. "One hundred percent." Then came a key fob for an Audi that still lit up when he pressed a button. "This unlocks a car," he said. "We just don't know where the car is." Then came his collection of iPhones, which he proudly displayed on his purple couch. All of them worked. Well, all but one. "It smokes if you turn it on," he said. "But that's the only problem."
Mr. Kane has cast his magnet at dozens of sites so far and has a lead on a spot near Kennedy Airport. And he has a litany of ideas on how to cash in. He wants his family to become famous. And a popular channel could be a way to launch their own line of personal protective equipment that's specific to magnet fishing -- or to sell a slingshot-like device that would allow someone to fling a magnet super far.
But Mr. Kane could just as happily work for the city, helping to clean out ponds and playgrounds. Or he could get hired to teach children about magnet fishing, and therefore the history of New York. Although he claimed that magnet fishing in public made him feel anxious, it was clear he had the personality for such a gig.
You could tell by the way he worked the boardwalk in Sheepshead Bay.
A crowd was also beginning to form from a nearby park and the dialysis center across the street, including some metal detectorists and people who'd collected coins in their youth. Even if he'd yet to become famous, Mr. Kane was clearly enjoying putting on a show. He was yukking it up as he pulled a shopping cart from Marshall's out of the water. People gasped and jumped up onto park benches as he pulled up a giant pipe, its occupant slithering out and skittering all over the place. A live eel in Brooklyn!
As he was waiting for someone to deal with the grenade, Mr. Kane also managed to pull three bicycles, a vintage municipal trash can and a kitchen sink onto Emmons Avenue. He hauled in a car boot, which supposedly can't be removed from an illegally parked car without destroying the wheel it is clamped to. It was unclear how it ended up in Sheepshead Bay.
Finally, the bomb squad arrived. A man in a white zip-up sweater stepped over the yellow tape and peered at the grenade. As he picked it up and took it back toward the van he'd arrived in, Mr. Kane yelled from down the block, as if he was trying to flag down an A-list celebrity for a selfie. He mostly wanted to know if he could keep his find as a souvenir, though the officer had to inform him that the charge in this World War II-era training grenade was still active. So the answer was a definite no.
Mr. Kane was disappointed, but he considered that he'd had any dialogue with someone from the bomb squad a huge win for his career as a magnet fisher. After all, who could forget the guy who found a real, live grenade in Brooklyn?
"I almost killed everyone in the area," he said. "But that definitely would have been on the news."
Photograph James Kane magnet fishing in Crotona Park in the Bronx. Mr. Kane, born in Brooklyn and raised in Queens, has been treating magnet fishing as a full-time job for the past five months. He has a YouTube channel, Let's Get Magnetic.; Items that Mr. Kane has pulled from city waters include a gun-shaped Nintendo controller and some iPhones, most of which still work. (MB1); Top, James Kane, center, magnet fishing in Crotona Park in the Bronx while his companion, Barbie Agostini, records him. Above, clockwise from left: Mr. Kane at home; some of his unsalvageable Crotona Park finds; snagging a laptop; and Mr. Kane and Ms. Agostini heading home after a day's work in the park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX KENT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) This article appeared in print on page MB1, MB5.

Subject: Computer & video games; Video recordings; Back surgery; Personal profiles; Pandemics

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/21/nyregion/magnet-fishing.html

Title: New York's King of the Magnet Fishers:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 31, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907839043

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-yorks-king-magnet-fishers/docview/2907839043/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Screams Without Words': Sexual Violence on Oct. 7: [Correction]

Author: Gettleman, Jeffrey; Schwartz, Anat; Sella, Adam; Shaar-Yashuv, Avishag

Publication info: Gettleman, Jeffrey; Schwartz, Anat; Sella, Adam; Shaar-Yashuv, Avishag. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/screams-without-words-sexual-violence-on-oct-7/docview/2907839042/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At first, she was known simply as "the woman in the black dress."
In a grainy video, you can see her, lying on her back, dress torn, legs spread, vagina exposed. Her face is burned beyond recognition and her right hand covers her eyes.
The video was shot in the early hours of Oct. 8 by a woman searching for a missing friend at the site of the rave in southern Israel where, the day before, Hamas terrorists massacred hundreds of young Israelis.
The video went viral, with thousands of people responding, desperate to know if the woman in the black dress was their missing friend, sister or daughter.
One family knew exactly who she was -- Gal Abdush, mother of two from a working-class town in central Israel, who disappeared from the rave that night with her husband.
As the terrorists closed in on her, trapped on a highway in a line of cars of people trying to flee the party, she sent one final WhatsApp message to her family: "You don't understand."
Based largely on the video evidence -- which was verified by The New York Times -- Israeli police officials said they believed that Ms. Abdush was raped, and she has become a symbol of the horrors visited upon Israeli women and girls during the Oct. 7 attacks.
Israeli officials say that everywhere Hamas terrorists struck -- the rave, the military bases along the Gaza border and the kibbutzim -- they brutalized women.
A two-month investigation by The Times uncovered painful new details, establishing that the attacks against women were not isolated events but part of a broader pattern of gender-based violence on Oct. 7.
Relying on video footage, photographs, GPS data from mobile phones and interviews with more than 150 people, including witnesses, medical personnel, soldiers and rape counselors, The Times identified at least seven locations where Israeli women and girls appear to have been sexually assaulted or mutilated.
Four witnesses described in graphic detail seeing women raped and killed at two different places along Route 232, the same highway where Ms. Abdush's half-naked body was found sprawled on the road at a third location.
And The Times interviewed several soldiers and volunteer medics who together described finding more than 30 bodies of women and girls in and around the rave site and in two kibbutzim in a similar state as Ms. Abdush's -- legs spread, clothes torn off, signs of abuse in their genital areas.
Many of the accounts are difficult to bear, and the visual evidence is disturbing to see.
The Times viewed photographs of one woman's corpse that emergency responders discovered in the rubble of a besieged kibbutz with dozens of nails driven into her thighs and groin.
The Times also viewed a video, provided by the Israeli military, showing two dead Israeli soldiers at a base near Gaza who appeared to have been shot directly in their vaginas.
Hamas has denied Israel's accusations of sexual violence. Israeli activists have been outraged that the United Nations Secretary General, António Guterres, and the agency U.N. Women did not acknowledge the many accusations until weeks after the attacks.
Investigators with Israel's top national police unit, Lahav 433, have been steadily gathering evidence but they have not put a number on how many women were raped, saying that most are dead -- and buried -- and that they will never know. No survivors have spoken publicly.
The Israeli police have acknowledged that, during the shock and confusion of Oct. 7, the deadliest day in Israeli history, they were not focused on collecting semen samples from women's bodies, requesting autopsies or closely examining crime scenes. At that moment, the authorities said, they were intent on repelling Hamas and identifying the dead.
A combination of chaos, enormous grief and Jewish religious duties meant that many bodies were buried as quickly as possible. Most were never examined, and in some cases, like at the rave scene, where more than 360 people were slaughtered in a few hours, the bodies were hauled away by the truckload.
That has left the Israeli authorities at a loss to fully explain to families what happened to their loved ones in their final moments. Ms. Abdush's relatives, for instance, never received a death certificate. They are still searching for answers.
In cases of widespread sexual violence during a war, it is not unusual to have limited forensic evidence, experts said.
"Armed conflict is so chaotic," said Adil Haque, a Rutgers law professor and war crimes expert. "People are more focused on their safety than on building a criminal case down the road."
Very often, he said, sex crime cases will be prosecuted years later on the basis of testimony from victims and witnesses.
"The eyewitness might not even know the name of the victim," he added. "But if they can testify as, 'I saw a woman being raped by this armed group,' that can be enough."
'Screams without words'
Sapir, a 26-year-old accountant, has become one of the Israeli police's key witnesses. She does not want to be fully identified, saying she would be hounded for the rest of her life if her last name were revealed.
She attended the rave with several friends and provided investigators with graphic testimony. She also spoke to The Times. In a two-hour interview outside a cafe in southern Israel, she recounted seeing groups of heavily armed gunmen rape and kill at least five women.
She said that at 8 a.m. on Oct. 7, she was hiding under the low branches of a bushy tamarisk tree, just off Route 232, about four miles southwest of the party. She had been shot in the back. She felt faint. She covered herself in dry grass and lay as still as she could.
About 15 meters from her hiding place, she said, she saw motorcycles, cars and trucks pulling up. She said that she saw "about 100 men," most of them dressed in military fatigues and combat boots, a few in dark sweatsuits, getting in and out of the vehicles. She said the men congregated along the road and passed between them assault rifles, grenades, small missiles -- and badly wounded women.
"It was like an assembly point," she said.
The first victim she said she saw was a young woman with copper-color hair, blood running down her back, pants pushed down to her knees. One man pulled her by the hair and made her bend over. Another penetrated her, Sapir said, and every time she flinched, he plunged a knife into her back.
She said she then watched another woman "shredded into pieces." While one terrorist raped her, she said, another pulled out a box cutter and sliced off her breast.
"One continues to rape her, and the other throws her breast to someone else, and they play with it, throw it, and it falls on the road," Sapir said.
She said the men sliced her face and then the woman fell out of view. Around the same time, she said, she saw three other women raped and terrorists carrying the severed heads of three more women.
Sapir provided photographs of her hiding place and her wounds, and police officials have stood by her testimony and released a video of her, with her face blurred, recounting some of what she saw.
Yura Karol, a 22-year-old security consultant, said he was hiding in the same spot, and he can be seen in one of Sapir's photos. He and Sapir were part of a group of friends who had met up at the party. In an interview, Mr. Karol said he barely lifted his head to look at the road but he also described seeing a woman raped and killed.
Since that day, Sapir said, she has struggled with a painful rash that spread across her torso, and she can barely sleep, waking up at night, heart pounding, covered in sweat.
"That day, I became an animal," she said. "I was emotionally detached, sharp, just the adrenaline of survival. I looked at all this as if I was photographing them with my eyes, not forgetting any detail. I told myself: I should remember everything."
That same morning, along Route 232 but in a different location about a mile southwest of the party area, Raz Cohen -- a young Israeli who had also attended the rave and had worked recently in the Democratic Republic of Congo training Congolese soldiers -- said that he was hiding in a dried-up streambed. It provided some cover from the assailants combing the area and shooting anyone they found, he said in an hour-and-a-half interview in a Tel Aviv restaurant.
Maybe 40 yards in front of him, he recalled, a white van pulled up and its doors flew open.
He said he then saw five men, wearing civilian clothes, all carrying knives and one carrying a hammer, dragging a woman across the ground. She was young, naked and screaming.
"They all gather around her," Mr. Cohen said. "She's standing up. They start raping her. I saw the men standing in a half circle around her. One penetrates her. She screams. I still remember her voice, screams without words."
"Then one of them raises a knife," he said, "and they just slaughtered her."
Shoam Gueta, one of Mr. Cohen's friends and a fashion designer, said the two were hiding together in the streambed. He said he saw at least four men step out of the van and attack the woman, who ended up "between their legs." He said that they were "talking, giggling and shouting," and that one of them stabbed her with a knife repeatedly, "literally butchering her."
Hours later, the first wave of volunteer emergency medical technicians arrived at the rave site. In interviews, four of them said that they discovered bodies of dead women with their legs spread and underwear missing -- some with their hands tied by rope and zipties -- in the party area, along the road, in the parking area and in the open fields around the rave site.
Jamal Waraki, a volunteer medic with the nonprofit ZAKA emergency response team, said he could not get out of his head a young woman in a rawhide vest found between the main stage and the bar.
"Her hands were tied behind her back," he said. "She was bent over, half naked, her underwear rolled down below her knees."
Yinon Rivlin, a member of the rave's production team who lost two brothers in the attacks, said that after hiding from the killers, he emerged from a ditch and made his way to the parking area, east of the party, along Route 232, looking for survivors.
Near the highway, he said, he found the body of a young woman, on her stomach, no pants or underwear, legs spread apart. He said her vagina area appeared to have been sliced open, "as if someone tore her apart."
Similar discoveries were made in two kibbutzim, Be'eri and Kfar Aza. Eight volunteer medics and two Israeli soldiers told The Times that in at least six different houses, they had come across a total of at least 24 bodies of women and girls naked or half naked, some mutilated, others tied up, and often alone.
A paramedic in an Israeli commando unit said that he had found the bodies of two teenage girls in a room in Be'eri.
One was lying on her side, he said, boxer shorts ripped, bruises by her groin. The other was sprawled on the floor face down, he said, pajama pants pulled to her knees, bottom exposed, semen smeared on her back.
Because his job was to look for survivors, he said, he kept moving and did not document the scene. Neighbors of the two girls killed -- who were sisters, 13 and 16 -- said their bodies had been found alone, separated from the rest of their family.
The Israeli military allowed the paramedic to speak with reporters on the condition that he not be identified because he serves in an elite unit.
Many of the dead were brought to the Shura military base, in central Israel, for identification. Here, too, witnesses said they saw signs of sexual violence.
Shari Mendes, an architect called up as a reserve soldier to help prepare the bodies of female soldiers for burial, said she had seen four with signs of sexual violence, including some with "a lot of blood in their pelvic areas."
A dentist, Captain Maayan, who worked at the same identification center, said that she had seen at least 10 bodies of female soldiers from Gaza observation posts with signs of sexual violence.
Captain Maayan asked to be identified only by her rank and surname because of the sensitivity of the subject. She said she had seen several bodies with cuts in their vaginas and underwear soaked in blood and one whose fingernails had been pulled out.
The investigation
The Israeli authorities have no shortage of video evidence from the Oct. 7 attacks. They have gathered hours of footage from Hamas body cameras, dashcams, security cameras and mobile phones showing Hamas terrorists killing civilians and many images of mutilated bodies.
But Moshe Fintzy, a deputy superintendent and senior spokesman of Israel's national police, said, "We have zero autopsies, zero," making an O with his right hand.
In the aftermath of the attack, police officials said, forensic examiners were dispatched to the Shura military base to help identify the hundreds of bodies -- Israeli officials say around 1,200 people were killed that day.
The examiners worked quickly to give the agonized families of the missing a sense of closure and to determine, by a process of elimination, who was dead and who was being held hostage in Gaza.
According to Jewish tradition, funerals are held promptly. The result was that many bodies with signs of sexual abuse were put to rest without medical examinations, meaning that potential evidence now lies buried in the ground. International forensic experts said that it would be possible to recover some evidence from the corpses, but that it would be difficult.
Mr. Fintzy said Israeli security forces were still finding imagery that shows women were brutalized. Sitting at his desk at an imposing police building in Jerusalem, he swiped open his phone, tapped and produced the video of the two soldiers shot in the vagina, which he said was recorded by Hamas gunmen and recently recovered by Israeli soldiers.
A colleague sitting next to him, Mirit Ben Mayor, a police chief superintendent, said she believed that the brutality against women was a combination of two ferocious forces, "the hatred for Jews and the hatred for women."
Some emergency medical workers now wish they had documented more of what they saw. In interviews, they said they had moved bodies, cut off zip ties and cleaned up scenes of carnage. Trying to be respectful to the dead, they inadvertently destroyed evidence.
Many volunteers working for ZAKA, the emergency response team, are religious Jews and operate under strict rules that command deep respect for the dead.
"I did not take pictures because we are not allowed to take pictures," said Yossi Landau, a ZAKA volunteer. "In retrospect, I regret it."
There are at least three women and one man who were sexually assaulted and survived, according to Gil Horev, a spokesman for Israel's Ministry of Welfare and Social Affairs. "None of them has been willing to come physically for treatment," he said. Two therapists said they were working with a woman who was gang raped at the rave and was in no condition to talk to investigators or reporters.
The trauma from sexual assault can be so heavy that sometimes survivors do not speak about it for years, several rape counselors said.
"Many people are looking for the golden evidence, of a woman who will testify about what happened to her. But don't look for that, don't put this pressure on this woman," said Orit Sulitzeanu, executive director of the Association of Rape Crisis Centers in Israel. "The corpses tell the story."
The woman in the black dress
One of the last images of Ms. Abdush alive -- captured by a security camera mounted on her front door -- shows her leaving home with her husband, Nagi, at 2:30 a.m. on Oct. 7 for the rave.
He was wearing jeans and a black T-shirt. She was dressed in a short black dress, a black shawl tied around her waist and combat boots. As she struts out, she takes a swig from a glass (her brother-in-law remembers it was Red Bull and vodka) and laughs.
You've got to live life like it's your last moments. That was her motto, her sisters said.
At daybreak, hundreds of terrorists closed in on the party from several directions, blocking the highways leading out. The couple jumped into their Audi, dashing off a string of messages as they moved.
"We're on the border," Ms. Abdush wrote to her family. "We're leaving."
"Explosions."
Her husband made his own calls to his family, leaving a final audio message for his brother, Nissim, at 7:44 a.m. "Take care of the kids," he said. "I love you."
Gunshots rang out, and the message stopped.
That night, Eden Wessely, a car mechanic, drove to the rave site with three friends and found Ms. Abdush sprawled half naked on the road next to her burned car, about nine miles north of the site. She did not see the body of Mr. Abdush.
She saw other burned cars and other bodies, and shot videos of several -- hoping that they would help people to identify missing relatives. When she posted the video of the woman in the black dress on her Instagram story, she was deluged with messages.
"Hi, based on your description of the woman in the black dress, did she have blonde hair?" one message read.
"Eden, the woman you described with the black dress, do you remember the color of her eyes?" another said.
Some members of the Abdush family saw that video and another version of it filmed by one of Ms. Wessely's friends. They immediately suspected that the body was Ms. Abdush, and based on the way her body was found, they feared that she might have been raped.
But they kept alive a flicker of hope that somehow, it wasn't true.
The videos caught the eye of Israeli officials as well -- very quickly after Oct. 7 they began gathering evidence of atrocities. They included footage of Ms. Abdush's body in a presentation made to foreign governments and media organizations, using Ms. Abdush as a representation of violence committed against women that day.
A week after her body was found, three government social workers appeared at the gate of the family's home in Kiryat Ekron, a small town in central Israel. They broke the news that Ms. Abdush, 34, had been found dead.
But the only document the family received was a one-page form letter from Israel's president, Isaac Herzog, expressing his condolences and sending a hug. The body of Mr. Abdush, 35, was identified two days after his wife's. It was badly burned and investigators determined who he was based on a DNA sample and his wedding ring.
The couple had been together since they were teenagers. To the family, it seems only yesterday that Mr. Abdush was heading off to work to fix water heaters, a bag of tools slung over his shoulder, and Ms. Abdush was cooking up mashed potatoes and schnitzel for their two sons, Eliav, 10, and Refael, 7.
The boys are now orphans. They were sleeping over at an aunt's the night their parents were killed. Ms. Abdush's mother and father have applied for permanent custody, and everyone is chipping in to help.
Night after night, Ms. Abdush's mother, Eti Bracha, lies in bed with the boys until they drift off. A few weeks ago, she said she tried to quietly leave their bedroom when the younger boy stopped her.
"Grandma," he said, "I want to ask you a question."
"Honey," she said, "you can ask anything."
"Grandma, how did mom die?"
Photograph The family of Gal Abdush, an Israeli whose burned, partly naked body was found after Oct. 7. Her husband, Nagi, was also killed. (A1); Eti Bracha, left, and her husband, Eli, at their house in Kiryat Ekron, Israel. Their daughter Gal Abdush and her husband, Nagi, were murdered, their bodies burned beyond recognition, on Oct. 7.; Shari Mendes, a reservist working in body identification, on Dec. 10 in a container where bodies were stored before being taken to an Army morgue. (A10); Yossi Landau, left, an emergency-response volunteer, said he regretted not having documented attackers' atrocities. Raz Cohen, right, a survivor who hid from the invaders, described their rape and murder of a woman. Mr. Bracha, below, held a gold necklace with a picture of the Abdushes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AVISHAG SHAAR-YASHUV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); An aerial view on Oct. 11 of the site of the rave overrun by terrorists. Emergency workers who rushed to the site said they found bodies of dead women with their legs spread and underwear missing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10, A11.

Subject: Evidence; Witnesses; Testimony; Terrorism; Rape; Roads & highways; Violence; Military bases; Atrocities; Women; Criminal investigations; Sex crimes; Massacres; Military personnel

Location: Israel; Gaza Strip

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Title: 'Screams Without Words': Sexual Violence on Oct. 7:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 31, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2907839042

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/screams-without-words-sexual-violence-on-oct-7/docview/2907839042/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2023

Last updated: 2024-03-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

‘Screams Without Words’: How Hamas Weaponized Sexual Violence on Oct. 7

Author: Gettleman, Jeffrey; Schwartz, Anat; Sella, Adam

Publication info: Gettleman, Jeffrey; Schwartz, Anat; Sella, Adam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/screams-without-words-how-hamas-weaponized-sexual/docview/2907795086/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
At first, she was known simply as “the woman in the black dress.”
In a grainy video, you can see her, lying on her back, dress torn, legs spread, vagina exposed. Her face is burned beyond recognition, and her right hand covers her eyes.
The video was shot in the early hours of Oct. 8 by a woman searching for a missing friend at the site of the rave in southern Israel where, the day before, Hamas terrorists massacred hundreds of young Israelis.
The video went viral, with thousands of people responding, desperate to know if the woman in the black dress was their missing friend, sister or daughter.
One family knew exactly who she was: Gal Abdush, mother of two from a working-class town in central Israel, who disappeared from the rave that night with her husband.
As the terrorists closed in on her, trapped on a highway in a line of cars of people trying to flee the party, she sent one final WhatsApp message to her family: “You don’t understand.”
Based largely on the video evidence — which was verified by The New York Times — Israeli police officials said they believed that Abdush was raped, and she has become a symbol of the horrors visited upon Israeli women and girls during the Oct. 7 attacks.
Israeli officials say that everywhere Hamas terrorists struck — the rave, the military bases along the Gaza Strip border and the kibbutzim — they brutalized women.
A two-month investigation by the Times uncovered painful new details, establishing that the attacks against women were not isolated events but part of a broader pattern of gender-based violence on Oct. 7.
Relying on video footage, photographs, GPS data from mobile phones and interviews with more than 150 people, including witnesses, medical personnel, soldiers and rape counselors, the Times identified at least seven locations where Israeli women and girls appear to have been sexually assaulted or mutilated.
Four witnesses described in graphic detail seeing women raped and killed at two different places along Route 232, the same highway where Abdush’s half-naked body was found sprawled on the road at a third location.
And the Times interviewed several soldiers and volunteer medics who together described finding more than 30 bodies of women and girls in and around the rave site and in two kibbutzim in a similar state as Abdush’s — legs spread, clothes torn off, signs of abuse in their genital areas.
Many of the accounts are difficult to bear, and the visual evidence is disturbing to see.
The Times viewed photographs of one woman’s corpse that emergency responders discovered in the rubble of a besieged kibbutz with dozens of nails driven into her thighs and groin.
The Times also viewed a video, provided by the Israeli military, showing two dead Israeli soldiers at a base near Gaza who appeared to have been shot directly in their vaginas.
Hamas has denied Israel’s accusations of sexual violence. Israeli activists have been outraged that U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres and the agency U.N. Women did not acknowledge the many accusations until weeks after the attacks.
Investigators with Israel’s top national police unit, Lahav 433, have been steadily gathering evidence, but they have not put a number on how many women were raped, saying that most are dead — and buried — and that they will never know. No survivors have spoken publicly.
Israeli police have acknowledged that during the shock and confusion of Oct. 7, the deadliest day in Israeli history, they were not focused on collecting semen samples from women’s bodies, requesting autopsies or closely examining crime scenes. At that moment, authorities said, they were intent on repelling Hamas and identifying the dead.
A combination of chaos, enormous grief and Jewish religious duties meant that many bodies were buried as quickly as possible. Most were never examined, and in some cases, like at the rave scene, where more than 360 people were slaughtered in a few hours, the bodies were hauled away by the truckload.
That has left Israeli authorities at a loss to fully explain to families what happened to their loved ones in their final moments. Abdush’s relatives, for instance, never received a death certificate. They are still searching for answers.
In cases of widespread sexual violence during a war, it is not unusual to have limited forensic evidence, experts said.
“Armed conflict is so chaotic,” said Adil Haque, a Rutgers law professor and war crimes expert. “People are more focused on their safety than on building a criminal case down the road.”
Very often, he said, sex crime cases will be prosecuted years later on the basis of testimony from victims and witnesses.
“The eyewitness might not even know the name of the victim,” he added. “But if they can testify as, ‘I saw a woman being raped by this armed group,’ that can be enough.”
‘Screams Without Words’
Sapir, a 24-year-old accountant, has become one of the Israeli police’s key witnesses. She does not want to be fully identified, saying she would be hounded for the rest of her life if her last name were revealed.
She attended the rave with several friends and provided investigators with graphic testimony. She also spoke to the Times. In a two-hour interview outside a cafe in southern Israel, she recounted seeing groups of heavily armed gunmen rape and kill at least five women.
She said that at 8 a.m. Oct. 7, she was hiding under the low branches of a bushy tamarisk tree, just off Route 232, about 4 miles southwest of the party. She had been shot in the back. She felt faint. She covered herself in dry grass and lay as still as she could.
About 50 feet from her hiding place, she said, she saw motorcycles, cars and trucks pulling up. She said that she saw “about 100 men,” most of them dressed in military fatigues and combat boots, a few in dark sweatsuits, getting in and out of the vehicles. She said the men congregated along the road and passed among them assault rifles, grenades, small missiles — and badly wounded women.
“It was like an assembly point,” she said.
The first victim she said she saw was a young woman with copper-color hair, blood running down her back, pants pushed down to her knees. One man pulled her by the hair and made her bend over. Another penetrated her, Sapir said, and every time she flinched, he plunged a knife into her back.
She said she then watched another woman “shredded into pieces.” While one terrorist raped her, she said, another pulled out a box cutter and sliced off her breast.
“One continues to rape her, and the other throws her breast to someone else, and they play with it, throw it, and it falls on the road,” Sapir said.
She said the men sliced her face, and then the woman fell out of view. Around the same time, she said, she saw three other women raped and terrorists carrying the severed heads of three more women.
Sapir provided photographs of her hiding place and her wounds, and police officials have stood by her testimony and released a video of her, with her face blurred, recounting some of what she saw.
Yura Karol, a 22-year-old security consultant, said he was hiding in the same spot, and he can be seen in one of Sapir’s photos. He and Sapir were part of a group of friends who had met up at the party. In an interview, Karol said he barely lifted his head to look at the road, but he also described seeing a woman raped and killed.
Since that day, Sapir said, she has struggled with a painful rash that spread across her torso, and she can barely sleep, waking up at night, heart pounding, covered in sweat.
“That day, I became an animal,” she said. “I was emotionally detached, sharp, just the adrenaline of survival. I looked at all this as if I was photographing them with my eyes, not forgetting any detail. I told myself: I should remember everything.”
That same morning, along Route 232 but in a different location about 1 mile southwest of the party area, Raz Cohen — a young Israeli who had also attended the rave and had worked recently in Congo training Congolese soldiers — said that he was hiding in a dried-up streambed. It provided some cover from the assailants combing the area and shooting anyone they found, he said in a 1 1/2-hour interview in a Tel Aviv, Israel, restaurant.
Maybe 40 yards in front of him, he recalled, a white van pulled up, and its doors flew open.
He said he then saw five men, wearing civilian clothes, all carrying knives and one carrying a hammer, dragging a woman across the ground. She was young, naked and screaming.
“They all gather around her,” Cohen said. “She’s standing up. They start raping her. I saw the men standing in a half circle around her. One penetrates her. She screams. I still remember her voice, screams without words.
“Then one of them raises a knife,” he said, “and they just slaughtered her.”
Shoam Gueta, one of Cohen’s friends and a fashion designer, said the two were hiding together in the streambed. He said he saw at least four men step out of the van and attack the woman, who ended up “between their legs.” He said that they were “talking, giggling and shouting” and that one of them stabbed her with a knife repeatedly, “literally butchering her.”
Hours later, the first wave of volunteer emergency medical technicians arrived at the rave site. In interviews, four of them said that they discovered bodies of dead women with their legs spread and underwear missing — some with their hands tied by rope and zip ties — in the party area, along the road, in the parking area and in the open fields around the rave site.
Jamal Waraki, a volunteer medic with the nonprofit ZAKA emergency response team, said he could not get out of his head a young woman in a rawhide vest found between the main stage and the bar.
“Her hands were tied behind her back,” he said. “She was bent over, half naked, her underwear rolled down below her knees.”
Yinon Rivlin, a member of the rave’s production team who lost two brothers in the attacks, said that after hiding from the killers, he emerged from a ditch and made his way to the parking area, east of the party, along Route 232, looking for survivors.
Near the highway, he said, he found the body of a young woman, on her stomach, no pants or underwear, legs spread apart. He said her vagina area appeared to have been sliced open, “as if someone tore her apart.”
Similar discoveries were made in two kibbutzim, Be’eri and Kfar Aza. Eight volunteer medics and two Israeli soldiers told the Times that in at least six different houses, they had come across a total of at least 24 bodies of women and girls naked or half naked, some mutilated, others tied up, and often alone.
A paramedic in an Israeli commando unit said that he had found the bodies of two teenage girls in a room in Be’eri.
One was lying on her side, he said, boxer shorts ripped, bruises by her groin. The other was sprawled on the floor facedown, he said, pajama pants pulled to her knees, bottom exposed, semen smeared on her back.
Because his job was to look for survivors, he said, he kept moving and did not document the scene. Neighbors of the two girls killed — who were sisters, 13 and 16 — said their bodies had been found alone, separated from the rest of their family.
The Israeli military allowed the paramedic to speak with reporters on the condition that he not be identified because he serves in an elite unit.
Many of the dead were brought to the Shura military base, in central Israel, for identification. Here, too, witnesses said they saw signs of sexual violence.
Shari Mendes, an architect called up as a reserve soldier to help prepare the bodies of female soldiers for burial, said she had seen four with signs of sexual violence, including some with “a lot of blood in their pelvic areas.”
A dentist, Capt. Maayan, who worked at the same identification center, said that she had seen at least 10 bodies of female soldiers from Gaza observation posts with signs of sexual violence.
Maayan asked to be identified only by her rank and surname because of the sensitivity of the subject. She said she had seen several bodies with cuts in their vaginas and underwear soaked in blood and one whose fingernails had been pulled out.
The Investigation
Israeli authorities have no shortage of video evidence from the Oct. 7 attacks. They have gathered hours of footage from Hamas body cameras, dashcams, security cameras and mobile phones showing Hamas terrorists killing civilians and many images of mutilated bodies.
But Moshe Fintzy, a deputy superintendent and senior spokesperson of Israel’s national police, said, “We have zero autopsies, zero,” making an O with his right hand.
In the aftermath of the attack, police officials said, forensic examiners were dispatched to the Shura military base to help identify the hundreds of bodies; Israeli officials say around 1,200 people were killed that day.
The examiners worked quickly to give the agonized families of the missing a sense of closure and to determine, by a process of elimination, who was dead and who was being held hostage in Gaza.
According to Jewish tradition, funerals are held promptly. The result was that many bodies with signs of sexual abuse were put to rest without medical examinations, meaning that potential evidence now lies buried in the ground. International forensic experts said that it would be possible to recover some evidence from the corpses but that it would be difficult.
Fintzy said Israeli security forces were still finding imagery that shows women were brutalized. Sitting at his desk at an imposing police building in Jerusalem, he swiped open his phone, tapped and produced the video of the two soldiers shot in the vagina, which he said was recorded by Hamas gunmen and recently recovered by Israeli soldiers.
A colleague sitting next to him, Mirit Ben Mayor, a police chief superintendent, said she believed that the brutality against women was a combination of two ferocious forces: “the hatred for Jews and the hatred for women.”
Some emergency medical workers now wish they had documented more of what they saw. In interviews, they said they had moved bodies, cut off zip ties and cleaned up scenes of carnage. Trying to be respectful to the dead, they inadvertently destroyed evidence.
Many volunteers working for ZAKA, the emergency response team, are religious Jews and operate under strict rules that command deep respect for the dead.
“I did not take pictures because we are not allowed to take pictures,” said Yossi Landau, a ZAKA volunteer. “In retrospect, I regret it.”
There are at least three women and one man who were sexually assaulted and survived, according to Gil Horev, a spokesperson for Israel’s Ministry of Welfare and Social Affairs. “None of them has been willing to come physically for treatment,” he said. Two therapists said they were working with a woman who was gang raped at the rave and was in no condition to talk to investigators or reporters.
The trauma from sexual assault can be so heavy that sometimes survivors do not speak about it for years, several rape counselors said.
“Many people are looking for the golden evidence, of a woman who will testify about what happened to her. But don’t look for that. Don’t put this pressure on this woman,” said Orit Sulitzeanu, executive director of the Association of Rape Crisis Centers in Israel. “The corpses tell the story.”
The Woman in the Black Dress
One of the last images of Abdush alive — captured by a security camera mounted on her front door — shows her leaving home with her husband, Nagi, at 2:30 a.m. Oct. 7 for the rave.
He was wearing jeans and a black T-shirt. She was dressed in a short black dress, a black shawl tied around her waist and combat boots. As she struts out, she takes a swig from a glass (her brother-in-law remembers it was Red Bull and vodka) and laughs.
You’ve got to live life like it’s your last moments. That was her motto, her sisters said.
At daybreak, hundreds of terrorists closed in on the party from several directions, blocking the highways leading out. The couple jumped into their Audi, dashing off a string of messages as they moved.
“We’re on the border,” Abdush wrote to her family. “We’re leaving.
“Explosions.”
Her husband made his own calls to his family, leaving a final audio message for his brother, Nissim, at 7:44 a.m. “Take care of the kids,” he said. “I love you.”
Gunshots rang out, and the message stopped.
That night, Eden Wessely, a car mechanic, drove to the rave site with three friends and found Abdush sprawled half naked on the road next to her burned car, about 9 miles north of the site. She did not see the body of Abdush’s husband.
She saw other burned cars and other bodies and shot videos of several, hoping that they would help people to identify missing relatives. When she posted the video of the woman in the black dress on her Instagram story, she was deluged with messages.
“Hi, based on your description of the woman in the black dress, did she have blonde hair?” one message read.
“Eden, the woman you described with the black dress, do you remember the color of her eyes?” another said.
Some members of the Abdush family saw that video and another version of it filmed by one of Wessely’s friends. They immediately suspected that the body was Abdush, and based on the way her body was found, they feared that she might have been raped.
But they kept alive a flicker of hope that somehow, it wasn’t true.
The videos caught the eye of Israeli officials as well. Very quickly after Oct. 7, they began gathering evidence of atrocities. They included footage of Abdush’s body in a presentation made to foreign governments and media organizations, using Abdush as a representation of violence committed against women that day.
A week after her body was found, three government social workers appeared at the gate of the family’s home in Kiryat Ekron, a small town in central Israel. They broke the news that Abdush, 34, had been found dead.
But the only document the family received was a one-page form letter from Israeli President Isaac Herzog expressing his condolences and sending a hug. The body of Abdush’s husband, 35, was identified two days after his wife’s. It was badly burned, and investigators determined who he was based on a DNA sample and his wedding ring.
The couple had been together since they were teenagers. To the family, it seems only yesterday that Nagi Abdush was heading off to work to fix water heaters, a bag of tools slung over his shoulder, and Gal Abdush was cooking up mashed potatoes and schnitzel for their two sons, Eliav, 10, and Refael, 7.
The boys are now orphans. They were sleeping over at an aunt’s the night their parents were killed. Gal Abdush’s mother and father have applied for permanent custody, and everyone is chipping in to help.
Night after night, Gal Abdush’s mother, Eti Bracha, lies in bed with the boys until they drift off. A few weeks ago, she said she tried to quietly leave their bedroom when the younger boy stopped her.
“Grandma,” he said, “I want to ask you a question.”
“Honey,” she said, “you can ask anything.”
“Grandma, how did mom die?”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Witnesses; Rape; Roads & highways; Violence; Military bases; Women; Criminal investigations; Sex crimes; Military personnel; Interviews

Location: New York; United States--US; Israel

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Instagram Inc; Mass Shootings; Herzog, Isaac; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Freedom Of The Press; Hamas; Traffic And Parking Signals And Signs; Congo, Democratic Republic Of (Congo Kinshasa); Military Bases And Installations; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Death And Dying; Domestic Violence; Smartphones; Architecture; Burns; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Emergency Medical Treatment; Palestinians; Israel; Disasters And Emergencies; Attacks On Police; Politics And Government; Photography; Automobiles; Dna (Deoxyribonucleic Acid); Nonprofit Organizations; Dresses; United Nations; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Lingerie And Underwear; Fugitives; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Whatsapp Inc; Defense And Military Forces; Witnesses; Discrimination; United Nations Entity For Gender Equality And The Empowerment Of Women; Women And Girls; Hugging; Tel Aviv (Israel); Sex Crimes; Face; World; Fashion And Apparel; Wireless Communications; International Relations; News And News Media; Child Abuse And Neglect; Rumors And Misinformation; Volunteers And Community Service; Deaths (Fatalities); Re'im (Israel); Gaza Strip; Cameras; Ponomarev, Sergey; Civilian Casualties; Cellular Telephones; Newspapers; Labor And Jobs; Accounting And Accountants; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Jerusalem (Israel); Instant Messaging; Children And Childhood; Missing Persons; Parking; Jews And Judaism; Gettleman, Jeffrey; Head (Body Part); Forensic Science; Family Leaves; Legs; Kidnapping And Hostages; Terrorism; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Funerals And Memorials; Vagina; New York Times; Sexual Harassment

Title: ‘Screams Without Words’: How Hamas Weaponized Sexual Violence on Oct. 7

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-30T16:19:13Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907795086

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/screams-without-words-how-hamas-weaponized-sexual/docview/2907795086/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 30, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Has Fished Out Grenades, Bikes and Guns. Can Fame Be Far Behind?

Author: Conti, Allie

Publication info: Conti, Allie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-has-fished-out-grenades-bikes-guns-can-fame-be/docview/2907795083/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — James Kane was not afraid of the grenade. Not even a little bit. But he was feeling a rush of adrenaline.
After all, finding an antique weapon in Sheepshead Bay was a big deal for someone who desperately wants to be noticed. A YouTube video of a grenade being pulled from the water along the New York City shoreline could be viral gold. “Some magnet fishers go their whole lives without this happening,” Kane said, pacing the boardwalk excitedly. “I’ve never won a lottery in my entire life — even a scratch-off. This is historic. It’s pure frickin’ insanity. One hundred percent.”
Kane is a magnet fisher, which is exactly what it sounds like: He regularly tosses a magnet into the water to see what comes out. This became an oddly popular hobby during the pandemic, though Kane claims to be the only person who does it in New York City. This may or may not be true, but he definitely has an insider’s perspective on the city’s waterways.
He was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Queens, and he spent a year staring at the shore when he had a job with NYC Ferry. He also pulled shifts as a crane operator for a sanitation company, an education in just how much stuff is at the bottom of places like the East River. For the past five months, he has been treating magnet fishing as a full-time job.
The grenade was not without precedent. Two months before, Kane managed to pull a gun out of a lake near where he lives. It might have been used in a murder, he suggested, and he was told there was a chance he might be subpoenaed. He was eager to avoid that entanglement.
On that unseasonably warm November afternoon, Kane, who is 39 and looks a bit like actor Seth Rogen playing a deckhand, just yanked the thing right off his magnet. It took quite a bit of effort, given that the magnet (from Kratos Magnetics, for $140) was advertised as having a “pull force” of 3,800 pounds. The gunpowder had been emptied out of the bottom, so he figured the corroded explosive was something that would put him on the map rather than blow him off it. Still, he put it on the ground and covered it with a plastic bucket — just in case.
As he dialed 911, he paused to wonder: Would the operator remember him? Was he something of a known quantity by now? Just the week before, he’d found a top-loading Smith & Wesson in Prospect Park Lake. And he’d also found a completely different grenade about a month ago, which he said led the police to evacuate a restaurant near the United Nations. But to his disappointment, that day’s dispatcher didn’t react.
“You’re gonna know Let’s Get Magnetic,” Kane told the operator, referencing the name of his YouTube channel. “I’m getting famous.”
His partner, Barbie Agostini, continued filming as the police arrived. Two beat cops who showed up took some pictures of the grenade on their phones. Meanwhile, a woman pushed a baby carriage inches away from it. More cops eventually came to cordon off the area, but the content creation did not stop there. Another officer squatted on the ground to take more close-ups. Wanting a wider-angle view of the ruckus he’d wrought, Kane moved slightly down the sidewalk and kept fishing.
It wasn’t long before a well-put-together young woman in a pinned-on hat stopped and stared as Kane pulled a hunk of junk out of the water with his magnet.
“What are you guys fishing for?” she asked.
“Anything metal,” he told her. “This is a bed frame,” he said, “from the 1900s.”
The woman looked astounded at this dubious bit of history.
“God bless you,” she said.
Several weekends after the grenade, Kane was celebrating. Let’s Get Magnetic had just hit 1,000 subscribers on YouTube. It’s a small audience, but it meant he could finally monetize his channel. He, Agostini, and her 15-year-old son, Jose, were at a pizza joint in the Jamaica Hills neighborhood of Queens. They ordered a large pie and talked about how far they’d come and what might be next.
Before he’d turned to magnet fishing, Kane used to stream himself playing video games. Not only was he unsuccessful at making a living that way, but his attempts were detrimental to his health. When he died in a game like “Doom,” his blood pressure would spike. “Your body thinks it’s dying in real life,” he explained. “One hundred percent.”
“It took us long enough to get into a relationship,” Agostini said while dousing her slice in oregano flakes. “I don’t need you dying on me.”
Kane and Agostini have known each other practically since birth. The way they tell the story, their moms met on the subway, became drinking buddies, and both decided to adopt children around the same time. When they were young, they were inseparable, but then they lost touch when Kane spent some time living on the streets. A job program got him back on his feet, and then he reconnected with Agostini on Facebook.
They became more than friends in 2016 and eventually moved in together, Agostini bringing her son, Jose, and her daughter, Rebecca. Things were going well — great, actually — until COVID hit. The schools closed, and then Agostini needed back surgery. Kane was forced to resign from the crane operating job he’d grown to like, because someone needed to take care of the children. “The pandemic absolutely destroyed us,” he said.
As the sole breadwinner for his new family, Kane scrambled to come up with a way to work from home. So he tried his hand at streaming until the blood pressure issues arose, not to mention all the sitting. His new avocation is much more flexible and more active, which isn’t to say it is without risk.
“I would get cut with bike spokes through my gloves,” Kane remembers. “I’ve been poked by acupuncture needles that someone dumped in Corona Park. There’s green slime. I just fought on and got my tetanus shot, and I haven’t gotten sick yet.”
While Kane still dreams of finding a treasure chest full of coins, he mostly finds junk. One-off pieces of silverware are still considered a decent score; they’re apparently fine to use after they’ve been boiled for an hour. But sometimes the family will luck out.
He once found a bag with $200 worth of waterlogged bills in it. Another time, he found an iPhone 13. The owner let him keep it. It’s now what Agostini, who used to work with developmentally disabled adults before her back surgery, uses to film her family’s exploits on the water. She loves her new career as a videographer and internet researcher. “It’s the poor man’s archaeology,” she explained.
Kane maintains that this iPhone will launch him into YouTube stardom. He speaks reverently about other magnet fishers with hundreds of thousands of subscribers, most of them based in Europe. For his line of work, he recognizes that being in New York is a handicap; nothing here is that old, and American coins are not magnetic.
He’s also not sure he’s willing to submerge himself in the hyperpolluted East River to find the really good stuff. But his biggest issue is that everything in the city is so regulated; he’s been threatened with arrest several times, even though he insists that what he does is completely legal. Still, he is storing a cache of weapons at his apartment — or at least parts of weapons.
After lunch, Kane, Agostini and Jose returned to their duplex. Kane pulled out a Styrofoam chest full of his favorite finds. They included the magazines from four guns, the barrel of a sniper rifle and two tiny cannonballs that might predate the city itself, which he plans on giving to the American Museum of Natural History.
Evidence of a collector’s lifestyle exists throughout the apartment; unopened retro video games and hand-painted Japanese anime figurines covered nearly every spare inch of wall space. Kane pulled out some tiny pieces of metal from the cooler, one in the shape of a bow and arrow, and another that looked like a ball-peen hammer.
“This is black magic,” he said. “One hundred percent.” Then came a key fob for an Audi that still lit up when he pressed a button. “This unlocks a car,” he said. “We just don’t know where the car is.” Then came his collection of iPhones, which he proudly displayed on his purple couch. All of them worked. Well, all but one. “It smokes if you turn it on,” he said. “But that’s the only problem.”
Kane has cast his magnet at dozens of sites so far and has a lead on a spot near Kennedy Airport. And he has a litany of ideas on how to cash in. He wants his family to become famous. And a popular channel could be a way to launch their own line of personal protective equipment that’s specific to magnet fishing — or to sell a slingshotlike device that would allow someone to fling a magnet super far.
But Kane could just as happily work for the city, helping to clean out ponds and playgrounds. Or he could get hired to teach children about magnet fishing, and therefore the history of New York. Although he claimed that magnet fishing in public made him feel anxious, it was clear he had the personality for such a gig.
You could tell by the way he worked the boardwalk in Sheepshead Bay.
A crowd was also beginning to form from a nearby park and the dialysis center across the street, including some metal detectorists and people who’d collected coins in their youth. Even if he’d yet to become famous, Kane was clearly enjoying putting on a show. He was yukking it up as he pulled a shopping cart from Marshalls out of the water. People gasped and jumped up onto park benches as he pulled up a giant pipe, its occupant slithering out and skittering all over the place. A live eel in Brooklyn!
As he was waiting for someone to deal with the grenade, Kane also managed to pull three bicycles, a vintage municipal trash can and a kitchen sink onto Emmons Avenue. He hauled in a car boot, which supposedly can’t be removed from an illegally parked car without destroying the wheel it is clamped to. It was unclear how it ended up in Sheepshead Bay.
Finally, the bomb squad arrived. A man in a white zip-up sweater stepped over the yellow tape and peered at the grenade. As he picked it up and took it back toward the van he’d arrived in, Kane yelled from down the block as if he was trying to flag down an A-list celebrity for a selfie. He mostly wanted to know if he could keep his find as a souvenir, though the officer had to inform him that the charge in this World War II-era training grenade was still active. So the answer was a definite no.
Kane was disappointed, but he considered that he’d had any dialogue with someone from the bomb squad — a huge win for his career as a magnet fisher. After all, who could forget the guy who found a real, live grenade in Brooklyn?
“I almost killed everyone in the area,” he said. “But that definitely would have been on the news.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Computer & video games; Video recordings; Back surgery; Blood pressure; Personal profiles; Pandemics

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Privacy; Bombs And Explosives; Rogen, Seth; Fishing, Commercial; Computer And Video Games; Japan; Labor And Jobs; Evacuations And Evacuees; Derricks And Cranes; Lotteries; Parks And Other Recreation Areas; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Fishing, Sport; Restaurants; Subways; Celebrities; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Currency; New York City; United States; Waste Materials And Disposal; Smith & Wesson; Automobiles; Magnets And Magnetism; Lakes; Serial Murders; Kennedy International Airport (Queens, Ny); Iphone; United Nations; Telecommuting; Europe; Blood; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Prospect Park (Brooklyn, Ny); Brooklyn (Nyc); Emergency Telephone Numbers; Railroads; American Museum Of Natural History; Bicycles And Bicycling; East River (Nyc); Advertising And Marketing; Treasure Troves; Shutdowns (Instituti onal); News And News Media; YoutubeCom; Nine One One (911) (Emergency Phone Number); Facebook Inc; Sheepshead Bay (Brooklyn, Ny); Biographical Information; Polls And Public Opinion; Collectors And Collections; Protective Clothing And Gear; Magazines; Transit Systems; Queens (Nyc); Jamaica Hills (Queens, Ny); Water

Title: He Has Fished Out Grenades, Bikes and Guns. Can Fame Be Far Behind?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-30T17:33:48Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907795083

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-has-fished-out-grenades-bikes-guns-can-fame-be/docview/2907795083/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 30, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Five Works To Enjoy At Home: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Seth Colter Wall s

Publication info: Seth Colter Walls. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/five-works-enjoy-at-home/docview/2905697937/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This selection of works, available to rent and purchase, features some of today's boldest directors and greatest vocal talents.
Enjoying opera -- fully staged opera -- at home has become easier. Recent productions from top European houses have begun to appear for rental and purchase on Amazon Prime Video.
So, on an impulse, you can take in these works -- and keep them, too. (There are other opera-focused streaming platforms, but those rarely allow for purchases.) The productions include rarely staged gems, and feature some of the boldest directors and greatest vocal talents today. Earlier this year, we put the spotlight on five offerings. Here are five more recent additions.
'Fidelio'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Tobias Kratzer is a director who is willing to jerk a canonical text around to fit a contemporary concept. In his take on Beethoven's "Fidelio," for the Royal Opera in London in 2020, he upends both acts: The first takes place in a Jacobin milieu, amid the French Revolution; the second, however, departs from historical specificity, showing its chorus in modern dress. This approach fits an opera that has always proved a challenge for straightforward storytelling. Crucially, Kratzer's direction of singing actors tends to be marvelous; here, the star soprano Lise Davidsen is truly gripping as Leonore.
Kratzer makes many small alterations. One involves a partial disrobing by Fidelio (Leonore disguised as a man) in front of Marzelline during the first act. But the humanist impulse of this opera -- clearly about more than saving just one man from prison -- is consistently emphasized by a strong cast, the Royal Opera orchestra and the conductor, Antonio Pappano. And Davidsen, a powerhouse soprano known for blowing the roof off the Metropolitan Opera, also indulges her talents for delicate scene partnership, as in the early Canon Quartet.
'Der Schatzgräber'
Franz Schreker's music goes almost entirely unplayed in American concert halls and theaters. When it is programmed, you can often tell that it has been produced on the smallest of budgets. That's too bad, because this early-20th-century composer's music dramas are wild delights. At the hinge of late Romanticism and early modernism, they're also unabashedly sensual. Music by Schreker, whose father was Jewish, was popular in German houses during the 1920s, but banned by the Nazis after 1933.
"For him, eroticism is like a way of escaping from the dilemma of societal failure," says director Christof Loy, who piloted this staging for the Deutsche Oper in Berlin last year. As with his recent presentation of Korngold's "Das Wunder der Heliane," the production is spare; he often lets singers do the storytelling. And this cast handles Schreker's lushly complex and demanding idiom with aplomb. As a humble innkeeper's daughter with an eye for the queen's jewels, the soprano Elisabet Strid is a powerhouse, pivoting between memories of youth, desires for fame and manipulative seductions. The Deutsche Oper orchestra, under Marc Albrecht, attends to the gorgeousness of Schreker's style.
'La Périchole'
Jacques Offenbach, the French operetta master, is also too infrequently heard in American houses. But he is reliably served on video. Some of Laurent Pelly's stagings remain in print, and Barrie Kosky's enjoyably deranged take on "Orphée aux Enfers" at the Salzburg Festival is on Blu-ray -- but, unfortunately, not on streaming platforms.
This composer's works can be plenty manic even without a modern gloss or a metatheatrical concept. This Opéra Comique performance of "La Périchole" from last year offers vividly colorful stage pictures, but within a presentation that mostly reflects the period of the piece's 1874 revision. Here, the director Valérie Lesort steers a strong cast; Stéphanie d'Oustrac and Philippe Talbot are stellar as the songful yet destitute lovebirds at the center of the plot. And, with its comic slant on the injustice of imprisonment, "La Périchole" makes for a refreshing tonic after "Fidelio."
'La Morte d'Orfeo'
When Pierre Audi was the artistic leader of the Dutch National Opera, he knew how to throw a festival bash. In 2018, I saw his staging of Stefano Landi's "La Morte d'Orfeo" (1619) -- which extends the tale Monteverdi told in "L'Orfeo" -- during the Opera Forward Festival in Amsterdam.
On a recent rewatch, I was delighted to find that this staging still works plenty well. The lightly surreal set design is in line with the abstraction that Audi has brought to Schoenberg's "Gurre-Lieder" and Messiaen's "Saint François d'Assise." But Audi's designs in "La Morte" have a glam quality. That's fitting, given the sumptuous allure of this early Baroque music, which receives a fine reading at the hands of Les Talens Lyriques and the conductor Christophe Rousset. The cast is great, too, particularly the mezzo-soprano Cecilia Molinari in multiple roles.
'Der Zwerg'
OK, one more from Kratzer. This production was for the Deutsche Oper in 2019, with the company's orchestra led by Donald Runnicles. Alexander von Zemlinsky is another early-20th-century composer who could use more fans, and his one-act drama "Der Zwerg" -- about a dwarf (a dual role for the actor Mick Morris Mehnert and the tenor David Butt Philip) whose romantic hopes are exploited by a superficial court culture -- is given wrenching life by Kratzer and his creative team.
On this occasion, Kratzer's anachronisms work wonders. If the selfish, selfie-taking partygoers offer a blunt form of commentary about contemporary beauty standards and those who enforce them, it's also right on the money when it comes to the pathos of Zemlinsky's work.
Kratzer prefaces the opera with a short orchestral work by Schoenberg, who studied with Zemlinsky. In the director's pantomimed telling, this morsel depicts Zemlinsky's doomed love affair with Alma Schindler (later Alma Mahler). It's an interesting concept, but not as urgently staged as what follows. Still, watching Kratzer take conceptual swings is one of the great delights of opera today -- particularly when he is also highlighting repertoire like this.
Photograph Clockwise from above left: Simon Neal as Don Pizarro in Beethoven's "Fidelio"; Pierre Audi's staging of "La Morte d'Orfeo" in 2018; the Deutsche Oper's 2019 production of "Der Zwerg." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL COOPER/ROYAL OPERA HOUSE; RUTH WALZ; MONIKA RITTERSHAUS) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Composers; Orchestras; Musicians & conductors; Opera; Musical performances; Festivals

Business indexing term: Subject: Orchestras

Company / organization: Name: Deutsche Oper Berlin; NAICS: 711110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/24/arts/music/operas-home-streaming.html

Title: Five Works To Enjoy At Home:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 26, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2905697937

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/five-works-enjoy-at-home/docview/2905697937/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tighter Tax Credits May Hurt Electric Vehicle Sales: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tighter-tax-credits-may-hurt-electric-vehicle/docview/2902823806/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Purchases of popular models like the Tesla Model 3 and the Ford Mustang Mach-E may no longer entitle buyers to tax savings because the cars do not meet tougher sourcing requirements.
Efforts to fight global warming could suffer a setback next year when new rules reduce the number of electric cars that qualify for a federal tax credit.
The credits, up to $ 7,500 a vehicle, have helped make electric cars more affordable, bringing the cost of some models below $ 30,000. Next year, for the first time, dealers will be able to give buyers the credit when they purchase a car, rather than telling them to claim it on their tax returns.
But qualifying for the subsidy will become more difficult on Jan. 1 because of Biden administration rules intended to encourage automakers to manufacture vehicles and parts in North America, while bypassing China. Most automakers are still years away from breaking their dependence on China for batteries and essential materials like refined lithium.
The stricter rules, which stem from the Inflation Reduction Act, throw up another impediment to electric vehicles. Sales of such cars and trucks are already growing less briskly than a year ago because of high interest rates and drivers' anxiety about finding charging stations.
Electric vehicles are still the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry, and Americans have already bought more than one million this year. Sales will rise another 32 percent in 2024, according to BloombergNEF, compared to 47 percent in 2023. But Ford Motor, General Motors and Tesla have slowed investment as the pace of growth has cooled.
The list of fully electric vehicles that qualify for tax credits was already limited. Under rules that took effect this year, the credit was available only to cars manufactured in North America.
To collect the full credit, carmakers also must meet quotas on how much of their battery components and certain raw materials come from the United States or trade allies. Tesla, General Motors, Ford, Volkswagen, Rivian and Nissan are the only companies offering electric cars that qualify for the at least a partial credit. Some plug-in hybrid cars from Audi, BMW, Chrysler, Jeep and Lincoln also qualify for tax breaks.
New rules kicking in on Jan. 1 add another set of restrictions, disqualifying vehicles containing components made in China or made elsewhere by a firm under the control of the Chinese government.
"If it was already confusing for consumers, it gets even more confusing," said Kevin Roberts, director of industry insights and analytics at CarGurus, an online marketplace.
Tesla, which accounts for half of all the electric vehicles sold in the United States, has warned on its website that the least expensive Model 3 sedan and a long-range version will no longer qualify after Dec. 31. The cars have a battery made in China. The existing credits lowered the price of the base Model 3 to around $ 30,000, on a par with similarly equipped gasoline cars like the Toyota Camry or Honda Accord.
The stricter rules will also disqualify Ford's Mustang Mach-E, which has been eligible for half the credit and was the fourth-most-popular U.S. electric vehicle this year. Ford is still figuring out whether the F-150 Lighting, an electric pickup, will be eligible, a spokesman said.
The rules are complex and could still be modified by administration officials, leading to confusion among industry executives. In the worst case, only a handful of vehicles will qualify.
Volkswagen said it is "cautiously optimistic" that its ID.4 electric sport utility vehicle, made in Chattanooga, Tenn., will continue to get the credit.
General Motors said it is assessing whether its electric lineup, which includes the Chevrolet Bolt and an electric version of the Silverado pickup, will qualify. Nissan, whose electric Leaf is eligible for half of the $ 7,500 credit, did not respond to a request for comment. Rivian, whose electric pickups and S.U.V.s have qualified, also did not respond.
There is another way drivers can benefit from the credit. Under an exception intended for businesses with vehicle fleets, the Inflation Reduction Act allows dealers to apply the subsidy to leased vehicles and pass it on to customers. That wrinkle has helped Hyundai and other foreign automakers remain competitive even though they do not produce electric vehicles and batteries in the United States.
More than 40 percent of Hyundai's electric vehicle sales are leases, a spokesman said, up from just 5 percent before new restrictions took effect this year. The same provision in the law has allowed people who lease cars made abroad by Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Volvo and Polestar to receive the credit indirectly.
But leasing is not a panacea. Many people prefer to own their cars, and foreign automakers are sore that they have been excluded from the subsidy available to buyers. The electric vehicle credit "is overly complex and unfortunately creating customer and dealer confusion," Volvo Cars said in a statement.
But the lawmakers who drafted and passed the Inflation Reduction Act have said they wrote it to force carmakers to realign their supply chains. That is happening, but the changes will take some time to bear fruit.
The list of eligible vehicles could grow over the course of 2024 as carmakers ramp up U.S. production to qualify for the credits and other subsidies.
The Korean automaker Kia expects to begin producing the EV9, a seven-passenger electric sport utility vehicle, at a factory in Georgia next year. Those domestically assembled vehicles should be eligible for half the credit, or $ 3,750, a Kia spokesman said.
Stellantis, which owns Chrysler, Dodge, Ram and Jeep, plans to introduce six mass-market electric vehicles in 2024, including versions of the Dodge Charger, Jeep Wagoneer and Ram pickup. The company has not said whether the vehicles will qualify for credits.
Some hybrids, which have internal combustion engines and electric motors, will also qualify if they meet the sourcing requirements and have a battery with a capacity of at least seven kilowatt-hours.
The Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid will most likely still be eligible for a $ 7,500 credit, a company spokesman said, while buyers of the Jeep Grand Cherokee 4xe and Jeep Wrangler 4xe hybrids are expected to be eligible for up to $ 3,750.
Market forces are pushing down the prices of electric vehicles, a trend that is expected to continue as carmakers increase production. The average list price of an electric vehicle fell to $ 63,000 in November from $ 68,000 a year earlier, according to CarGurus. The average list price of a vehicle with an internal combustion engine was $ 48,000, the same as in the previous year.
Federal subsidies and loans for battery factories and electric car plants are also helping to lower prices. At some point during the next several years, analysts expect electric vehicles to become less expensive than internal combustion models even without tax credits.
"The long-term trend is going to be one of reducing prices," Mr. Roberts of CarGurus said. "You are going to see more mainstream vehicles."
Photograph Teslas in Fremont, Calif. Some models will no longer qualify for tax credits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); The stricter rules will disqualify Ford's Mustang Mach-E, which has been eligible for half the credit and was a popular U.S. electric vehicle this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS MANTLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Prices; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Automobile dealers; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Tax credits Automobile sales Subsidies Automobile dealers Factories

Location: United States--US; North America; China

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: CarGurus Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: FCA US LLC; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/16/business/electric-vehicle-tax-credits.html

Title: Tighter Tax Credits May Hurt Electric Vehicle Sales:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902823806

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tighter-tax-credits-may-hurt-electric-vehicle/docview/2902823806/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fewer Electric Vehicles Will Qualify for Federal Tax Credits in 2024

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fewer-electric-vehicles-will-qualify-federal-tax/docview/2902776719/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Efforts to fight global warming could suffer a setback next year when new rules reduce the number of electric cars that qualify for a federal tax credit.
The credits, up to $7,500 a vehicle, have helped make electric cars more affordable, bringing the cost of some models below $30,000. Next year, for the first time, dealers will be able to give buyers the credit when they purchase a car, rather than telling them to claim it on their tax returns.
But qualifying for the subsidy will become more difficult on Jan. 1 because of Biden administration rules intended to encourage automakers to manufacture vehicles and parts in North America, while bypassing China. Most automakers are still years away from breaking their dependence on China for batteries and essential materials like refined lithium.
The stricter rules, which stem from the Inflation Reduction Act, throw up another impediment to electric vehicles. Sales of such cars and trucks are growing less briskly than a year ago because of high interest rates and drivers’ anxiety about finding charging stations.
Electric vehicles are still the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry, and Americans have bought more than 1 million this year. Sales will rise another 32% in 2024, according to BloombergNEF, compared with 47% in 2023. But Ford Motor, General Motors and Tesla have slowed investment as the pace of growth has cooled.
The list of fully electric vehicles that qualify for tax credits was already limited. Under rules that took effect this year, the credit was available only to cars manufactured in North America.
To collect the full credit, carmakers also must meet quotas on how much of their battery components and certain raw materials come from the United States or trade allies. Tesla, General Motors, Ford, Volkswagen, Rivian and Nissan are the only companies offering electric cars that qualify for at least a partial credit. Some plug-in hybrid cars from Audi, BMW, Chrysler, Jeep and Lincoln also qualify for tax breaks.
New rules kicking in Jan. 1 add another set of restrictions, disqualifying vehicles containing components made in China or made elsewhere by a firm under the control of the Chinese government.
“If it was already confusing for consumers, it gets even more confusing,” said Kevin Roberts, director of industry insights and analytics at CarGurus, an online marketplace.
Tesla, which accounts for half of all the electric vehicles sold in the United States, has warned on its website that the least expensive Model 3 sedan and a long-range version will no longer qualify after Dec. 31. The cars have a battery made in China. The existing credits lowered the price of the base Model 3 to around $30,000, on a par with similarly equipped gasoline cars including Toyota Camry or Honda Accord.
The stricter rules will also disqualify Ford’s Mustang Mach-E, which has been eligible for half the credit and was the fourth-most-popular U.S. electric vehicle this year. Ford is still figuring out whether the F-150 Lighting, an electric pickup, will be eligible, a spokesperson said.
The rules are complex and could still be modified by administration officials, leading to confusion among industry executives. In the worst case, only a handful of vehicles will qualify.
Volkswagen said it is “cautiously optimistic” that its ID.4 electric sport utility vehicle, made in Chattanooga, Tennessee, will continue to get the credit.
General Motors said it is assessing whether its electric lineup, which includes the Chevrolet Bolt and an electric version of the Silverado pickup, will qualify. Nissan, whose electric Leaf is eligible for half of the $7,500 credit, did not respond to a request for comment. Rivian, whose electric pickups and SUVs have qualified, also did not respond.
There is another way drivers can benefit from the credit. Under an exception intended for businesses with vehicle fleets, the Inflation Reduction Act allows dealers to apply the subsidy to leased vehicles and pass it on to customers. That wrinkle has helped Hyundai and other foreign automakers remain competitive even though they do not produce electric vehicles and batteries in the United States.
More than 40% of Hyundai’s electric vehicle sales are leases, a spokesperson said, up from just 5% before new restrictions took effect this year. The same provision in the law has allowed people who lease cars made abroad by Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Volvo and Polestar to receive the credit indirectly.
But leasing is not a panacea. Many people prefer to own their cars, and foreign automakers are sore that they have been excluded from the subsidy available to buyers. The electric vehicle credit “is overly complex and unfortunately creating customer and dealer confusion,” Volvo Cars said in a statement.
But the lawmakers who drafted and passed the Inflation Reduction Act have said they wrote it to force carmakers to realign their supply chains. That is happening, but the changes will take some time to bear fruit.
The list of eligible vehicles could grow over the course of 2024 as carmakers ramp up U.S. production to qualify for the credits and other subsidies.
Korean automaker Kia expects to begin producing the EV9, a seven-passenger electric sport utility vehicle, at a factory in Georgia next year. Those domestically assembled vehicles should be eligible for half the credit, or $3,750, a Kia spokesperson said.
Stellantis, which owns Chrysler, Dodge, Ram and Jeep, plans to introduce six mass-market electric vehicles in 2024, including versions of the Dodge Charger, Jeep Wagoneer and Ram pickup. The company has not said whether the vehicles will qualify for credits.
Some hybrids, which have internal combustion engines and electric motors, will also qualify if they meet the sourcing requirements and have a battery with a capacity of at least 7 kilowatt-hours.
The Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid will most likely still be eligible for a $7,500 credit, a company spokesperson said, while buyers of the Jeep Grand Cherokee 4xe and Jeep Wrangler 4xe hybrids are expected to be eligible for up to $3,750.
Market forces are pushing down the prices of electric vehicles, a trend that is expected to continue as carmakers increase production. The average list price of an electric vehicle fell to $63,000 in November from $68,000 a year earlier, according to CarGurus. The average list price of a vehicle with an internal combustion engine was $48,000, the same as in the previous year.
Federal subsidies and loans for battery factories and electric car plants are also helping to lower prices. At some point during the next several years, analysts expect electric vehicles to become less expensive than internal combustion models even without tax credits.
“The long-term trend is going to be one of reducing prices,” Roberts of CarGurus said. “You are going to see more mainstream vehicles.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Prices; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Factories; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Tax credits Automobile sales Subsidies Factories Automobile dealers

Location: New York; United States--US; North America; China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: CarGurus Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: FCA US LLC; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Honda Motor Co Ltd; Rationing And Allocation Of Resources; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Global Warming; Mercedes Benz; Inflation (Economics); Lincoln Motor Co; Pacifica Labs Inc; United States Economy; Hyundai Motor Co; Inflation Reduction Act Of 2022; Production; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Air Pollution; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Polestar Performance Ab; Georgia; Politics And Government; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Volvo Car Corp; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Ab Volvo; General Motors; Chattanooga (Tenn); Nissan Motor Co; South Korea; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Lithium (Metal); Toyota Motor Corp; E Commerce; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; Rivian Automotive Llc; Federal Aid (Us); Volkswagen Ag; Stellantis Nv; Batteries; North America; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Tennessee; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Fewer Electric Vehicles Will Qualify for Federal Tax Credits in 2024

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-17T22:43:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902776719

Document URL: https://www.proquest.co m/newspapers/fewer-electric-vehicles-will-qualify-federal-tax/docview/2902776719/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pickup or Lunar Lander? Tesla's Cybertruck Arrives.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pickup-lunar-lander-teslas-cybertruck-arrives/docview/2895613974/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two years behind schedule, the electric model has an unusual design that sets it apart from rival pickups, which could limit its sales.
Tesla began delivering its much delayed, highly anticipated Cybertruck pickup to customers on Thursday, entering one of the most lucrative but competitive segments of the auto industry.
With its stainless steel body and sharp angles, the Cybertruck is unlike pickups from Ford Motor, General Motors and Ram, which dominate the market. With a starting price of $ 100,000 for the top-of-the-line version, it is Tesla's first completely new passenger vehicle in more than three years but arrives long after other automakers began selling battery-powered pickups.
That has analysts asking just who will buy the Cybertruck. Will it steal customers from traditional automakers, appeal to a different crowd or become a costly flop? Tesla has said hundreds of thousands of people have placed $ 100 refundable deposits on Cybertrucks. But there is no guarantee those reservations will translate into sales.
"It does beg the question, what kind of customer is Tesla looking for?" said Ben Rose, president of Battle Road Research, a firm that tracks electric vehicle and technology companies, who expects Tesla shares to outperform the market. "It looks like something lowered from the lunar module to collect rocks on the moon."
During an event Thursday in Austin, Texas, where the truck will be built, Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla, answered criticism that it was not a serious working vehicle. Videos showed the Cybertruck beating trucks from Ford and Rivian in a hauling contest, and being used to carry steel and pull machinery at a construction site.
"It's an incredibly useful truck. It's not just some grandstanding showpiece," Mr. Musk said, adding, "like me."
The quip was perhaps a reference to the firestorm he ignited Wednesday when he said that advertisers that have pulled advertising from X, the social media site formerly known as Twitter and which he owns, were attempting to "blackmail" him because he endorsed an antisemitic post. "Don't advertise," Mr. Musk said at the DealBook Summit in New York, addressing the brands. He used an expletive multiple times for emphasis.
First displayed publicly in 2019, the Cybertruck has suffered from production problems stemming from its odd design and the choice of stainless steel rather than the lighter steel or aluminum typically used in cars and trucks. Sales have been delayed by more than two years, and Mr. Musk has warned investors that the company may not be able to manufacture the truck in large numbers until 2025.
"There will be enormous challenges in reaching volume production with Cybertruck and making the Cybertruck cash-flow positive," Mr. Musk said in October.
There is a lot at stake for the traditional carmakers, too. Americans buy 2.5 million pickups a year, and those sales are an important source of profits for Ford, G.M. and Stellantis, which owns Ram, Jeep and Chrysler. In the United States, pickups are often sold as luxury vehicles. Well-heeled Europeans or Asians tend to buy sedans and sport utility vehicles from Mercedes-Benz, BMW or Audi. Many affluent Americans buy Ford F-150s with 18-speaker sound systems and heated steering wheels.
Tesla said on its website that a two-wheel-drive version of the Cybertruck will sell for $ 61,000, but not be available until 2025. Versions that start at $ 80,000 and $ 100,000 will be available next year.
The first buyers are likely to be well-to-do technology savants and collectors, Mr. Rose said. The Cybertruck is unlikely to have as much appeal to corporate fleet operators like utilities or construction companies. Nor is the model likely to be affordable or practical for landscapers, drywall installers and other small-business owners.
That is a relief to the traditional carmakers. About one-fifth of the F-150s that Ford sells go to business or government customers. Ford's Pro division, which focuses on commercial customers, makes a lot more money as a percentage of its sales than the division that sells gasoline vehicles to individuals. (The division that sells electric vehicles to consumers lost money.)
Some businesses buy pickup trucks without cargo beds, instead installing specialized boxes or platforms suited to their needs. That will be impossible with the Cybertruck's one-piece body.
Even when businesses buy trucks with standard beds, they often add accessories like tool boxes or ladder racks that would not fit in the Cybertruck. (Most pickups from other manufacturers look and operate much the same so they can accommodate these add-ons.)
So far, sales of electric pickups and other vehicles to commercial customers have been modest. But Ford sees potential to dominate a fast-growing market where there won't be much competition from Tesla. Ford's E-Transit electric vans have 50 percent of their market in the United States and Europe, Ted Cannis, chief executive of Ford Pro, said in an interview. The electric version of the F-150, known as the Lightning, has almost no competition among commercial customers, he added.
Ford can earn additional revenue from business and government customers by selling them services like software that tracks the locations of their employees and creates efficient routes. Ford will also help customers set up charging stations for fleets of pickups and vans. "We have to make the transition as easy as possible," Mr. Cannis said.
There has been no indication that Tesla plans to provide similar services.
Marketing for the Cybertruck emphasizes its speed, comfort and toughness. Like Ford's F-150 Lightning, the Tesla pickup will come with power outlets for tools or appliances and can power a home temporarily during a blackout.
During the event Thursday, a video showed a man shooting bullets at a Cybertruck. "The apocalypse could come along at any moment," Mr. Musk quipped. "Here at Tesla we have the finest in apocalyptic technology."
Electric pickups have been available since late 2021, when Rivian, a young electric vehicle company, began selling the R1T. Ford began selling the F-150 Lightning in 2022. G.M. began selling an electric version of its Silverado pickup in limited numbers this year.
So far, the response from buyers has been mixed. Electric pickups accounted for only 3 percent of the electric vehicle market in the first nine months of 2023. And just 2 percent of all pickups sold in the United States were electric, according to estimates by Kelley Blue Book and Battle Road.
But sales are growing faster than the overall auto market even if the pace has slowed recently. F-150 Lightning sales in the first nine months of the year grew 40 percent to more than 12,000 vehicles, according to Kelley Blue Book. Sales of Rivian pickups grew 28 percent to more than 14,000 vehicles.
Photograph Tesla has said hundreds of thousands of people have placed $ 100 refundable deposits on the Cybertruck, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Stainless steel; Automobile industry; Customers; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Trucks

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Customers Automobile sales

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/30/business/tesla-cybertruck-delivery-release.html

Title: Pickup or Lunar Lander? Tesla's Cybertruck Arrives.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 1, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2895613974

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pickup-lunar-lander-teslas-cybertruck-arrives/docview/2895613974/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pickup or Lunar Lander? Tesla’s Cybertruck Enters a Crowded Market.

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pickup-lunar-lander-tesla-s-cybertruck-enters/docview/2895501454/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Tesla began delivering its much delayed, highly anticipated Cybertruck pickup to customers Thursday, entering one of the most lucrative but competitive segments of the auto industry.
With its stainless steel body and sharp angles, the Cybertruck is unlike pickups from Ford Motor, General Motors and Ram, which dominate the market. With a starting price of $100,000 for the top-of-the-line version, it is Tesla’s first completely new passenger vehicle in more than three years but arrives long after other automakers began selling battery-powered pickups.
That has analysts asking just who will buy the Cybertruck. Will it steal customers from traditional automakers, appeal to a different crowd or become a costly flop? Tesla has said hundreds of thousands of people have placed $100 refundable deposits on Cybertrucks. But there is no guarantee those reservations will translate into sales.
“It does beg the question, what kind of customer is Tesla looking for?” said Ben Rose, president of Battle Road Research, a firm that tracks electric vehicle and technology companies, who expects Tesla shares to outperform the market. “It looks like something lowered from the lunar module to collect rocks on the moon.”
During an event Thursday in Austin, Texas, where the truck will be built, Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla, answered criticism that it was not a serious working vehicle. Videos showed the Cybertruck beating trucks from Ford and Rivian in a hauling contest, and being used to carry steel and pull machinery at a construction site.
“It’s an incredibly useful truck. It’s not just some grandstanding showpiece,” Musk said, adding, “like me.”
The quip was perhaps a reference to the firestorm he ignited Wednesday when he said that advertisers that have pulled advertising from X, the social media site formerly known as Twitter and which he owns, were attempting to “blackmail” him because he endorsed an antisemitic post. “Don’t advertise,” Musk said at the DealBook Summit in New York, addressing the brands. He used an expletive multiple times for emphasis.
First displayed publicly in 2019, the Cybertruck has suffered from production problems stemming from its odd design and the choice of stainless steel rather than the lighter steel or aluminum typically used in cars and trucks. Sales have been delayed by more than two years, and Musk has warned investors that the company may not be able to manufacture the truck in large numbers until 2025.
“There will be enormous challenges in reaching volume production with Cybertruck and making the Cybertruck cash-flow-positive,” Musk said in October.
There is a lot at stake for the traditional carmakers, too. Americans buy 2.5 million pickups a year, and those sales are an important source of profits for Ford, GM and Stellantis, which owns Ram, Jeep and Chrysler. In the United States, pickups are often sold as luxury vehicles. Well-heeled Europeans or Asians tend to buy sedans and SUVs from Mercedes-Benz, BMW or Audi. Many affluent Americans buy Ford F-150s with 18-speaker sound systems and heated steering wheels.
Tesla said on its website that a two-wheel-drive version of the Cybertruck will sell for $61,000, but not be available until 2025. Versions that start at $80,000 and $100,000 will be available next year.
The first buyers are likely to be well-to-do technology savants and collectors, Rose said. The Cybertruck is unlikely to have as much appeal to corporate fleet operators like utilities or construction companies, nor is the model likely to be affordable or practical for landscapers, drywall installers and other small-business owners.
That is a relief to the traditional carmakers. About one-fifth of the F-150s that Ford sells go to business or government customers. Ford’s Pro division, which focuses on commercial customers, makes a lot more money as a percentage of its sales than the division that sells gasoline vehicles to individuals. (The division that sells electric vehicles to consumers lost money.)
Some businesses buy pickup trucks without cargo beds, instead installing specialized boxes or platforms suited to their needs. That will be impossible with the Cybertruck’s one-piece body.
Even when businesses buy trucks with standard beds, they often add accessories such as tool boxes or ladder racks that would not fit in the Cybertruck. (Most pickups from other manufacturers look and operate much the same so they can accommodate these add-ons.)
So far, sales of electric pickups and other vehicles to commercial customers have been modest. But Ford sees potential to dominate a fast-growing market where there won’t be much competition from Tesla. Ford’s E-Transit electric vans have 50% of their market in the United States and Europe, Ted Cannis, CEO of Ford Pro, said in an interview. The electric version of the F-150, known as the Lightning, has almost no competition among commercial customers, he added.
Ford can earn additional revenue from business and government customers by selling them services such as software that tracks the locations of their employees and creates efficient routes. Ford will also help customers set up charging stations for fleets of pickups and vans. “We have to make the transition as easy as possible,” Cannis said.
There has been no indication that Tesla plans to provide similar services.
Marketing for the Cybertruck emphasizes its speed, comfort and toughness. Like Ford’s F-150 Lightning, the Tesla pickup will come with power outlets for tools or appliances and can power a home temporarily during a blackout.
During the event Thursday, a video showed a man shooting bullets at a Cybertruck. “The apocalypse could come along at any moment,” Musk quipped. “Here at Tesla we have the finest in apocalyptic technology.”
Electric pickups have been available since late 2021, when Rivian, a young electric vehicle company, began selling the R1T. Ford began selling the F-150 Lightning in 2022. GM began selling an electric version of its Silverado pickup in limited numbers this year.
So far, the response from buyers has been mixed. Electric pickups accounted for only 3% of the electric vehicle market in the first nine months of 2023. And just 2% of all pickups sold in the United States were electric, according to estimates by Kelley Blue Book and Battle Road.
But sales are growing faster than the overall auto market even if the pace has slowed recently. F-150 Lightning sales in the first nine months of the year grew 40% to more than 12,000 vehicles, according to Kelley Blue Book. Sales of Rivian pickups grew 28% to more than 14,000 vehicles.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Stainless steel; Automobile industry; Customers; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Trucks

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Customers Automobile sales

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; General Motors; Texas; Mercedes Benz; Twitter; Robberies And Thefts; Building (Construction); Austin (Tex); Ram Division Of Chrysler Corp; Business; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Small Business; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Europe; Social Media; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Online Advertising; Customer Relations; Railroads; Bribery And Kickbacks; Kelley Blue Book Co; Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Lightning; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Rivian Automotive Llc; Steel And Iron; Income Inequality; Stellantis Nv; Batteries; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks

Title: Pickup or Lunar Lander? Tesla’s Cybertruck Enters a Crowded Market.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-30T23:14:16Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2895501454

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pickup-lunar-lander-tesla-s-cybertruck-enters/docview/2895501454/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Searching for Work While Tossing and Turning in Cheap Rooms: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Wang, Vivian

Publication info: Wang, Vivian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/searching-work-while-tossing-turning-cheap-rooms/docview/2884966940/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Chinese backpacker hostels offering bunk beds for a few dollars a night have become hubs for the anxiety and ambitions of job-seeking youth.
In a youth hostel in downtown Shanghai, amid the dull roar of a hair dryer, the shriek of a blender and the lingering aroma of spicy instant noodles, Ethan Yi, 23, was pondering the state of the world.
"Why can't I, a college graduate, find a job?" Mr. Yi lamented as he sat in the hostel's common room after a day of unsuccessful interviews. "Why is it only jobs that pay just $ 400 or $ 500 a month that want me? Sometimes I wonder, how can it be this hard?"
That is the question being asked in hostels across China. As joblessness among young Chinese has reached record highs, hostels have become refuges for young people trying their fortunes in major cities, who need a place to crash between back-to-back interviews, to strategize on their next networking meeting or to fire off yet another résumé. They have become concentrated hubs for people's anxiety, hopes, despair and ambitions, all packed into bunk beds that go for a few dollars a night.
At the Together Hostel, where Mr. Yi was staying, new arrivals scrolled through online job listings surrounded by wall maps highlighting the best spots for Shanghai soup dumplings. Posters advertising local comedy shows went largely ignored by fresh graduates calling their parents for advice or comfort.
Asked what he had been doing at the hostel, Mr. Yi, who was sitting idly by the smoothie bar, responded: "Thinking about life."
Many of the guests arrive with high hopes. Mr. Yi, visiting Shanghai for the first time from his home in the central province of Hunan, was delighted to see many foreigners in the city, as he wanted to work in international trade or translation. He arrived on a Saturday and with several interviews lined up for the week, he spent the weekend sightseeing. At night, he returned to the tidy room and private bathroom he shared with three others for about $ 13 per night.
But by the following Monday evening, he had deflated. An interview that morning, at a start-up, had ended within a few minutes. Several hours later, he received a rejection notice from another company that he had interviewed with online before arriving. He wanted a salary of at least $ 950 a month, slightly higher than the average in Shanghai, but the likelihood seemed slim.
"Right now I feel pretty lost," Mr. Yi said, as guests with towels wrapped around wet hair padded through the lobby. "My dad just told me, it's OK, keep looking. But honestly, you still have to think about the money problem -- I don't want to waste too much. So my time is limited."
The hostels are necessary partly because of the hypercompetitive nature of China's white-collar job market. The most desirable opportunities are still concentrated in a few megacities like Shanghai or Shenzhen, even as the number of universities and university graduates around the country has ballooned. The surfeit of graduates means that candidates unwilling to travel for interviews -- and pay their own way -- may be easily dismissed.
As the Chinese economy slows, competition has grown even stiffer. Unemployment among 16- to 24-year-olds in urban areas rose to a record high of 21.3 percent in June, before the government stopped publishing the data. Even some young people who have landed jobs are paid so little that they cannot afford a deposit on a long-term lease, or are afraid to sign one for fear of suddenly being laid off. That was the case with Mr. Yi's upper bunkmate.
The competition was also weighing heavily upon Zhi Yanran, who had traveled to the hostel the day before from her home in Jiangxi Province. Ms. Zhi had done three interviews that day, and had two more the next, for positions in human resources; she had also continued to submit new applications in between.
Still, Ms. Zhi said she felt she was lagging behind her graduate school classmates, who had started applying for jobs long ago. She had begun only in September, after "lying flat" -- Chinese slang for slacking off -- for "a long time," she said.
How long exactly? About two months, since graduating in June. But that was a long time, Ms. Zhi insisted. "It's so hard to find a job now!"
Ms. Zhang was satisfied with her five-person room in the hostel, for which she was paying less than $ 11 a night, but had one minor complaint: The hostel was not nearly as lively as she had expected. Ms. Zhi had hoped to make friends, but seemingly all the other guests who were not in their rooms were sitting silently hunched over their phones or computers in individual workstations.
"It's like a college dorm mixed with a library," Ms. Zhi said, finishing a quiet takeout dinner in a dimly lit cubicle of her own.
Though recent graduates have among the highest rates of joblessness, others have struggled too. In the lobby around 9 p.m., while food delivery drivers flitted in and out calling out orders, Kris Zhang, 30, lay on a couch trying to nap.
Mr. Zhang had worked in the city of Hangzhou as a well-paid computer programmer at Alibaba, the e-commerce giant, until he was laid off earlier this year. He wanted to stay in Hangzhou, where he had already bought a house and an Audi, but couldn't find a new job there that would pay well enough to cover his more than $ 27,000 annually in mortgage and car loans.
So the week before, he had reluctantly accepted an offer in Shanghai, while continuing to look for positions in Hangzhou. He was living in the hostel in the hope that his stay in Shanghai would be brief. He showed the sparse contents of a silver hard-shell suitcase -- a few tangled shirts and shorts, taking up barely a quarter of the space -- as if manifesting that short timeline into existence.
Still, Mr. Zhang acknowledged the reality might be more difficult. "Before, you could search with your eyes closed and get dozens of offers a year," he said. "The situation now is much worse."
Around 10 p.m., Yang Han flopped onto a couch in the common room, sweaty from a game of pickup basketball. Mr. Yang, who graduated with a bachelor's degree in advertising in June, had traveled from his home in central China's Henan Province for two interviews. Shanghai was the hub of China's advertising industry, he said, and he was determined to find a job there.
He had been anxious when he arrived several days earlier. But the interviews were done, and he could do nothing more but wait. (Sort of: He had been thinking about sending a follow-up letter to one recruiter to lay out his case again.)
Mr. Yang settled into his seat and unwrapped a convenience store sandwich and a separate chicken breast -- both cheap and nutritious, he noted. Worst case, he said, he would be rejected, take the train back to Henan, submit more résumés, and wait until a next round of interviews in Shanghai. And repeat until he found a job.
Of course, he added, "I hope I don't need to make that many trips."
Li You contributed research.
Li You contributed research.
Photograph The Together Hostel in Shanghai in October. Youth hostels, costing just a few dollars a night, have become concentrated hubs for anxious young people in search of jobs in Chinese cities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); A couple checking in at a hostel in Beijing. At right, Yi Bo, a 24- year-old from Tianjin, was in China's capital looking for a job in education. With a hypercompetitive job market in China, people unwilling to travel for interviews may be easily dismissed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIÉ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Advertising; Layoffs; Hostels; Employment; Labor market

Business indexing term: Subject: Advertising Layoffs Hostels Employment Labor market

Location: China

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/01/world/asia/china-unemployment-youth-hostels.html

Title: Searching for Work While Tossing and Turning in Cheap Rooms:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 2, 2023

column: Shanghai Dispatch

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2884966940

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/searching-work-while-tossing-turning-cheap-rooms/docview/2884966940/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For China’s Jobless Young People, Hostels Are the Place to Be

Author: Wang, Vivian

Publication info: Wang, Vivian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-jobless-young-people-hostels-are-place-be/docview/2884910246/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SHANGHAI — In a youth hostel in downtown Shanghai, amid the dull roar of a hair dryer, the shriek of a blender and the lingering aroma of spicy instant noodles, Ethan Yi, 23, was pondering the state of the world.
“Why can’t I, a college graduate, find a job?” Yi lamented as he sat in the hostel’s common room after a day of unsuccessful interviews. “Why is it only jobs that pay just $400 or $500 a month that want me? Sometimes I wonder, how can it be this hard?”
That is the question being asked in hostels across China. As joblessness among young Chinese has reached record highs, hostels have become refuges for young people trying their fortunes in major cities, who need a place to crash between back-to-back interviews, to strategize on their next networking meeting or to fire off yet another résumé. They have become concentrated hubs for people’s anxiety, hopes, despair and ambitions, all packed into bunk beds that go for a few dollars a night.
At the Together Hostel, where Yi was staying, new arrivals scrolled through online job listings surrounded by wall maps highlighting the best spots for Shanghai soup dumplings. Posters advertising local comedy shows went largely ignored by fresh graduates calling their parents for advice or comfort.
Asked what he had been doing at the hostel, Yi, who was sitting idly by the smoothie bar, responded: “Thinking about life.”
Many of the guests arrive with high hopes. Yi, visiting Shanghai for the first time from his home in the central province of Hunan, was delighted to see many foreigners in the city, as he wanted to work in international trade or translation. He arrived on a Saturday and with several interviews lined up for the week, he spent the weekend sightseeing. At night, he returned to the tidy room and private bathroom he shared with three others for about $13 per night.
But by the following Monday evening, he had deflated. An interview that morning, at a startup, had ended within a few minutes. Several hours later, he received a rejection notice from another company that he had interviewed with online before arriving. He wanted a salary of at least $950 a month, slightly higher than the average in Shanghai, but the likelihood seemed slim.
“Right now I feel pretty lost,” Yi said, as guests with towels wrapped around wet hair padded through the lobby. “My dad just told me, it’s OK, keep looking. But honestly, you still have to think about the money problem — I don’t want to waste too much. So my time is limited.”
The hostels are necessary partly because of the hypercompetitive nature of China’s white-collar job market. The most desirable opportunities are still concentrated in a few megacities such as Shanghai or Shenzhen, even as the number of universities and university graduates around the country has ballooned. The surfeit of graduates means that candidates unwilling to travel for interviews — and pay their own way — may be easily dismissed.
As the Chinese economy slows, competition has grown even stiffer. Unemployment among 16- to 24-year-olds in urban areas rose to a record high of 21.3% in June, before the government stopped publishing the data. Even some young people who have landed jobs are paid so little they cannot afford a deposit on a long-term lease, or are afraid to sign one for fear of suddenly being laid off. That was the case with Yi’s upper bunkmate.
The competition was also weighing heavily upon Zhi Yanran, who had traveled to the hostel the day before from her home in Jiangxi province. Zhi had done three interviews that day, and had two more the next, for positions in human resources; she had also continued to submit new applications in between.
Still, Zhi said she felt she was lagging behind her graduate school classmates, who had started applying for jobs long ago. She had begun only in September, after “lying flat” — Chinese slang for slacking off — for “a long time,” she said.
How long exactly? About two months, since graduating in June. But that was a long time, Zhi insisted. “It’s so hard to find a job now!”
Zhang was satisfied with her five-person room in the hostel, for which she was paying less than $11 a night, but had one minor complaint: The hostel was not nearly as lively as she had expected. Zhi had hoped to make friends, but seemingly all the other guests who were not in their rooms were sitting silently hunched over their phones or computers in individual workstations.
“It’s like a college dorm mixed with a library,” Zhi said, finishing a quiet takeout dinner in a dimly lit cubicle of her own.
Though recent graduates have among the highest rates of joblessness, others have struggled, too. In the lobby around 9 p.m., while food delivery drivers flitted in and out calling out orders, Kris Zhang, 30, lay on a couch trying to nap.
Zhang had worked in the city of Hangzhou as a well-paid computer programmer at Alibaba, the e-commerce giant, until he was laid off this year. He wanted to stay in Hangzhou, where he had already bought a house and an Audi, but couldn’t find a new job there that would pay well enough to cover his more than $27,000 annually in mortgage and car loans.
So the week before, he had reluctantly accepted an offer in Shanghai, while continuing to look for positions in Hangzhou. He was living in the hostel in the hope that his stay in Shanghai would be brief. He showed the sparse contents of a silver hard-shell suitcase — a few tangled shirts and shorts, taking up barely a quarter of the space — as if manifesting that short timeline into existence.
Still, Zhang acknowledged the reality might be more difficult. “Before, you could search with your eyes closed and get dozens of offers a year,” he said. “The situation now is much worse.”
Around 10 p.m., Yang Han flopped onto a couch in the common room, sweaty from a game of pickup basketball. Yang, who graduated with a bachelor’s degree in advertising in June, had traveled from his home in central China’s Henan province for two interviews. Shanghai was the hub of China’s advertising industry, he said, and he was determined to find a job there.
He had been anxious when he arrived several days earlier. But the interviews were done, and he could do nothing more but wait. (Sort of: He had been thinking about sending a follow-up letter to one recruiter to lay out his case again.)
Yang settled into his seat and unwrapped a convenience store sandwich and a separate chicken breast — both cheap and nutritious, he noted. Worst case, he said, he would be rejected, take the train back to Henan, submit more résumés, and wait until a next round of interviews in Shanghai. And repeat until he found a job.
Of course, he added, “I hope I don’t need to make that many trips.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Advertising; Layoffs; Hostels

Business indexing term: Subject: Advertising Layoffs Hostels

Location: China; Beijing China; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Hangzhou (China); Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Alibaba Group Holding Ltd; Jiangxi (China); Hiring And Promotion; Online Advertising; Shanghai (China); Shenzhen (China); Labor And Jobs; Boredom; Urban Areas; Careers And Professions; Unemployment; Youth; Elections; Hunan Province (China); Layoffs And Job Reductions; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commer ce; World; Start Ups; Delivery Services; China

Title: For China’s Jobless Young People, Hostels Are the Place to Be

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 1, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-01T19:27:50Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2884910246

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-jobless-young-people-hostels-are-place-be/docview/2884910246/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Secrets Hamas Knew About Israel’s Military

Author: Kingsley, Patrick; Bergman, Ronen

Publication info: Kingsley, Patrick; Bergman, Ronen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/secrets-hamas-knew-about-israel-s-military/docview/2876934907/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
KIBBUTZ MISHMAR HA’EMEK, Israel — The 10 gunmen from Gaza knew exactly how to find the Israeli intelligence hub — and how to get inside.
After crossing into Israel, they headed east on five motorcycles, two gunmen on each vehicle, shooting at passing civilian cars as they pressed forward.
Ten miles later, they veered off the road into a stretch of woodland, dismounting outside an unmanned gate to a military base. They blew open the barrier with a small explosive charge, entered the base and paused to take a group selfie. Then they shot dead an unarmed Israeli soldier dressed in a T-shirt.
For a moment, the attackers appeared uncertain about where to go next. Then one of them pulled something from his pocket: a color-coded map of the complex.
Reoriented, they found an unlocked door to a fortified building. Once inside, they entered a room filled with computers — the military intelligence hub. Under a bed in the room, they found two soldiers taking shelter.
The gunmen shot both dead.
This sequence was captured on a camera mounted on the head of a gunman who was later killed. The New York Times reviewed the footage, then verified the events by interviewing Israeli officials and checking Israeli military video of the attack.
They provide chilling details of how Hamas, the militia that controls the Gaza Strip, managed to surprise and outmaneuver the most powerful military in the Middle East last Saturday — storming across the border, overrunning more than 30 square miles, taking more than 150 hostages and killing more than 1,300 people in the deadliest day for Israel in its 75-year history.
With meticulous planning and extraordinary awareness of Israel’s secrets and weaknesses, Hamas and its allies overwhelmed the length of Israel’s front with Gaza shortly after dawn, shocking a nation that has long taken the superiority of its military as an article of faith.
Using drones, Hamas destroyed key surveillance and communications towers along the border with Gaza, imposing vast blind spots on the Israeli military. With explosives and tractors, Hamas blew open gaps in the border barricades, allowing 200 attackers to pour through in the first wave and another 1,800 later that day, officials say. On motorcycles and in pickup trucks, the assailants surged into Israel, overwhelming at least eight military bases and waging terrorist attacks against civilians in more than 15 villages and cities.
Hamas planning documents, videos of the assault and interviews with security officials show that the group had a surprisingly sophisticated understanding of how the Israeli military operated, where it stationed specific units, and even the time it would take for reinforcements to arrive.
The Israeli military says that, once the war is over, it will investigate how Hamas managed to breach its defenses so easily.
But whether the armed forces were careless with their secrets or infiltrated by spies, the revelations have already unnerved officials and analysts who have questioned how the Israeli military — renowned for its intelligence gathering — could have inadvertently revealed so much information about its own operations.
The outcome was a staggering series of atrocities and massacres, in what Israeli President Isaac Herzog has described as the worst mass killing of Jews in a single day since the Holocaust.
It shattered Israel’s aura of invincibility and provoked an Israeli counterattack on Gaza that has killed more than 1,900 Palestinians in a week, the ferocity of which has never been seen in Gaza.
It also upended assumptions that Hamas, long designated a terrorist group by Israel and many Western nations, had gradually become more interested in running Gaza than in using it to launch major assaults on Israel.
Hamas made Israelis think it was “busy with governing Gaza,” Ali Barakeh, a Hamas leader, said in a television interview Monday. “All the while, under the table, Hamas was preparing for this big attack,” he added.
‘Hamas in the Kibbutz!’
The terrorists were inside Addi Cherry’s home, on the other side of an unlocked door.
Cherry, her husband and their three children were hiding inside their eldest son’s bedroom, listening to the gunmen wander around their living room.
“Please help us,” Cherry texted a friend as one of the assailants walked closer and closer to the bedroom door.
Then he gripped the door handle.
The Cherry family’s day had begun with a burst of rockets from Gaza, not long after 6 a.m.
Cherry, an economist, and her husband, Oren, an engineer, rushed with their children into their eldest son’s bedroom, which doubled as a bomb shelter.
Initially, the events of the morning felt distressingly familiar. The Cherry family lives in Kibbutz Nahal Oz, a rural village of some 500 residents in Israel, a few hundred yards east of the border with Gaza. Early morning rocket fire — and the ensuing rush to the safe room — is a frequent feature of life in the region.
“Like always,” Addi Cherry remembered thinking.
But this morning soon felt different. The rockets kept coming, many of them headed deep into Israeli territory.
Then, from the fields around the village, came the sound of gunshots.
Oren Cherry left the bedroom and peeked through the shutters on their living room windows.
“Oh, God,” Addi Cherry remembered her husband shouting. “Hamas in the kibbutz! Hamas in the kibbutz!”
It was 7:20 a.m.
Hundreds of Hamas invaders, carrying guns and shoulder-borne rocket launchers and wearing the group’s green headband, were streaming through the village fields.
It was part of a coordinated assault that, documents and video show, assigned squads of assailants to precise targets. As some swept through military bases, others charged into residential areas, ruthlessly kidnapping and killing civilians.
They would reach the Cherrys’ street within minutes.
The family had to act quickly. Their bomb shelter — a teenager’s bedroom — had no lock.
The parents grabbed a chair and wedged it under the door handle — making it harder to open.
They dragged a small cabinet and pressed it against the chair.
Then they waited. There was an army base next to the village. Its troops would be here within minutes, Addi Cherry remembered thinking.
What she didn’t know was that many of them were already dead.
‘Take Soldiers and Civilians’
All along the border, the Hamas gunmen had already overrun most, if not all, of the Israeli border bases.
Footage from the attackers’ head-mounted cameras, including the video of the raid on the intelligence hub, showed Hamas gunmen — from its highly trained Nukhba brigade — smashing through the barricades of several bases in the first light of the morning.
After breaching, they were merciless, gunning down some soldiers in their beds and underwear. In several bases, they knew exactly where the communications servers were and destroyed them, according to a senior Israeli army officer.
With much of their communications and surveillance systems down, the Israelis often couldn’t see the commandos coming. They found it harder to call for help and mount a response. In many cases, they were unable to protect themselves, let alone the surrounding civilian villages.
A Hamas planning document — found by Israeli emergency responders in one village — showed that the attackers were organized into well-defined units with clear goals and battle plans.
One platoon had designated navigators, saboteurs and drivers — as well as mortar units in the rear to provide cover for the attackers, the document shows.
The group had a specific target — a kibbutz — and the attackers were tasked with storming the village from specific angles. They had estimates for how many Israeli troops were stationed in nearby posts, how many vehicles they had at their disposal and how long it would take those Israeli relief forces to reach them.
The document is dated October 2022, suggesting that the attack had been planned for at least a year.
Elsewhere, other assailants were posted to key road junctions to ambush Israeli reinforcements, according to four senior officers and officials.
Some units had specific instructions to capture Israelis for use as bargaining chips in future prisoner exchanges with Israel.
“Take soldiers and civilians as prisoners and hostages to negotiate with,” the document said.
‘We Are Going to Die’
The terrorists smashed their way into the Cherrys’ house shortly before 10 a.m., according to texts that Addi Cherry sent friends at the time.
They had already killed the kibbutz guards as well as a civilian security volunteer who had rushed to confront them in the opening moments of the assault, according to the village leadership.
Now the terrorists were going house by house, trying to find people to kill and kidnap.
“Please send help,” Addi Cherry typed into her phone.
At the Cherrys’ house, they forced in the door. Then they charged in, shouting and ransacking the house, Addi Cherry said.
“We are going to die,” she remembered thinking.
The family waited in terrified silence, hoping the intruders would ignore the door to the bedroom and assume everyone was away.
Addi Cherry and her husband put all their weight against the cabinet, to brace the chair underneath the door handle.
Guy, 15, their eldest son, stood next to the door, holding an 18-pound dumbbell. If someone did break in, the plan was to drop it on the assailant’s head.
Then the handle twitched.
The parents began to push the cabinet.
The handle continued to rattle.
Then it stopped. The assailant walked away.
A few streets away, the family of Miki Levi, who oversees the kibbutz gardens, had an even closer call.
After a terrorist squad chased Levi, 47, inside his safe room, the attackers sprayed bullets at the reinforced door, Levi said in an interview.
Some of the bullets pierced the door, creating large openings, and Levi said he also fired back with his pistol, shredding it further. His wife and two young daughters sheltered to the side.
Changing tactics, the terrorists later brought two of his neighbors — a mother and her 12-year-old daughter, Levi said.
At gunpoint, the mother and child were told to persuade him to open up, Levi said.
“‘Come out and stop shooting,’” Levi recounted one of them saying. “‘The terrorists won’t do anything to you.’”
Eventually, the terrorists gave up that approach and returned with a rocket-propelled grenade launcher, Levi said.
It was only when Levi shot one attacker in the thigh that they finally left, he added.
The mother and child, Levi suspects, are now captives in Gaza.
‘Bodies Were Burning’
Brig. Gen. Dan Goldfus said he drove south without knowing where exactly he should go.
Goldfus, 46, a paratrooper commander, had been on leave at home, jogging in his neighborhood north of Tel Aviv, Israel. Then he saw a video from the south, showing terrorists cruising through a city, entirely unimpeded.
Without waiting for orders, the general said he ran home, changed into his uniform and headed south.
He picked up guns and two soldiers from his base in central Israel and called friends and colleagues to find out what was happening.
Only a few picked up. Of the rest, “There was nobody really understanding the full picture,” Goldfus said in an interview.
The speed, precision and scale of Hamas’ attack had thrown the Israeli military into disarray, and for many hours afterward, civilians were left to fend for themselves.
Using the few scraps of information he could glean, Goldfus said he and the soldiers headed to a village north of Nahal Oz, then gradually worked their way south.
It was around 10 a.m. All around him was carnage and atrocity.
Dead Israelis lined the roads, alongside the husks of burned-out, overturned cars.
At the site of an all-night outdoor rave, gunmen had killed an estimated 260 partygoers.
“Bodies were burning,” Goldfus remembered seeing at the site.
The attack by Hamas had unleashed a violent free-for-all. Some residents of Gaza had poured over the undefended border after it was breached, at times streaming what they were doing on their phones. Gazans were looting and ransacking homes, taking computers, clothes, crockery, televisions and phones, survivors said.
In some Israeli villages, residents had been burned alive in their homes while terrorists stalked civilians at every turn, looking for people to capture and kill. Grandparents, toddlers and a 9-month-old baby were seized and taken back to Gaza, some of them squeezed between their kidnappers on motorcycles.
And during much of the mayhem, the Israeli army was almost nowhere to be seen.
Near Kibbutz Reim, Goldfus said he ran into another senior commander by chance. Like him, the officer had rushed to the scene on instinct, without any instructions, and had assembled a small group of soldiers.
There and then, the two men came up with their own ad hoc strategy.
“There’s no orders here,” Goldfus said. “I said, ‘You take from this place and further south — and I’ll take from this place and further north.’”
That was how some of the Israeli counterattack took place: soldiers or civilian volunteers — including retired generals in their 60s — rushing to the region and doing what they could.
Israel Ziv, a former general, reached a nearby battle in his Audi.
Yair Golan, a retired deputy chief of staff and former leftist lawmaker, said he took a gun and began rescuing survivors of a massacre at a rave who were hiding in nearby bushes.
“We are brought up to run as fast as possible toward the fire,” said Goldfus. “So that we can be the first one there.”
‘It’s OK. We’re Jewish.’
The intelligence hub near Gaza was one of the first places to be recaptured by Israel.
In the late morning, soldiers and reservists from different units reached the base from separate directions, overpowering the 10 Gazan gunmen who had filmed their deadly assault on video.
The camera mounted on the Hamas commander’s head captured the moment he was shot and killed. The camera falls off, bouncing along the ground. By the time the video stops, the commander can be seen slumped on the ground, revealing his long beard and thinning hairline.
In other parts of southern Israel, the first formal reinforcements came from an Israeli commando unit that arrived in helicopters, according to the senior Israeli officer.
They were followed by other special operations units, including Israeli navy seals and a reconnaissance unit trained to operate deep inside enemy lines rather than on Israeli soil.
Sometimes, the commandos joined forces with volunteers without body armor who had rushed into the fray to rescue family members.
Noam Tibon, a former general, drove south with his pistol to try to retake Kibbutz Nahal Oz, where his son, Amir, a journalist, was trapped.
In the early afternoon, the elder Tibon joined a squad that was making its way through the kibbutz, house by house.
By Sunday afternoon, several villages and bases still had some kind of Hamas presence. The whole area would not be fully secured for days.
Addi Cherry emerged around 5 p.m. Saturday in Kibbutz Nahal Oz to find her home turned upside down, the microwave torn from the wall, drawers ripped from their cabinets and a pool of drying blood on the floor.
She had heard a gunbattle in and around her home earlier in the day. She believed a terrorist had died in the house — and that his bloodied corpse had been carried off by fellow fighters.
Some survivors refused to open up, even after the army arrived.
When soldiers reached the home of Oshrit Sabag, another resident of Kibbutz Nahal Oz, she feared they were terrorists in disguise.
Even after the soldiers began chatting to one another in Hebrew to prove who they were, Sabag, 48, was unconvinced.
It was only their Jewish prayers that made her relax.
“‘It’s OK, it’s OK,’” Sabag remembered them saying. “‘We’re Jewish.’”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Terrorism; Assaults; Planning; Intelligence gathering; Military bases; Surveillance; Military personnel; Kidnapping; Civilians; Towns

Location: New York; United States--US; Israel; Gaza Strip

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940; Name: Al-Shifa Hospital; NAICS: 622110

Identifier / keyword: Traffic Accidents And Safety; Defense And Military Forces; Tel Aviv (Israel); International Relations; Civilian Casualties; Jerusalem (Israel); Firearms; Kidnapping And Hostages; New York Times; Herzog, Isaac; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Hamas; Privacy; War And Armed Conflicts; Military Bases And Installations; Burns; Chairs; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Palestinians; Israel; Politics And Government; Automobiles; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Fugitives; Middle East; World; Volunteers And Community Service; Deaths (Fatalities); Motorcycles, Motor Bikes And Motorscooters; Bergman, Ronen; Gaza Strip; Cameras; Fires And Firefighters; Mass Shootings; Robberies And Thefts; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Jews And Judaism; Ziv, Israel (1957 ); Kibbutz Movement; Terrorism

Title: The Secrets Hamas Knew About Israel’s Military

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 14, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-14T17:21:15Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876934907

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/secrets-hamas-knew-about-israel-s-military/docview/2876934907/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Ex-General Who Grabbed His Pistol and Took On Hamas: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Gettleman, Jeffrey

Publication info: Gettleman, Jeffrey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-general-who-grabbed-his-pistol-took-on-hamas/docview/2876231755/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: By rushing to confront the attackers himself, Israel Ziv has become a public symbol of Israel's former military successes -- and its failure this time.
Israel Ziv, a retired Israeli Army general, was taking a bike ride Saturday morning when a flood of alarming calls started coming in.
A huge barrage of rockets had been fired from Gaza. Gunmen from Hamas, the armed Palestinian group that controls the territory, were pouring across the border. Soon he would learn a friend's son was trapped in a kibbutz.
He raced home, put on his uniform and grabbed his weapon, a nine-millimeter pistol.
Within minutes he was flying down a deserted highway in his new white Audi. As he neared the Gaza border, columns of black smoke rose in front of him, and the Israeli Army, at least at first, was nowhere to be seen. Hamas attackers were running across the landscape, hunched under the weight of heavy machine guns and rocket propelled grenade launchers, shooting at him.
"They were all over," he said. "Hundreds of them."
Mr. Ziv, stocky, spiky-haired, a bit irascible, and the former head of the operations directorate of the Israel Defense Forces, is a well-known figure in Israel, especially now. His actions over the weekend -- driving headlong into the battle zone armed only with a pistol, organizing a confused group of soldiers into a fighting unit and overseeing evacuations -- have been widely publicized on Israeli news channels. In the process he has become an avatar of Israel's D.I.Y. spirit -- and of the failure of its military and intelligence agencies.
The Israeli government said the toll in the devastating incursion by Hamas had reached 1,200 people killed, most of them unarmed civilians.
Already, amid the anguish over the slaughter, public frustrations are beginning to boil, with many Israelis, Mr. Ziv among them, taking issue with the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
"The government is totally paralyzed," said Mr. Ziv, who, even before this crisis, was extremely critical of Mr. Netanyahu for what he said were policies that bitterly divided Israelis and put the country's security at risk.
Nevertheless, Mr. Ziv is still welcome in Israel's corridors of power. On Wednesday, he held several teleconferences with captains of industry about raising tens of millions of dollars to help victims and their families.
"Just for civilians," he shouted into his phone. "None of it for the army."
He spoke to the top brass of the military and the police about shoring up a civilian defense force that had clearly been overwhelmed.
He even walked into Israel's Defense Ministry, where he met with the defense minister, Yoav Gallant, and held secret meetings with national security officials in which they left their mobile phones on the hallway floor before stepping inside a small office for a chat that, the hope was, could not be tracked.
So weakened is public faith in the country's military that one of the biggest issues Israelis are talking about is arming themselves. Many already own weapons, but the government announced this week that it was purchasing 10,000 assault rifles for civilians, along with bulletproof vests. Mr. Ziv is spearheading an effort to empower retired generals and former soldiers to rebuild community defense squads in the Gaza border area and around the country.
"We need weapons," one man pleaded with Mr. Ziv as he visited a massacre site on Wednesday. "And we need a system."
Mr. Ziv put a hand on the man's back and said, "We are putting together that system right now."
As they spoke, huge booms thundered and black smoke billowed up from the horizon, obscuring the banana farms and the wire fence along Gaza's border with Israel that Hamas had breached to launch the assault. Gaza, only a few miles away, has been under relentless attack by Israeli warplanes since Saturday, killing hundreds of Palestinians.
And in just about every village where Israelis have been slaughtered, when a light breeze stirred the slender eucalyptus trees it also carried the smell of death.
Mr. Ziv spent Wednesday moving through this landscape. Sixty-six years old and a decorated paratrooper, he revisited the same terrain where he had tried to rescue as many people as he could. That included the site of the ill-fated desert rave party where Hamas terrorists massacred hundreds of young people -- which Mr. Ziv believes might have been a primary target of the attack. Just about everywhere he went, soldiers and civilians thanked him, then shyly asked for a selfie.
His account of what he did on Saturday has been backed up by other retired generals and active duty officers who fought with him over the weekend.
He left his house, a beautiful home overlooking olive groves near Tel Aviv, and arrived in the battle zone around 10 a.m. He was traveling with a close friend, Noam Tibon, a retired general whose son was trapped in the Nahal Oz kibbutz.
Mr. Tibon's son, a prominent journalist, had called his father in deep distress, saying gunmen were closing in on him and his family. In recent media interviews, Mr. Tibon said he told his son: "Trust me, I will come. This is my profession. Nobody can stop me."
Mr. Ziv said that as they drove closer to Gaza, fires burned everywhere and unchallenged Hamas gunmen fired into buildings and passing cars. At first, he said, he didn't see any Israeli soldiers. But as they traveled deeper toward the besieged villages, they encountered small bands of Israeli soldiers trying to fight back but clearly outnumbered.
"Things were not organized," Mr. Ziv said.
He and Mr. Tibon linked up with a platoon of young soldiers, piled several of them into the Audi and began attacking Hamas gunmen on the road, Mr. Ziv said.
It was difficult taking them on with just a pistol, Mr. Ziv said, but after a soldier in his car was wounded, Mr. Ziv snatched his M16 and started firing out the window.
The worst feeling, though, was knowing that although they were some of the first responders, they were already too late.
Bodies were strewn on the highway, along the paths in the kibbutzim, in the patches of shaded forest they passed. What Mr. Ziv shared has been corroborated by extensive video and photo evidence, some of it filmed by the Hamas gunmen themselves. They hunted down Israeli civilians sitting in their cars, huddling in their homes, hiding at a bus stop and running for their lives.
"No one could imagine they would do what they did," Mr. Ziv said. "It is a brutality that we have not witnessed since the establishment of Israel."
He added, "So now we need to change the whole doctrine about Gaza. No more Hamas."
How do you do that? he was asked.
"Level the ground," he said.
Mr. Ziv and Mr. Tibon split up near the kibbutz where Mr. Tibon's son lives. While Mr. Tibon joined a group of Israeli soldiers fighting Hamas members there, and eventually rescued his son, Mr. Ziv raced to other hot spots. He said he spent nearly 24 hours straight rushing around the kibbutzim and villages under attack, firing his own weapon, organizing evacuations of civilians and coordinating with the military to dispatch backup units as fast as possible.
The worst he found was the rave site. On Friday night, several thousand young people, Israelis and many foreigners, had flocked to an open field a few miles from the Gaza border to hold an overnight open-air dance party. By the time Mr. Ziv reached it Saturday night, he said, there was nothing left to be done.
There were bodies everywhere: in the campsite; in the field where everyone had been dancing; in car after car after car lining the road, filled with young people trying to escape.
He ran to one young man slumped out of a car and felt his neck. No pulse.
"I think the trigger for this whole attack was this event," Mr. Ziv said. "Hamas planned this for a long time. But they knew a critical mass would be here this weekend."
From evidence the Israeli military found at the rave site, and what witnesses said, the Hamas attackers surrounded the gathering on three sides. One group of gunmen opened fire on the crowd, methodically driving the panicked partygoers toward the road, where more gunmen were waiting to mow them down.
"I can still hear them screaming," Mr. Ziv said.
He stood on the site looking out at a field littered with water bottles, rolled up sleeping mats, still-full boxes of Oreos, shirts, pants, tents and empty camp chairs. It was like everything was there but the people. One soldier quietly moved past him, carrying a black plastic bag, looking for documents.
"People don't understand how fragile the situation is," Mr. Ziv said. "Hamas has to pay for this." He paused. "With their existence."
He then walked away.
Photograph Israel Ziv leaped into action. (A1); Four days after the massacre of hundreds of young people at a desert rave party, Israel Ziv went back to the site on Wednesday. "I can still hear them screaming," he said. Left, a camping area for the party. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A1, A9.

Subject: Automobiles; Defense; Military personnel; Armed forces; Roads & highways; Military weapons; Military strategy

Location: Gaza Strip; Israel

People: Ziv, Yisrael

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/12/world/middleeast/general-ziv-hamas-israel.html

Title: The Ex-General Who Grabbed His Pistol and Took On Hamas:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 13, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876231755

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-general-who-grabbed-his-pistol-took-on-hamas/docview/2876231755/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Retired Israeli General Who Grabbed His Pistol and Took On Hamas

Author: Gettleman, Jeffrey

Publication info: Gettleman, Jeffrey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/retired-israeli-general-who-grabbed-his-pistol/docview/2876184196/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BE’ERI, Israel — Israel Ziv, a retired Israeli army general, was taking a bike ride Saturday morning when a flood of alarming calls started coming in.
A huge barrage of rockets had been fired from the Gaza Strip. Gunmen from Hamas, the armed Palestinian group that controls the territory, were pouring across the border. Soon he would learn a friend’s son was trapped in a kibbutz.
He raced home, put on his uniform and grabbed his weapon, a 9 mm pistol.
Within minutes he was flying down a deserted highway in his new white Audi. As he neared the Gaza border, columns of black smoke rose in front of him, and the Israeli army, at least at first, was nowhere to be seen. Hamas attackers were running across the landscape, hunched under the weight of heavy machine guns and rocket propelled grenade launchers, shooting at him.
“They were all over,” he said. “Hundreds of them.”
Ziv, stocky, spiky-haired, a bit irascible, and the former head of the operations directorate of the Israel Defense Forces, is a well-known figure in Israel, especially now. His actions over the weekend — driving headlong into the battle zone armed only with a pistol, organizing a confused group of soldiers into a fighting unit and overseeing evacuations — have been widely publicized on Israeli news channels. In the process he has become an avatar of Israel’s DIY spirit — and of the failure of its military and intelligence agencies.
The Israeli government said the toll in the devastating incursion by Hamas had reached 1,200 people killed, most of them unarmed civilians.
Already, amid the anguish over the slaughter, public frustrations are beginning to boil, with many Israelis, Ziv among them, taking issue with the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
“The government is totally paralyzed,” said Ziv, who, even before this crisis, was extremely critical of Netanyahu for what he said were policies that bitterly divided Israelis and put the country’s security at risk.
Nevertheless, Ziv is still welcome in Israel’s corridors of power. On Wednesday, he held several teleconferences with captains of industry about raising tens of millions of dollars to help victims and their families.
“Just for civilians,” he shouted into his phone. “None of it for the army.”
He spoke to the top brass of the military and the police about shoring up a civilian defense force that had clearly been overwhelmed.
He even walked into Israel’s Defense Ministry, where he met with Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and held secret meetings with national security officials in which they left their mobile phones on the hallway floor before stepping inside a small office for a chat that, the hope was, could not be tracked.
So weakened is public faith in the country’s military that one of the biggest issues Israelis are talking about is arming themselves. Many already own weapons, but the government announced this week that it was purchasing 10,000 assault rifles for civilians, along with bulletproof vests. Ziv is spearheading an effort to empower retired generals and former soldiers to rebuild community defense squads in the Gaza border area and around the country.
“We need weapons,” one man pleaded with Ziv as he visited a massacre site Wednesday. “And we need a system.”
Ziv put a hand on the man’s back and said, “We are putting together that system right now.”
As they spoke, huge booms thundered and black smoke billowed up from the horizon, obscuring the banana farms and the wire fence along Gaza’s border with Israel that Hamas had breached to launch the assault. Gaza, only a few miles away, has been under relentless attack by Israeli warplanes since Saturday, killing hundreds of Palestinians.
And in just about every village where Israelis have been slaughtered, when a light breeze stirred the slender eucalyptus trees it also carried the smell of death.
Ziv spent Wednesday moving through this landscape. Sixty-six years old and a decorated paratrooper, he revisited the same terrain where he had tried to rescue as many people as he could. That included the site of the ill-fated desert rave party where Hamas terrorists massacred hundreds of young people — which Ziv believes might have been a primary target of the attack. Just about everywhere he went, soldiers and civilians thanked him, then shyly asked for a selfie.
His account of what he did Saturday has been backed up by other retired generals and active duty officers who fought with him over the weekend.
He left his house, a beautiful home overlooking olive groves near Tel Aviv, and arrived in the battle zone around 10 a.m. He was traveling with a close friend, Noam Tibon, a retired general whose son was trapped in the Nahal Oz kibbutz.
Tibon’s son, a prominent journalist, had called his father in deep distress, saying gunmen were closing in on him and his family. In recent media interviews, Tibon said he told his son: “Trust me, I will come. This is my profession. Nobody can stop me.”
Ziv said that as they drove closer to Gaza, fires burned everywhere and unchallenged Hamas gunmen fired into buildings and passing cars. At first, he said, he didn’t see any Israeli soldiers. But as they traveled deeper toward the besieged villages, they encountered small bands of Israeli soldiers trying to fight back but clearly outnumbered.
“Things were not organized,” Ziv said.
He and Tibon linked up with a platoon of young soldiers, piled several of them into the Audi and began attacking Hamas gunmen on the road, Ziv said.
It was difficult taking them on with just a pistol, Ziv said, but after a soldier in his car was wounded, Ziv snatched his M16 and started firing out the window.
The worst feeling, though, was knowing that although they were some of the first responders, they were already too late.
Bodies were strewn on the highway, along the paths in the kibbutzim, in the patches of shaded forest they passed. What Ziv shared has been corroborated by extensive video and photo evidence, some of it filmed by the Hamas gunmen themselves. They hunted down Israeli civilians sitting in their cars, huddling in their homes, hiding at a bus stop and running for their lives.
“No one could imagine they would do what they did,” Ziv said. “It is a brutality that we have not witnessed since the establishment of Israel.”
He added, “So now we need to change the whole doctrine about Gaza. No more Hamas.”
How do you do that? he was asked.
“Level the ground,” he said.
Ziv and Tibon split up near the kibbutz where Tibon’s son lives. While Tibon joined a group of Israeli soldiers fighting Hamas members there, and eventually rescued his son, Ziv raced to other hot spots. He said he spent nearly 24 hours straight rushing around the kibbutzim and villages under attack, firing his own weapon, organizing evacuations of civilians and coordinating with the military to dispatch backup units as fast as possible.
The worst he found was the rave site. On Friday night, several thousand young people, Israelis and many foreigners, had flocked to an open field a few miles from the Gaza border to hold an overnight open-air dance party. By the time Ziv reached it Saturday night, he said, there was nothing left to be done.
There were bodies everywhere: in the campsite; in the field where everyone had been dancing; in car after car after car lining the road, filled with young people trying to escape.
He ran to one young man slumped out of a car and felt his neck. No pulse.
“I think the trigger for this whole attack was this event,” Ziv said. “Hamas planned this for a long time. But they knew a critical mass would be here this weekend.”
From evidence the Israeli military found at the rave site, and what witnesses said, the Hamas attackers surrounded the gathering on three sides. One group of gunmen opened fire on the crowd, methodically driving the panicked partygoers toward the road, where more gunmen were waiting to mow them down.
“I can still hear them screaming,” Ziv said.
He stood on the site looking out at a field littered with water bottles, rolled up sleeping mats, still-full boxes of Oreos, shirts, pants, tents and empty camp chairs. It was like everything was there but the people. One soldier quietly moved past him, carrying a black plastic bag, looking for documents.
“People don’t understand how fragile the situation is,” Ziv said. “Hamas has to pay for this.” He paused. “With their existence.”
He then walked away.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobiles; Defense; Military personnel; Armed forces; Military weapons; Roads & highways

Location: Gaza Strip; New York; United States--US; Israel

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Hamas; War And Armed Conflicts; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Dancing; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Tel Aviv (Israel); World; Gaza Strip; Civilian Casualties; Mass Shootings; Travel And Vacations; Age, Chronological; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Youth; Elections; Palestinians; Israel; Politics And Government; Smells And Odors; Automobiles; Espionage And Intelligence Services; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Zoning; Defense And Military Forces; Bullet Proof Clothing; Gettleman, Jeffrey; Jews And Judaism; Border Barriers; Roads And Traffic; Kibbutz Movement; Appointments And Executive Changes

Title: The Retired Israeli General Who Grabbed His Pistol and Took On Hamas

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-12T19:52:47Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: Uni ted States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876184196

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/retired-israeli-general-who-grabbed-his-pistol/docview/2876184196/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

German E-Bikes Gain Power as the Car Industry Falters: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/german-e-bikes-gain-power-as-car-industry-falters/docview/2874120909/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: E-bikes sales in Germany have jumped, as drivers, suppliers and even automakers embrace their role in the future of transportation.
Germany's automakers are facing steep challenges as they convert to battery-powered lineups and confront rising competition from China. But business is booming in another corner of the German transport industry: e-bikes.
Sales of bicycles in Germany reached a record 7.36 billion euros, or $ 7.8 billion, in 2022, with e-bikes accounting for nearly half of sales, according to the German Bicycle Industry Association. The group is forecasting that this year, for the first time, Germans will buy more e-bikes than conventional models.
Electric bicycles and scooters are the backbone of what's known as micromobility, seen as crucial to cutting the carbon emissions of transportation and helping to ease pollution and congestion in European cities. Analysts at EY cite e-bikes as the factor behind predicted annual growth of 4.6 percent in Europe's bicycle market in the coming five years, as more people adjust their lifestyles to cut emissions. At the same time, the number of privately owned cars could drop by as much as 25 percent, according to a study by PWC, as consumers shift to car sharing and alternative mobility models.
Germany's auto industry has noticed. Porsche offers a sporty, all-terrain e-bike -- with the carmaker's familiar gold-and-red crest under the handlebars. Audi has a similar model.
"Demand for micromobility is growing," said Sandra Wolf, the chief executive of Riese & Müller, a leading German bicycle maker with a wide range of electric models. "E-bikes play an important role in that."
Germany is Europe's largest overall market for bicycles, and in recent years German bike makers have seen a growing demand for their e-bikes abroad, especially within Europe. China is the world's largest producer of e-bikes, but duties imposed by the European Union on Chinese imports have helped to shield producers in Europe.
Several German firms are among the leading e-bike manufacturers in Europe, along with rivals in France, Italy and the Netherlands. In the first quarter of this year, exports of battery-powered bicycles made in Germany jumped 56 percent from a year earlier, according to the German Bicycle Industry Association.
That sort of growth has attracted investors. Last year LRMR Ventures, the investment firm of the National Basketball Association star LeBron James, led a group investing €30 million in Canyon, a German bicycle producer based in Koblenz, with an eye to expanding its e-bike offerings and presence in the United States.
Germany's largest automobile show, in Munich, was rebranded as a "mobility" fair in 2021. During a panel discussion at the show this month, Oliver Blume, the chief executive of Volkswagen, explained how his company was working on technology to reduce the cost of the batteries for electric vehicles.
Ms. Wolf, who was also on the panel, said cycling was already filling the space for more affordable, sustainable transportation. "It is one of the cheapest transport modes and one with easiest access," she said.
Still, the average e-bike in Germany sold for €2,800, or nearly $ 3,000, last year, according to the German Bicycle Industry Association, a high price point that has made leasing popular. Across Europe, some companies are offering employees a perk of leasing an e-bike for commuting. Delivery firms are also renting electric cargo bikes -- the larger models capable of carrying heavy or bulky loads -- for their drivers.
Automakers are getting into this market, too. "Bike leasing is booming," said Christian Dahlheim, the chief executive of Volkswagen's Financial Services division, which handles leasing of the company's cars. Volkswagen recently teamed up with Pon, a Dutch company, in a venture focused on leasing bicycles to workers via their employers, with an eye to expanding in Europe and the United States.
Companies known for auto parts also see opportunities in e-bikes. Bosch, long a leading supplier of powertrains and other technology for German automakers, is now a major supplier of the batteries, motors and brakes for e-bikes. Technology originally developed for cars, such as anti-lock breaks, are now being used in e-bikes.
Increasingly, customers are looking for more nimble, lighter e-bikes that can carry cargo loads of up to 140 pounds. Such models are growing in popularity, with families seeking a car-free way to transport children and groceries.
Older riders who want to remain mobile and active, but are looking for what William Kraus, 67, called "a little boost," are another growing target market. Mr. Kraus, who tried several models on display at the show in Munich, said he hadn't decided on the right one yet for himself and his wife.
But he was convinced that the next vehicle he bought would be an e-bike.
"They take the strain out of riding and make it more fun," he said. And while prices ranging from $ 2,000 to $ 5,000 were still high, they were a fraction of the $ 35,000 starting price for a new electric car.
Photograph A bicyclist took an Audi e-bike on a test ride at the mobility fair, a rebrand of what was Germany's largest auto show, in Munich last month, left and below. Last year, the average e-bike in Germany sold for nearly $ 3,000. Parts of the Audi e-tron electric mountain bike, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FELIX SCHMITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Automobile industry; Electric bicycles; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Leasing; Bicycling

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Automobile sales Leasing

Location: China; United States--US; Germany; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/30/world/europe/germany-ebikes-transportation.html

Title: German E-Bikes Gain Power as the Car Industry Falters:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2874120909

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/german-e-bikes-gain-power-as-car-industry-falters/docview/2874120909/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Rising Costs of Owning a Car: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Carrns, Ann

Publication info: Carrns, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rising-costs-owning-car/docview/2867495013/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Everything is going up -- buying, financing, insurance and maintenance. The average annual cost of ownership, by one estimate, is $ 12,000.
It's getting more expensive to own and operate a new car.
The average annual cost of ownership is up more than 13 percent from last year to more than $ 12,000, or just over $ 1,000 a month, according to the latest research from the automobile owners group AAA. Higher car prices and the surging costs of financing, insuring and maintaining a new car all contributed to the increase. The analysis also considered depreciation a cost even though it's not paid out of pocket.
Where does that leave consumers who are already squeezed by rising gas prices, the higher costs for food and other goods, as well as increasing interest rates on their credit cards?
Drivers should consider their true needs and driving habits when choosing a vehicle, said Greg Brannon, director of automotive research for AAA. "It's really up to your specific situation."
The average cost per mile for a vehicle driven 15,000 miles a year is about 81 cents, AAA says. But it's $ 1.06 for a popular half-ton pickup truck like a Chevrolet Silverado. If you need a truck only occasionally to haul mulch from the garden center, it might make sense to buy a smaller car -- say, a compact sport utility vehicle like a Nissan Rogue -- at about 67 cents per mile and rent a truck when you really need one.
"It's very expensive to own a pickup that you only use as a pickup once or twice a year," Mr. Brannon said.
The cheapest option is a small sedan, at about 60 cents a mile, AAA found. For shoppers, however, it may be challenging to find lower-priced sedans on dealer lots, said Benjamin Preston, an automotive reporter at Consumer Reports. That's because automakers have been emphasizing production of more profitable models, like big S.U.V.s and trucks with lots of extra features, he said.
While new car inventories are improving, Mr. Preston said, "if you're looking for an affordable car, it's a tough time." If you can wait a few months for delivery, you can order the specific model you want -- without extra bells and whistles -- through a dealer, he said.
While used car prices have moderated, Mr. Preston said, higher interest rates, particularly for older, lower-priced models, may make them more expensive to buy. According to Experian Automotive, which tracks automobile financing, the average interest rate for a used car loan rose to 11.38 percent from 8.84 percent last year, while the average payment rose to $ 528 from $ 519.
According to an analysis from iSeeCars.com, an online car search site, buyers with a $ 23,000 budget could buy a three-year-old car in 2019, but the same amount is not enough for the average six-year-old car today.
If you do choose an older used car, Mr. Preston said -- five years old or more -- keep in mind that it is unlikely to be covered by a manufacturer's warranty. So choose a model with a history of reliability and have a mechanic check it out before buying.
The average price of the new cars included in AAA's 2023 study, based on the manufacturer's suggested retail price, is about $ 35,000, up 4.7 percent from last year, while the average annual finance charge almost doubled, to $ 1,253, AAA found. The report projects new cars will depreciate by an average of $ 4,538 per year over five years of ownership, up 24 percent over 2022.
(The higher depreciation reflects the slipping used car prices and high new car prices. "You pay more, but it's worth less," Mr. Brannon of AAA said.)
The report, based on information from the automotive data researcher Vincentric and other sources, used the five most popular 2023 models in nine categories, excluding luxury cars. It estimates the cost of using a new car over five years and 75,000 miles, considering costs for fuel and maintenance, insurance, license and registration fees, taxes, and depreciation. It doesn't include the cost of parking, which can add hundreds or thousands of dollars to the cost of car ownership if you live in a big city.
Other analyses show new-car prices to be even higher. Kelley Blue Book, a unit of Cox Automotive, said the average transaction price for a new car -- what buyers actually pay -- was about $ 48,500 in August, roughly flat with a year earlier, held in check by growing inventories and incentives like cash-back rebates. (Kelley's figure includes luxury cars, like those from Audi and Mercedes-Benz, which have raised prices.)
One unknown is the possible effect on car prices of the United Automobile Workers strike. The strike isn't expected to affect consumer prices in the near term, according to Cox Automotive, but prices could rise if the strike lasts long enough to affect the supply of new vehicles.
Here are some questions and answers about managing car costs:
What are current interest rates on new car loans?
The average interest rate for a new-car loan rose to 6.63 percent in the second quarter this year from 4.6 percent a year earlier, according to Experian Automotive. More borrowers are choosing shorter-term loans, said Melinda Zabritski, head of automotive finance insights at Experian, because shoppers can usually get lower rates on shorter-term loans, and because carmakers are offering extra incentives on those loans. A shorter loan reduces the overall expense but increases the size of monthly payments.
The average monthly new-car payment rose to $ 729 from $ 672 in the second quarter. Maintaining a good credit score can help you get a better rate on your car loan.
My auto insurance premium is increasing. What can I do?
Car insurance costs are rising as insurers face higher losses for accidents, repairs and natural disasters. In some cases, according to the consumer research firm J.D. Power, drivers are skipping coverage, even though most states require minimum coverage, because they can't afford premiums. The number of households with at least one car that said they didn't have auto insurance rose to 5.7 percent in the first half of 2023, from 5.3 percent in the second half of 2022. (J.D. Power said it did not have data for first half of 2022.)
Drivers should get quotes from several insurers and ask what steps they can take to lower their costs, the company said, such as raising their deductibles -- the amount of a claim they must pay out of pocket.
What about going carless?
As car ownership becomes more costly, you may want to consider if you can get by without one, especially if you live in an urban area with good public transportation or wide availability of ride-sharing services. Zipcar, a unit of Avis Budget Group, says members can save thousands of dollars annually by using its self-service car rentals.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Prices; Interest rates; Costs; Automobile insurance; Loans; Inventory

Business indexing term: Subject: Interest rates Costs Automobile insurance Loans Inventory

Company / organization: Name: J D Power & Associates; NAICS: 541910; Name: Experian Automotive; NAICS: 513210, 541512

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/your-money/car-ownership-costs-increase.html

Title: The Rising Costs of Owning a Car:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 23, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2867495013

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rising-costs-owning-car/docview/2867495013/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 23, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Solo Sung In Isolation Fills Space With Life: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Barone, Joshua

Publication info: Barone, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/solo-sung-isolation-fills-space-with-life/docview/2866624888/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The tenor Jonas Kaufmann stars in "Doppelganger," a staging of "Schwanengesang" by Claus Guth, making his New York debut.
In Schubert's song "Der Doppelgänger," a piano resounds with increasingly tormented chords as the narrator recounts a realization: that a pained stranger, wringing his hands in the night, is in fact himself.
"I think there is something like a moment where your soul steps out, and your body is there," the director Claus Guth said about the song over coffee in Munich. "It's this shocking moment: You understand that you're dying."
That instant, he said, is the heart of "Schwanengesang," the posthumous collection of Schubert's final songs, which is often performed as a cycle, like the composer's canonical "Die Schöne Müllerin" and "Winterreise." And it's that harrowing, transitional state that has inspired Guth's staging of "Schwanengesang," called "Doppelganger," which premieres at the Park Avenue Armory in New York on Friday.
The production -- featuring the star tenor Jonas Kaufmann performing with his longtime collaborator, the pianist Helmut Deutsch -- will be the New York debut of Guth, one of the most sought-after opera directors in Europe.
Schubert's music is regularly presented in the Armory's intimate Board of Officers Room, the site of most of the arts center's recitals. But the composer's songs, like those of "Schwanengesang," originally sung in parlors, are much less expected, and seemingly ill-suited, for the vast drill hall. But "Doppelganger" will unfold there amid an installation (designed by Michael Levine) of more than 60 hospital beds occupied by wounded soldiers. Kaufmann will rise from one of them, to think back on his life at the moment of his death.
The path to "Doppelganger" was long, and not just because the production, originally planned for fall 2020, was delayed by pandemic closures. Years ago, Pierre Audi, the Armory's artistic director, approached Guth and Kaufmann about a music theater project for the drill hall, inspired by little more than their prestige and friendship, which goes back to their education at the Hochschule für Musik in Munich.
"I gave them carte blanche to propose something," said Audi, one of the few dreamers in New York who can still commission work on the monumental scale of the Armory. Kaufmann said that he and Guth discussed music by Strauss, Mahler and Wagner, as well as Janacek's frequently staged cycle "The Diary of One Who Disappeared."
But the idea of mounting, say, Mahler's "Kindertotenlieder" didn't appeal to Guth. "If you have this huge orchestra, it will be the same structure you have at a normal concert," he said. "So, how to get this very specific situation of not being in the opera house or concert hall? We thought it would be great to have in this huge hall just this lonely singer exposed."
They arrived at the idea of a song recital. And from there, Guth said, "It must be Schubert."
He researched the history of the Armory, and was struck as much by its use as a hospital and shelter as by its housing of a militia regiment. "It's interesting to think of this place not as a drill hall, but the opposite," he said.
Guth also thought about the "Schwanengesang" song "Kriegers Ahnung," in which a soldier worries about dying in battle and longs for "how cheerful the fireside glow seemed when she lay in my arms." "My storytelling is, say, the last hour of this wounded soldier," Guth said. "And in this last hour you see his flashbacks and his dreams."
Levine -- a collaborator with Guth on a Metropolitan Opera-bound production of Janacek's "Jenufa" -- responded to that idea with a design incorporating a dreamily expansive field of hospital beds, in part as an attempt to rise to the drill hall's size.
"You want to address the space itself," he said on a recent afternoon at the Armory, gesturing to the set as it was being arranged. "It's a thrilling space to put anything in, and in a way it's your responsibility to do justice to it. I've seen some beautiful, beautiful things here, but it's not an easy space to get right."
He first submitted his designs in early 2020, just as he was reading about how Wuhan, China -- a city of roughly 8.5 million people -- was shutting down because of Covid-19. He couldn't imagine that; it would be like New York City doing the same. Once that happened too, he began to see pop-up hospitals similar to the one he had conceived for "Doppelganger."
Now it has taken on an eerie resonance. Set vaguely in the first half of the 20th century, the production, with its rows and rows of beds, seems like a darkly familiar sight, especially to New Yorkers. And, Levine said, the isolation of a temporary hospital -- whether during a war, as in "Doppelganger," or somewhere like the Javits Center in the early days of the pandemic -- is supported, even amplified, by Schubert's music.
"There's something lonely about these songs," Levine said, "and there's something quite lonely about this space."
Kaufmann will be lightly amplified, but the concept of "Doppelganger" still relies on a performer with his immense presence, Audi said. "You need a personality like this," he added, "because he's alone onstage, and this is all taking place inside his head."
He won't be entirely alone. Among the beds will be dancers, who play the parts of fellow soldiers, as well as actors playing hospital workers. And Schubert's score will be joined by Mathis Nitschke's original music -- which joins the songs together, picking up the harmonic thread of one and transitioning to that of the next. (Deutsch also has a showcase in the form of an interlude pulled from a late Schubert piano sonata.)
All this is possible, Kaufmann said, because "Schwanengesang" isn't really a cycle. "We're allowed to do something different with it," he added, in a collaborative process among friends. "That's our privilege, that we can present our ideas in a new package."
Photograph The tenor Jonas Kaufmann, left, with the director Claus Guth, at the Park Avenue Armory. (C1); Jonas Kaufmann, left, and Claus Guth with a bust of Wade Thompson, the namesake of the Armory's Drill Hall, where "Doppelganger" will be staged. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) This article appeared in print on page C1, C7.

Subject: Design; Opera; Pandemics; Musical performances

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Park Avenue Armory; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/20/arts/music/doppelganger-armory-jonas-kaufmann-claus-guth.html

Title: Solo Sung In Isolation Fills Space With Life:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publicationyear: 2023

Publication date: Sep 21, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866624888

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/solo-sung-isolation-fills-space-with-life/docview/2866624888/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09 -21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Schubert at the Vast Park Avenue Armory: Intimate, Lonely, Exposed

Author: Barone, Joshua

Publication info: Barone, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/schubert-at-vast-park-avenue-armory-intimate/docview/2866631341/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MUNICH — In Schubert’s song “Der Doppelgänger,” a piano resounds with increasingly tormented chords as the narrator recounts a realization: that a pained stranger, wringing his hands in the night, is in fact himself.
“I think there is something like a moment where your soul steps out, and your body is there,” director Claus Guth said about the song over coffee in Munich. “It’s this shocking moment: You understand that you’re dying.”
That instant, he said, is the heart of “Schwanengesang,” the posthumous collection of Schubert’s final songs, which is often performed as a cycle, like the composer’s canonical “Die Schöne Müllerin” and “Winterreise.” And it’s that harrowing, transitional state that has inspired Guth’s staging of “Schwanengesang,” called “Doppelganger,” which premieres at the Park Avenue Armory in New York on Friday.
The production — featuring star tenor Jonas Kaufmann performing with his longtime collaborator, pianist Helmut Deutsch — will be the New York debut of Guth, one of the most sought-after opera directors in Europe.
Schubert’s music is regularly presented in the Armory’s intimate Board of Officers Room, the site of most of the arts center’s recitals. But the composer’s songs, like those of “Schwanengesang,” originally sung in parlors, are much less expected, and seemingly ill-suited, for the vast drill hall. But “Doppelganger” will unfold there amid an installation (designed by Michael Levine) of more than 60 hospital beds occupied by wounded soldiers. Kaufmann will rise from one of them, to think back on his life at the moment of his death.
The path to “Doppelganger” was long, and not just because the production, originally planned for fall 2020, was delayed by pandemic closures. Years ago, Pierre Audi, the Armory’s artistic director, approached Guth and Kaufmann about a music theater project for the drill hall, inspired by little more than their prestige and friendship, which goes back to their education at the Hochschule für Musik in Munich.
“I gave them carte blanche to propose something,” said Audi, one of the few dreamers in New York who can still commission work on the monumental scale of the Armory. Kaufmann said that he and Guth discussed music by Strauss, Mahler and Wagner, as well as Janacek’s frequently staged cycle “The Diary of One Who Disappeared.”
But the idea of mounting, say, Mahler’s “Kindertotenlieder” didn’t appeal to Guth. “If you have this huge orchestra, it will be the same structure you have at a normal concert,” he said. “So, how to get this very specific situation of not being in the opera house or concert hall? We thought it would be great to have in this huge hall just this lonely singer exposed.”
They arrived at the idea of a song recital. And from there, Guth said, “It must be Schubert.”
He researched the history of the Armory, and was struck as much by its use as a hospital and shelter as by its housing of a militia regiment. “It’s interesting to think of this place not as a drill hall, but the opposite,” he said.
Guth also thought about the “Schwanengesang” song “Kriegers Ahnung,” in which a soldier worries about dying in battle and longs for “how cheerful the fireside glow seemed when she lay in my arms.” “My storytelling is, say, the last hour of this wounded soldier,” Guth said. “And in this last hour you see his flashbacks and his dreams.”
Levine — a collaborator with Guth on a Metropolitan Opera-bound production of Janacek’s “Jenufa” — responded to that idea with a design incorporating a dreamily expansive field of hospital beds, in part as an attempt to rise to the drill hall’s size.
“You want to address the space itself,” he said on a recent afternoon at the Armory, gesturing to the set as it was being arranged. “It’s a thrilling space to put anything in, and in a way it’s your responsibility to do justice to it. I’ve seen some beautiful, beautiful things here, but it’s not an easy space to get right.”
He first submitted his designs in early 2020, just as he was reading about how Wuhan, China — a city of roughly 8.5 million people — was shutting down because of COVID-19. He couldn’t imagine that; it would be like New York City doing the same. Once that happened too, he began to see pop-up hospitals similar to the one he had conceived for “Doppelganger.”
Now it has taken on an eerie resonance. Set vaguely in the first half of the 20th century, the production, with its rows and rows of beds, seems like a darkly familiar sight, especially to New Yorkers. And, Levine said, the isolation of a temporary hospital — whether during a war, as in “Doppelganger,” or somewhere like the Javits Center in the early days of the pandemic — is supported, even amplified, by Schubert’s music.
“There’s something lonely about these songs,” Levine said, “and there’s something quite lonely about this space.”
Kaufmann will be lightly amplified, but the concept of “Doppelganger” still relies on a performer with his immense presence, Audi said. “You need a personality like this,” he added, “because he’s alone onstage, and this is all taking place inside his head.”
He won’t be entirely alone. Among the beds will be dancers, who play the parts of fellow soldiers, as well as actors playing hospital workers. And Schubert’s score will be joined by Mathis Nitschke’s original music — which joins the songs together, picking up the harmonic thread of one and transitioning to that of the next. (Deutsch also has a showcase in the form of an interlude pulled from a late Schubert piano sonata.)
All this is possible, Kaufmann said, because “Schwanengesang” isn’t really a cycle. “We’re allowed to do something different with it,” he added, in a collaborative process among friends. “That’s our privilege, that we can present our ideas in a new package.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Design; Opera; Musical performances; Pandemics

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Park Avenue Armory; NAICS: 712110

Identifier / keyword: Arts; New York City; Entertainment; Park Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Kaufmann, Jonas; Shutdowns (Institutional); Opera; Schubert, Franz; Strauss, Richard; Loneliness; Janacek, Leos; Munich (Germany); Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (Manhattan, Ny); Park Avenue Armory (Manhattan, Ny); Europe; Guth, Claus; Quarantines; Wuhan (China); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Metropolitan Opera; Music; Audi, Pierre; Mahler, Gustav; Deutsch, Helmut; Classical Music; China

Title: Schubert at the Vast Park Avenue Armory: Intimate, Lonely, Exposed

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-20T19:01:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866631341

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/schubert-at-vast-park-avenue-armory-intimate/docview/2866631341/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

UAW Strike Looms Over Detroit Auto Show

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uaw-strike-looms-over-detroit-auto-show/docview/2864842575/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DETROIT — The Detroit auto show kicked off this week with a burst of hoopla and glam, including a Darius Rucker concert sponsored by Ford Motor and an indoor test track built by Jeep that features a hill with a 40-degree slope.
But beyond the excitement and bright lights, Detroit’s annual auto show has been clouded by foreboding and dread. The three established U.S. automakers, the anchors of the show, are locked in difficult contract negotiations with the labor union that represents nearly 150,000 of their employees.
Even as automakers sought to drum up excitement about new versions of popular vehicles such as the Ford F-150 pickup truck and the GMC Acadia SUV to journalists, analysts and dealers, labor negotiators were racing to avoid a strike by the United Auto Workers that could make it impossible for those new models to find their way to showrooms. Despite those efforts, the union called a strike at three factories starting Friday.
The three automakers based in the Detroit area — General Motors, Ford and Stellantis, which owns Jeep, Chrysler and Ram — are entangled in their greatest labor crisis in more than a decade even as they seek to display their best and brightest new models.
“You can feel it,” said Matt DeLorenzo, an independent auto analyst and author. “The executives I’ve talked to, you can see they’re concerned. I don’t see a lot of optimism that it’s going to be resolved fairly quickly.”
The UAW and its new president, Shawn Fain, are seeking a 40% increase in wages over the next four years. The union has also demanded pension improvements, a shorter workweek, company-paid health care for retirees and an end to a wage system in which new hires start at about half the top union wage of $32 an hour.
The automakers, which have been making near-record profits for the past several years, have countered with wage increases about half of what the union is seeking, while rejecting most of the UAW’s other demands.
There were few direct references to the UAW talks at the show, which will open its doors to the general public Saturday. But a prolonged strike would almost certainly jeopardize the automakers’ plans to roll out new cars and trucks to take advantage of still strong demand.
The auto industry has spent much of the past three years struggling to produce enough vehicles because of pandemic shutdowns and supply chain chaos. The inventory of new cars remains very low by historical standards, and prices are quite high, helping to raise profits.
If striking workers slow or stop production lines for many weeks or several months, customers looking for new cars will increasingly turn to foreign automakers or Tesla, the Texas-based producer of electric vehicles that is growing fast. Those other automakers operate U.S. plants that use nonunion workers and their production is unlikely to be affected directly by the strikes.
The Detroit show, officially the North American International Auto Show, was once one of the premier auto expositions in the world. The top executives from all major automakers, including those not based in Michigan, attended. Celebrities and musicians were often hired to add sizzle.
But several years ago, attendance began declining at auto shows around the world, and the Detroit organizers tried to refashion theirs, moving it from January to the summer. But the COVID-19 pandemic forced it to shut down completely. The show returned last year, but was sparsely attended, and many foreign automakers didn’t bother to participate.
This year the no-shows include Honda, BMW, Volkswagen, Audi and Mercedes-Benz, but the show has added new attractions. A test track for electric vehicles has a 300-foot straightaway where visitors — riding in the passenger seat with a trained driver at the wheel — can get a sense of the exhilarating acceleration of seven models, including the electric Ford F-150 Lightning pickup and the Cadillac Lyriq, an electric SUV.
A startup company, Alef Aeronautics, put on display a concept for what it hopes will someday become a flying car that can “hop” over hills, or even traffic jams.
To highlight the off-road abilities of its vehicles, Stellantis’ Jeep division created a stand out of 50 pine trees, 30 tons of boulders and 40 cubic yards of dirt. There, amid the faux wilderness, Jeep introduced a new version of its Gladiator pickup.
“Even after 100 years, this city is still a home for innovating visionaries, designers, builders and adventure-seekers,” Jim Morrison, a Stellantis senior vice president and head of the Jeep brand in North America, said during a presentation Wednesday.
Hours later, Stellantis issued a statement saying it was still awaiting the UAW’s response to the company’s latest wage offer.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile shows; Strikes; Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Shutdowns; Automobile industry; Contract negotiations; Labor unions

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Shutdowns Automobile industry Contract negotiations Labor unions

Location: New York; United States--US; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: North American International Auto Show; NAICS: 561920; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Honda Motor Co Ltd; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; United Automobile Workers; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Mercedes Benz; Volkswagen Ag; Boudette, Neal E; Labor And Jobs; Stellantis Nv; North American International Auto Show; Roads And Traffic; Start Ups; Disease Rates; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Hiring And Promotion; General Motors; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus (2019 Nco v); Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Rucker, Darius; Texas; Wages And Salaries; Michigan; Music; Organized Labor; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Detroit (Mich); Fain, Shawn; Facebook Inc; Cadillac Division Of General Motors Corp; Flying Cars; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; North America; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Ram Division Of Chrysler Corp; Supply Chain; Business

Title: UAW Strike Looms Over Detroit Auto Show

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 15, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-15T03:15:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2864842575

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uaw-strike-looms-over-detroit-auto-show/docview/2864842575/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New Yo rk Times Company Sep 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Strike Threat Is Shadowing Auto Show: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/strike-threat-is-shadowing-auto-show/docview/2864772167/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The three established U.S. automakers could struggle to get new cars and trucks to dealerships and customers if the walkouts drag on.
The Detroit auto show kicked off this week with a burst of hoopla and glam, including a Darius Rucker concert sponsored by Ford Motor and an indoor test track built by Jeep that features a hill with a 40-degree slope.
But beyond the excitement and bright lights, Detroit's annual auto show has been clouded by foreboding and dread. The three established U.S. automakers, the anchors of the show, are locked in difficult contract negotiations with the labor union that represents nearly 150,000 of their employees.
Even as automakers sought to drum up excitement about new versions of popular vehicles like the Ford F-150 pickup truck and the GMC Acadia sport utility vehicle to journalists, analysts and dealers, labor negotiators were racing to avoid a strike by the United Auto Workers that could make it impossible for those new models to find their way to showrooms. Despite those efforts, the union called a strike at three factories starting Friday.
The three automakers based in the Detroit area -- General Motors, Ford and Stellantis, which owns Jeep, Chrysler and Ram -- are entangled in their greatest labor crisis in more than a decade even as they seek to display their best and brightest new models.
"You can feel it," said Matt DeLorenzo, an independent auto analyst and author. "The executives I've talked to, you can see they're concerned. I don't see a lot of optimism that it's going to be resolved fairly quickly."
The U.A.W. and its new president, Shawn Fain, are seeking a 40 percent increase in wages over the next four years. The union has also demanded pension improvements, a shorter workweek, company-paid health care for retirees and an end to a wage system in which new hires start at about half the top union wage of $ 32 an hour.
The automakers, which have been making near-record profits for the last several years, have countered with wage increases about half of what the union is seeking, while rejecting most of the U.A.W.'s other demands.
There were few direct references to the U.A.W. talks at the show, which will open its doors to the general public on Saturday. But a prolonged strike would almost certainly jeopardize the automakers' plans to roll out new cars and trucks to take advantage of still strong demand.
The auto industry has spent much of the last three years struggling to produce enough vehicles because of pandemic shutdowns and supply chain chaos. The inventory of new cars remains very low by historical standards, and prices are quite high, helping to raise profits.
If striking workers slow or stop production lines for many weeks or several months, customers looking for new cars will increasingly turn to foreign automakers or Tesla, the Texas-based producer of electric vehicles that is growing fast. Those other automakers operate U.S. plants that use nonunion workers and their production is unlikely to be affected directly by the strike.
The Detroit show, officially the North American International Auto Show, was once one of the premier auto expositions in the world. The top executives from all major automakers, including those not based in Michigan, attended. Celebrities and musicians were often hired to add sizzle.
But several years ago, attendance began declining at auto shows around the world, and the Detroit organizers tried to refashion theirs, moving it from January to the summer. But the Covid-19 pandemic forced it to shut down completely. The show returned last year, but was sparsely attended, and many foreign automakers didn't bother to participate.
This year the no-shows include Honda, BMW, Volkswagen, Audi and Mercedes-Benz, but the show has added new attractions. A test track for electric vehicles has a 300-foot straightaway where visitors -- riding in the passenger seat with a trained driver at the wheel -- can get a sense of the exhilarating acceleration of seven models, including the electric Ford F-150 Lightning pickup and the Cadillac Lyriq, an electric S.U.V.
A start-up company, Alef Aeronautics, put on display a concept for what it hopes will someday become a flying car that can "hop" over hills, or even traffic jams.
To highlight the off-road abilities of its vehicles, Stellantis's Jeep division created a stand out of 50 pine trees, 30 tons of boulders and 40 cubic yards of dirt. There, amid the faux wilderness, Jeep introduced a new version of its Gladiator pickup.
"Even after 100 years, this city is still a home for innovating visionaries, designers, builders and adventure-seekers," said Jim Morrison, a Stellantis senior vice president and head of the Jeep brand in North America, during a presentation on Wednesday.
Hours later, Stellantis issued a statement saying it was still awaiting the U.A.W.'s response to the company's latest wage offer.
Photograph Checking out a 2024 Ford F-150 Platinum at the auto show. Ford plans to double production of its gas-electric hybrid version of the F-150.; A Ford Raptor climbed the Ford Adventure demonstration on Wednesday at the Detroit auto show, above. General Motors presented a new version of the large S.U.V. Acadia, left. Many foreign automakers skipped the show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRITTANY GREESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Automobile shows; Strikes; Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Trucks; Shutdowns; Automobile industry; Contract negotiations; Labor unions; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Shutdowns Automobile industry Contract negotiations Labor unions Automobile dealers

Location: Unit ed States--US; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/14/business/uaw-strike-detroit-auto-show.html

Title: Strike Threat Is Shadowing Auto Show:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2864772167

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/strike-threat-is-shadowing-auto-show/docview/2864772167/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

UAW Strike Looms Over Detroit Auto Show

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uaw-strike-looms-over-detroit-auto-show/docview/2864690170/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DETROIT — The Detroit auto show kicked off this week with a burst of hoopla and glam, including a Darius Rucker concert sponsored by Ford Motor and an indoor test track built by Jeep that features a hill with a 40-degree slope.
But beyond the excitement and bright lights, Detroit’s annual auto show has been clouded by foreboding and dread. The three established U.S. automakers, the anchors of the show, are locked in difficult contract negotiations with the labor union that represents nearly 150,000 of their employees.
Even as automakers sought to drum up excitement about new versions of popular vehicles such as the Ford F-150 pickup truck and the GMC Acadia SUV to journalists, analysts and dealers, labor negotiators were racing to avoid a strike by the United Auto Workers that could make it impossible for those new models to make their way to showrooms.
The three automakers based in the Detroit area — General Motors, Ford and Stellantis, which owns Jeep, Chrysler and Ram — are entangled in their greatest labor crisis in more than a decade even as they seek to display their best and brightest new models.
“You can feel it,” said Matt DeLorenzo, an independent auto analyst and author. “The executives I’ve talked to, you can see they’re concerned. I don’t see a lot of optimism that it’s going to be resolved fairly quickly.”
The UAW and its new president, Shawn Fain, are seeking a 40% increase in wages over the next four years. The union has also demanded pension improvements, a shorter workweek, company-paid health care for retirees and an end to a wage system in which new hires start at about half the top union wage of $32 an hour.
The automakers, which have been making near-record profits for the past several years, have countered with wage increases about half of what the union is seeking, while rejecting most of the UAW’s other demands.
“We’re seeing movement from the companies, but they’re still not willing to agree to the kinds of raises that will make up for inflation on top of decades of falling wages,” Fain said Wednesday evening in a video on Facebook.
He added that workers at all three companies were prepared to strike and stay away from their factory stations as long as it took to win big gains. The UAW has never struck the three companies simultaneously before.
There were few direct references to the UAW talks at the show, which will open its doors to the general public Saturday. But a prolonged strike will almost certainly jeopardize the automakers’ plans to roll out new cars and trucks to take advantage of still strong demand.
The auto industry has spent much of the past three years struggling to produce enough vehicles because of pandemic shutdowns and supply chain chaos. The inventory of new cars remains very low by historical standards, and prices are quite high, helping to raise profits.
If striking workers slow or stop production lines for many weeks or several months, customers looking for new cars will increasingly turn to foreign automakers or Tesla, the Texas-based producer of electric vehicles that is growing fast. Those other automakers operate U.S. plants that use nonunion workers and their production is unlikely to be affected directly by the strikes.
The Detroit show, officially the North American International Auto Show, was once one of the premier auto expositions in the world. The top executives from all major automakers, including those not based in Michigan, attended. Celebrities and musicians were often hired to add sizzle.
But several years ago, attendance began declining at auto shows around the world, and the Detroit organizers tried to refashion theirs, moving it from January to the summer. But the COVID-19 pandemic forced it to shut down completely. The show returned last year, but was sparsely attended, and many foreign automakers didn’t bother to participate.
This year the no-shows include Honda, BMW, Volkswagen, Audi and Mercedes-Benz, but the show has added new attractions. A test track for electric vehicles has a 300-foot straightaway where visitors — riding in the passenger seat with a trained driver at the wheel — can get a sense of the exhilarating acceleration of seven models, including the electric Ford F-150 Lightning pickup and the Cadillac Lyriq, an electric SUV.
A startup company, Alef Aeronautics, put on display a concept for what it hopes will someday become a flying car that can “hop” over hills, or even traffic jams.
To highlight the off-road abilities of its vehicles, Stellantis’ Jeep division created a stand out of 50 pine trees, 30 tons of boulders and 40 cubic yards of dirt. There, amid the faux wilderness, Jeep introduced a new version of its Gladiator pickup.
“Even after 100 years, this city is still a home for innovating visionaries, designers, builders and adventure-seekers,” Jim Morrison, a Stellantis senior vice president and head of the Jeep brand in North America, said during a presentation Wednesday.
Hours later, Stellantis issued a statement saying it was still awaiting the UAW’s response to the company’s latest wage offer, and hoped to have a deal that would avert a strike.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile shows; Strikes; Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Shutdowns; Automobile industry; Contract negotiations; Labor unions; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Shutdowns Automobile industry Contract negotiations Labor unions Wages & salaries

Location: New York; United States--US; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: North American International Auto Show; NAICS: 561920; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Honda Motor Co Ltd; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; United Automobile Workers; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Mercedes Benz; Volkswagen Ag; Boudette, Neal E; Labor And Jobs; Stellantis Nv; North American International Auto Show; Roads And Traffic; Start Ups; Disease Rates; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Hiring And Pr omotion; General Motors; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Rucker, Darius; Texas; Wages And Salaries; Michigan; Music; Organized Labor; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Detroit (Mich); Fain, Shawn; Facebook Inc; Cadillac Division Of General Motors Corp; Flying Cars; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; North America; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Ram Division Of Chrysler Corp; Supply Chain; Business

Title: UAW Strike Looms Over Detroit Auto Show

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 14, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-14T21:48:51Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2864690170

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uaw-strike-looms-over-detroit-auto-show/docview/2864690170/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Looted Artifacts Returned to Lebanon: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Mashberg, Tom

Publication info: Mashberg, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looted-artifacts-returned-lebanon/docview/2862589895/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some of the pieces were seized from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and others from the New Jersey storage unit of a Lebanese collector and dealer.
New York and federal authorities handed back 12 looted antiquities valued at $ 9 million to Lebanon on Thursday, including three objects removed from the Metropolitan Museum of Art last year during a flurry of multimillion-dollar seizures there.
Taken from the museum were twin marble statuettes of the Greek mythological figures Castor and Pollux, valued at $ 800,000, and a bronze sculpture on loan to the Met from Shelby White, an art patron and museum trustee, which depicts a nude male worshiper and is valued by authorities at $ 1.2 million.
The three items were seized as part of an investigation by the Manhattan district attorney's office into several international smuggling rings. The investigation last year led to the seizure of another 27 ancient artifacts valued at $ 13 million from the Met. The seizure of the three Met items returned on Thursday had not been previously disclosed by investigators.
In a statement, museum officials said, "Each of these objects has unique and complex circumstances, and with all, The Metropolitan Museum of Art has been fully supportive of the Manhattan district attorney's office investigations."
The other nine items repatriated during a ceremony in New York on Thursday were mosaics from the third through fifth centuries, when Rome ruled the Mediterranean region that includes what is now known as Lebanon. Investigators valued the mosaics at $ 7 million.
The mosaics, which depict gods, gladiators and mythical beasts, were seized along with 15 other objects in 2021 from a New Jersey storage unit by officials from U.S. Homeland Security Investigations and the district attorney's office. The unit was rented by Georges Lotfi, 82, a retired Lebanese-born pharmaceutical executive and sometime New York resident who collected and dealt in art.
At the time, law enforcement officials said Mr. Lotfi had helped them by occasionally providing information that aided antiquities-smuggling investigations over the years. For example, they said, his information helped identify the network that stole an important Egyptian relic, "Nedjemankh and His Gilded Coffin," which the Met had acquired for $ 4 million in 2017 but was forced to send back to Egypt in 2019.
But by 2022, investigators said, their relations with Mr. Lotfi had soured. They said he refused to give up ownership of the items taken from his storage unit, insisting he had acquired and imported them legally. In response, prosecutors last August issued an arrest warrant charging Mr. Lotfi, who was living in Lebanon, with 24 counts of criminal possession of stolen property.
Mr. Lotfi, in interviews and social media postings, has ardently proclaimed his innocence. "I was fighting with them for 10 years to stop illicit trading, and they turned against me," he told The Times last year.
In the warrant, prosecutors from the district attorney's Antiquities Trafficking Unit said Mr. Lotfi had overstepped when he expressly invited them in 2021 to inspect the storage unit in Jersey City. Investigators said they suspected Mr. Lotfi was showing them the contents as a ruse to get them to grant the objects a stamp of approval.
Investigators grew suspicious, however, when they saw that many of Mr. Lotfi's warehoused items were encrusted with dirt -- a sign, they said, that the objects had been illegally dug up. They added that Mr. Lotfi had no export licenses.
Matthew Bogdanos, chief of the trafficking unit, said on Thursday that Mr. Lotfi is in Tripoli, Lebanon, and is being monitored by the Lebanese authorities. He said Mr. Lotfi's passport was confiscated after Interpol put out a fugitive alert, known as a Red Notice, for his arrest in May.
In an online posting last year, Mr. Lotfi said all his items "were bought from licensed traders" and legally imported. He described himself as a longtime collector who has rescued objects that might otherwise have been destroyed during his country's civil war.
At the ceremony on Thursday, officials painted a different picture.
"These pieces sat in apartments, storage units and museums when they should have been in Lebanon," the Manhattan district attorney, Alvin L. Bragg Jr., said.
Lebanon's consul general in New York, Abir Taha Audi, said in an interview that the theft of cultural objects like the mosaics had been "a plague" on her nation since its civil war years, from 1975 to 1990.
"When you steal a nation's cultural heritage, you are stealing its memory, its history and its identity," she said.
Photograph Among the seized objects, mosaics from the third to fifth centuries, above left, and twin statuettes of Castor and Pollux, above right. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA THE MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE) This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Historic artifacts; Looting; 5th century; Criminal investigations; Smuggling; District attorneys; Arrest warrants; Cultural heritage

Location: New York; Lebanon; United States--US; New Jersey

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/07/arts/looted-artifacts-lebanon.html

Title: Looted Artifacts Returned to Lebanon:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 9, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862589895

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looted-artifacts-returned-lebanon/docview/2862589895/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Engulfs His Listeners In Sound: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Barone, Joshua

Publication info: Barone, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-engulfs-his-listeners-sound/docview/2852900828/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Maxime Pascal, a latecomer to classical music, forged an unusual path to the podium that has paid off for him and for audiences.
Growing up, the conductor Maxime Pascal was a self-identified musical dilettante.
As a child in the south of France, he had some skill on the violin, and sat in on the piano lessons his mother taught. At night, he watched his father play New Orleans jazz. But he didn't really listen to classical music until he was 18.
Now, though, Pascal, 37, is arguably his generation's finest conductor of 20th-century music, as well as an essential interpreter of contemporary works. And his schedule reflects both the breadth of his ambition and the respect he has garnered on some of the industry's most prestigious stages.
He is "a fascinating artist who understands the times we live in and the role music theater can have on injecting new life in opera," said Pierre Audi, the artistic director of the Aix-en-Provence Festival in France. Pascal spent July at the festival leading his ensemble, Le Balcon, and performers from the Comédie-Française in Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht's "The Threepenny Opera," in a slightly altered though polarizing orchestration of his own design.
This month, Pascal is at the podium of the Vienna Philharmonic for the Martinu rarity "The Greek Passion" at the Salzburg Festival in Austria. And in November, in Paris, Pascal and Le Balcon will continue what he said has become his "life's work" as they mount "Sonntag aus Licht," their fifth installment in Stockhausen's immense, seven-opera, 29-hour "Licht" -- with an eye toward staging the entire cycle during the composer's centennial year in 2028.
Through it all, Pascal has emerged not only as a conductor of specialized repertoire, but also as a fundamentally persuasive musical communicator. His gestures can seem excessively physical; he takes his bows looking as if he had just fallen into a pool. Yet they don't have the performative drama of, say, Leonard Bernstein.
"The audience understands immediately if a gesture is honest or if it's fake," said Markus Hinterhäuser, the artistic director of the Salzburg Festival, who has made Pascal a regular guest there. "More interesting is honesty. That's Maxime. In his gesture you get an immediate understanding of what's going on."
If there's an honesty to Pascal's podium manner, it was cultivated unconsciously during his childhood. In retrospect, he said in an interview between performances of "Threepenny" last month, his entire upbringing and musical education funneled into his understanding of conducting today.
He was born in Carcassonne, between Toulouse and Montpelier. Even if he wasn't immersed in classical music, he was surrounded by sound sensations, he said, that he still feels. There was the brassy timbre of his father's trombone, whether playing onstage or along with concerts on television. The first film he saw in theaters was "Aladdin," and he was overwhelmed by being engulfed in the vivid images and songs.
There was also the first time Pascal played in an orchestra, an experience that was practically epiphanic. "You realize you are part of a very high-level process that has existed since a very long time," he said. "Musically, of course, and artistically, but also socially. If you want to know what the other child over there is playing, you have to listen. It's something really strong."
So, when the time came to pick a path for his education, Pascal chose music, eventually making his way to the Paris Conservatory. Quickly realizing how much of a comparative head start his fellow students had, he devoted himself to catching up. From the media library he would check out six recordings a day, following no real agenda. "I discovered everything at the same time," he said: the standard repertoire alongside the works of Morton Feldman, Gérard Grisey and Pierre Boulez.
Pascal has a similar headlong approach today. He and Le Balcon don't repeat programs, so he is constantly learning new scores. In a sense, he has never stopped catching up. "Doing that," he said, "you will keep a child's curiosity forever. You will be marveling at small details until the end of your life."
As he attended shows, he wasn't always satisfied with what he heard. At his first live experience with Boulez's "Le Marteau Sans Maître," he was so affected and stunned, he could barely applaud. But at some performances, he said, he felt "a bit too far from the sound and the work." He wondered what would happen if he put on a concert that was entirely amplified.
In 2008, with a small group of composers, a sound designer and volunteer musicians, Pascal put on a program of student works and Ravel songs performed by the soprano Julie Fuchs. When he heard the amplification -- meticulously arranged and balanced -- he snapped his fingers and said, "That's it."
"I was no longer just watching and listening to something," Pascal said. "I was inside the sound." It felt like watching "Aladdin" all over again.
They continued to put on performances, calling their ensemble Le Balcon, inspired by Genet's play of the same name. The decision felt spontaneous at the time, Pascal said, but "we realized this text could be our manifesto. It talks about representation and what it means to incarnate."
At the time, Pascal was familiar with Stockhausen's music but didn't yet know how similar the composer's aims were to his, particularly in the completely amplified sound world of "Licht." The cycle has been performed piecemeal over the years, especially as it was being written, from the late 1970s to the early 2000s. But no company or artist had taken on the entire work before Le Balcon. (In 2019, Audi presented a three-day abridgment at the Holland Festival called "Aus Licht.")
Repeating the "Licht" operas in 2028 would be something of a first for Le Balcon. The ensemble constantly explores new repertoire, Pascal said, because "the idea from the start was to always do something that would surprise us, to discover new things." Some of those moves have been driven by Audi and Hinterhäuser.
Audi asked Pascal to conduct this summer's "Threepenny" in part because of his talent with 20th-century works, but also because he is "always searching for an honest space for rethinking and reinvention." Weill was new to Pascal, but, Audi said, "he plunged into it and emerged with a triumphant, refreshing and highly convincing result." (A recording on the Alpha Classicals label is due for release in September.)
In Salzburg, Pascal's musical terrain has been vast: Debussy and Stravinsky, Grisey and Stockhausen, last year the large-scale "Jeanne d'Arc au Bûcher" of Honegger and the harrowingly intimate "Jakub Lenz" of Wolfgang Rihm. "The Greek Passion" is his first appearance with the Vienna Philharmonic, a risky debut for any conductor. But, Hinterhäuser said, "the response is very beautiful" in rehearsals.
Critics have received "Passion," which opened on Sunday and continues through Aug. 27, well. Pascal was praised especially for his handling of the stylistically eclectic, unwieldy score. "Sometimes it sounds archaic, sometimes modern, sometimes lyrical, then again passionate," Meret Forster wrote in BR Klassik. "That all these facets can be heard and understood in Salzburg is mainly because of Maxime Pascal."
If he has one detracting critic, it's himself. Pascal said he has spent years learning to be happy with his performances. "For a long time, it was really, crazily bad," he added. "It happens still: People are saying it was fantastic, the orchestra is applauding, but I think it was so bad."
Whether with Le Balcon or a new orchestra like the Vienna Philharmonic, Pascal is striving to realize the ideal performance in his mind but also aiming for simple satisfaction. "It can be very difficult to accept, as an artist, that everything you will do is only a picture of what you are at that moment," he said. "You may never reach what you are searching for, but you are always approaching it."
Photograph Maxime Pascal specializes in 20th-century and contemporary works. (C1); Maxime Pascal and his ensemble, Le Balcon, will mount "Sonntag aus Licht," their fifth installment in Stockhausen's seven-opera, 29-hour "Licht," in Paris in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FREDRIK BRODEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Artistic directors; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Classical music; Repertoire; Festivals; Sound design

Location: France

Company / organization: Name: Vienna Philharmonic; NAICS: 711130; Name: Salzburg Festival; NAICS: 711320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/16/arts/music/maxime-pascal-le-balcon.html

Title: He Engulfs His Listeners In Sound:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 19, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852900828

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-engulfs-his-listeners-sound/docview/2852900828/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Conductor Who Wants to Put You ‘Inside the Sound’

Author: Barone, Joshua

Publication info: Barone, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/conductor-who-wants-put-you-inside-sound/docview/2852831978/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
AIX-EN-PROVENCE, France — Growing up, conductor Maxime Pascal was a self-identified musical dilettante.
As a child in the south of France, he had some skill on the violin, and sat in on the piano lessons his mother taught. At night, he watched his father play New Orleans jazz. But he didn’t really listen to classical music until he was 18.
Now, though, Pascal, 37, is arguably his generation’s finest conductor of 20th-century music, as well as an essential interpreter of contemporary works. And his schedule reflects both the breadth of his ambition and the respect he has garnered on some of the industry’s most prestigious stages.
He is “a fascinating artist who understands the times we live in and the role music theater can have on injecting new life in opera,” said Pierre Audi, artistic director of the Aix-en-Provence Festival in France. Pascal spent July at the festival leading his ensemble, Le Balcon, and performers from the Comédie-Française in Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht’s “The Threepenny Opera,” in a slightly altered though polarizing orchestration of his own design.
This month, Pascal is at the podium of the Vienna Philharmonic for the Bohuslav Martinu rarity “The Greek Passion” at the Salzburg Festival in Austria. And in November, in Paris, Pascal and Le Balcon will continue what he said has become his “life’s work” as they mount “Sonntag aus Licht,” their fifth installment in Karlheinz Stockhausen’s immense, seven-opera, 29-hour “Licht” — with an eye toward staging the entire cycle during the composer’s centennial year in 2028.
Through it all, Pascal has emerged not only as a conductor of specialized repertoire, but also as a fundamentally persuasive musical communicator. His gestures can seem excessively physical; he takes his bows looking as if he had just fallen into a pool. Yet they don’t have the performative drama of, say, Leonard Bernstein.
“The audience understands immediately if a gesture is honest or if it’s fake,” said Markus Hinterhäuser, the artistic director of the Salzburg Festival, who has made Pascal a regular guest there. “More interesting is honesty. That’s Maxime. In his gesture you get an immediate understanding of what’s going on.”
If there’s an honesty to Pascal’s podium manner, it was cultivated unconsciously during his childhood. In retrospect, he said in an interview between performances of “Threepenny” last month, his entire upbringing and musical education funneled into his understanding of conducting today.
He was born in Carcassonne, between Toulouse and Montpelier. Even if he wasn’t immersed in classical music, he was surrounded by sound sensations, he said, that he still feels. There was the brassy timbre of his father’s trombone, whether playing onstage or along with concerts on television. The first film he saw in theaters was “Aladdin,” and he was overwhelmed by being engulfed in the vivid images and songs.
There was also the first time Pascal played in an orchestra, an experience that was practically epiphanic. “You realize you are part of a very high-level process that has existed since a very long time,” he said. “Musically, of course, and artistically, but also socially. If you want to know what the other child over there is playing, you have to listen . It’s something really strong.”
So, when the time came to pick a path for his education, Pascal chose music, eventually making his way to the Paris Conservatory. Quickly realizing how much of a comparative head start his fellow students had, he devoted himself to catching up. From the media library he would check out six recordings a day, following no real agenda. “I discovered everything at the same time,” he said: the standard repertoire alongside the works of Morton Feldman, Gérard Grisey and Pierre Boulez.
Pascal has a similar headlong approach today. He and Le Balcon don’t repeat programs, so he is constantly learning new scores. In a sense, he has never stopped catching up. “Doing that,” he said, “you will keep a child’s curiosity forever. You will be marveling at small details until the end of your life.”
As he attended shows, he wasn’t always satisfied with what he heard. At his first live experience with Boulez’s “Le Marteau Sans Maître,” he was so affected and stunned, he could barely applaud. But at some performances, he said, he felt “a bit too far from the sound and the work.” He wondered what would happen if he put on a concert that was entirely amplified.
In 2008, with a small group of composers, a sound designer and volunteer musicians, Pascal put on a program of student works and Maurice Ravel songs performed by soprano Julie Fuchs. When he heard the amplification — meticulously arranged and balanced — he snapped his fingers and said, “That’s it.”
“I was no longer just watching and listening to something,” Pascal said. “I was inside the sound.” It felt like watching “Aladdin” all over again.
They continued to put on performances, calling their ensemble Le Balcon, inspired by Jean Genet’s play of the same name. The decision felt spontaneous at the time, Pascal said, but “we realized this text could be our manifesto. It talks about representation and what it means to incarnate.”
At the time, Pascal was familiar with Stockhausen’s music but didn’t yet know how similar the composer’s aims were to his, particularly in the completely amplified sound world of “Licht.” The cycle has been performed piecemeal over the years, especially as it was being written, from the late 1970s to the early 2000s. But no company or artist had taken on the entire work before Le Balcon. (In 2019, Audi presented a three-day abridgment at the Holland Festival called “Aus Licht.”)
Repeating the “Licht” operas in 2028 would be something of a first for Le Balcon. The ensemble constantly explores new repertoire, Pascal said, because “the idea from the start was to always do something that would surprise us, to discover new things.” Some of those moves have been driven by Audi and Hinterhäuser.
Audi asked Pascal to conduct this summer’s “Threepenny” in part because of his talent with 20th-century works, but also because he is “always searching for an honest space for rethinking and reinvention.” Weill was new to Pascal, but, Audi said, “he plunged into it and emerged with a triumphant, refreshing and highly convincing result.” (A recording on the Alpha Classicals label is due for release in September.)
In Salzburg, Pascal’s musical terrain has been vast: Claude Debussy and Igor Stravinsky, Grisey and Stockhausen, last year the large-scale “Jeanne d’Arc au Bûcher” of Arthur Honegger and the harrowingly intimate “Jakub Lenz” of Wolfgang Rihm. “The Greek Passion” is his first appearance with the Vienna Philharmonic, a risky debut for any conductor. But, Hinterhäuser said, “the response is very beautiful” in rehearsals.
Critics have received “Passion,” which opened Sunday and continues through Aug. 27, well. Pascal was praised especially for his handling of the stylistically eclectic, unwieldy score. “Sometimes it sounds archaic, sometimes modern, sometimes lyrical, then again passionate,” Meret Forster wrote in BR Klassik. “That all these facets can be heard and understood in Salzburg is mainly because of Maxime Pascal.”
If he has one detracting critic, it’s himself. Pascal said he has spent years learning to be happy with his performances. “For a long time, it was really, crazily bad,” he added. “It happens still: People are saying it was fantastic, the orchestra is applauding, but I think it was so bad.”
Whether with Le Balcon or a new orchestra like the Vienna Philharmonic, Pascal is striving to realize the ideal performance in his mind but also aiming for simple satisfaction. “It can be very difficult to accept, as an artist, that everything you will do is only a picture of what you are at that moment,” he said. “You may never reach what you are searching for, but you are always approaching it.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Artistic directors; Musicians & conductors; Classical music; Musical performances; Sound design; Festivals; Repertoire

Location: New York; United States--US; France

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Vienna Philharmonic; NAICS: 711130; Name: Salzburg Festival; NAICS: 711320

Identifier / keyword: Martinu, Bohuslav; Brecht, Bertolt; Musical Instruments; Boulez, Pierre; Two Thousands (Decade); Ears And Hearing; Opera; France; Austria; Carcassonne (France); Arts; Vienna Philharmonic; Entertainment; Toulouse (France); Ravel, Maurice Joseph; Culture (Arts); Salzburg Festival; Genet, Jean; Aix En Provence (France); Music; Senses And Sensation; Rihm, Wolfgang; Stravinsky, Igor; Paris (France); Weill, Kurt; Feldman, Morton; Audi, Pierre; Salzburg (Austria); Stockhausen, Karlheinz; Honegger, Arthur; Aix En Provence Festival; Pascal, Maxime (1985 ); New Orleans (La); Aladdin (Play); Bernstein, Leonard; Le Balcon (Music Group); Debussy, Claude

Title: A Conductor Who Wants to Put You ‘Inside the Sound’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 18, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-18T22:48:06Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852831978

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/conductor-who-wants-put-you-inside-sound/docview/2852831978/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Volkswagen Seeks Edge In the Chinese Market: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/volkswagen-seeks-edge-chinese-market/docview/2842746919/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The News
Volkswagen, Europe's largest automaker, is scaling back its forecast for deliveries in 2023 as it grapples with lagging sales of its electric vehicles, but the company said on Thursday that it hoped to bolster its position in China through increased collaboration with local technology companies.
Financial targets for the year remain unchanged, the company said in its half-yearly financial report, but it expects deliveries of between nine million and 9.5 million vehicles for the year, widening the range from the 9.5 million previously forecast.
For decades, Volkswagen was the leading automaker in the Chinese market, which contributed nearly half of its earnings. But failure to understand Chinese customers' appetite for electric vehicles has cost the German carmaker market share, and deliveries in China fell for the first half of the year.
Shares fell more than 3 percent on Thursday.
The Numbers
Volkswagen said its after-tax earnings in the first half of the year fell 20 percent from a year earlier, to 8.5 billion euros, or $ 9.45 billion. But overall revenue increased 18.2 percent as the company stemmed some of its losses in China, where deliveries were down 1.2 percent.
Western Europe provided the company with its strongest business, with 1.65 million vehicles ordered in the first half of the year, and 200,000 of them -- or 12 percent -- were electric, the company said. It expects shorter waits by the second half of the year, when constraints on supplies and transport as well as logistics tangles will ease.
The company also confirmed that it had sold its Russia operations, including a manufacturing plant, for €125 million. The sale of Volkswagen Group Rus to Avilon, a Moscow-based dealership, was announced in May.
The China Strategy
As part of an effort to claw back ground lost in the Chinese market, Volkswagen said on Wednesday that it would invest $ 700 million for a nearly 5 percent stake in XPeng, a Chinese start-up that makes electric vehicles.
Last year, the Chinese automaker BYD overtook Volkswagen as the leading brand in the country. BYD widened the gap in the second quarter of the year, selling more than 595,000 hybrid or fully electric models, compared with 544,000 vehicles sold by Volkswagen, only 23,400 of them electric.
Volkswagen hopes that its investment in XPeng will help advance the German automaker's electric vehicle software to the standards produced by Chinese manufacturers. Analysts say German companies have yet to match the technological advancements in phones, homes and vehicles as well as in-car entertainment that drivers in China expect.
The company also said its Audi division would expand its relationship with SAIC, a Chinese automaker that sells cars under the British brand MG.
Some analysts interpreted the move as a concession that Volkswagen was unable to compete with Chinese companies on the latest technology.
"The automobile of the future is coming from China. The Chinese are the leaders in important technology sectors," said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, the director of the Center for Automotive Research in Duisburg, Germany. "Without the know-how of the Chinese, Volkswagen would lose customers in China and, in a few years, in the rest of the world."
What's Next
Unlike Tesla, which has become the world's most popular electric-car company partly by producing relatively few models in a limited palette of exterior and interior colors, Volkswagen Group offers dozens of models from its 10 brands, which include Audi, Porsche and Lamborghini. Analysts have increasingly questioned whether such a complex offering can remain competitive in today's market.
But Oliver Blume, Volkswagen's chief executive, expressed confidence that VW customers, including those in China, wanted more variety in their vehicles.
"People love brands -- people love design and individuality," Mr. Blume said on Thursday. "We think that is our specialty."
Oliver Blume, C.E.O. of Volkswagen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS KIENZLE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Equity stake

Location: China

People: Blume, Oliver

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/27/business/volkswagen- china-delivery-forecast.html

Title: Volkswagen Seeks Edge In the Chinese Market:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 28, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842746919

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/volkswagen-seeks-edge-chinese-market/docview/2842746919/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gerald C. Meyers, 94, Is Dead; C.E.O. Paved Way for the S.U.V.: [Biography]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gerald-c-meyers-94-is-dead-e-o-paved-way-s-u-v/docview/2836148637/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He led a struggling but innovative (if not quirky) American Motors to record profits and helped fuel an appetite for off-road vehicles with the Jeep Cherokee.
Gerald C. Meyers, a former chief executive of the American Motors Corporation who helped spark the nation's obsession with sport utility vehicles and oversaw the development of some of the quirkiest cars of the 1970s, died on June 19 at his home in West Bloomfield, Mich. He was 94.
His death was announced by his daughter Susan Meyers.
Mr. Meyers joined American Motors in 1962, after stints with Ford and Chrysler, and rose through the ranks as AMC fought to survive in a market dominated by his former employers and General Motors, the so-called Big Three; at the time, they collectively produced nine out of every 10 cars sold in the United States.
In 1970, as a senior manufacturing executive, Mr. Meyers was given the task of evaluating a possible acquisition of Kaiser Jeep. He advised AMC's board against it, noting the brand's serious production inefficiencies. But the board proceeded anyway -- and put Mr. Meyers in charge.
To appeal to more consumers, he upgraded existing Jeeps with better engines, suspensions and interiors, and directed the development of a new wagon, the Jeep Cherokee, which came out in the spring of 1974. Sales soon surged, steadying AMC's shaky finances and driving consumer interest in roomy off-road vehicles.
Mr. Meyers was soon promoted to AMC's top development executive. He led the design of a compact car that wouldn't leave occupants feeling cramped, an effort that resulted, in 1975, in the Pacer: a short, wide four-passenger car with oddly curved rear windows.
The Pacer's glass-bubble look drew joking comparisons to the flying space cars of the TV cartoon show "The Jetsons," although Motor Trend magazine called it "the freshest, most creative, most people-oriented auto to be born in the U.S. in 15 years." Other offbeat cars followed, including one that married Jeep components with a car body -- the AMC Eagle, the first passenger car with all-wheel drive made in the United States.
Mr. Meyers, at 48, was named chief executive in 1977, when AMC was struggling, controlling just 2 percent of the U.S. market. At 6 feet 2 inches tall, with the build of the former college football player he was and the looks of a Hollywood leading man, he cut an imposing figure. He was known as an analytical yet demanding manager -- a contrast to his brash, tough-talking rival Lee Iacocca, who was scrambling to save Chrysler.
"My way of doing things is different," Mr. Meyers told The Detroit Free Press that year. "I do not intend to do things the way they were done before. I intend to strike out in other directions and break some new ground."
AMC reported record profits in his second year at the helm, but when the U.S. economy slumped in 1979, banks declined to give AMC new loans. Mr. Meyers sought a partner and found one in the French automaker Renault, which bought a stake in AMC for $ 150 million (about $ 670 million today).
AMC started selling Renault cars, and the two companies began jointly developing a new compact sedan to be called the Alliance.
But AMC's troubles continued. In 1982, Renault installed a new management team, and Mr. Meyers retired at 53. Chrysler acquired AMC in 1987, disbanding most of its operations but keeping the Jeep brand.
Mr. Meyers then began teaching at his alma mater, Carnegie Mellon University, in Pittsburgh. He wrote two books on corporate crisis management, one co-written with his daughter Susan. From 1991 to 2017 he taught at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan.
He relaxed by sailing a catamaran. "If there was a breeze, and it got up on one hull, he was happy," Susan Meyers said.
Mr. Meyers's impact on the industry can still be seen today. Cars with all-wheel drive make up a profitable niche for brands like Subaru and Audi. The Pacer achieved cult fame, having appeared as the powder-blue ride of Mike Myers's character in the two "Wayne's World" movies. And Americans' fondness for Jeep-like vehicles hasn't relented. Today half of all vehicles sold in the United States are classified as S.U.V.s.
Gerald Carl Meyers was born on Dec. 5, 1928, in Buffalo. His father, Meyer Smuzek, was an immigrant from Poland who worked in New York City's garment district before moving to Buffalo, where he changed his last name to Meyers and opened an upscale tailoring shop. Gerald's mother, Berenice Meyers -- her surname at birth was the same as her married name -- was an opera singer.
The young Mr. Meyers skipped two grades in elementary school, graduated from high school at 15 and talked his way into a job parking cars at a garage even though he didn't know how to drive. "I banged up a few," he laughed in a home video. After a year at Canisius College in Buffalo, he transferred to Carnegie Mellon -- then called Carnegie Technical Institute -- where he captained the football team. After graduating in 1950, he was invited to try out for the Baltimore Colts but decided he'd endured enough broken noses and bones, Susan Meyers said.
Mr. Meyers landed a management training job at Ford. But when the Korean War started, he entered an Air Force officer training program and served as a lieutenant in Greenland. After returning home, he received a master's degree from Carnegie Tech in 1954, then found a job at Chrysler, where he often wore suits and coats made by his father.
At 26, he wrote out his life goals on a sheet of paper. He wanted to marry by the age of 30 and have two children by 33 and a third by 35. He wanted to make $ 30,000 a year by age 45 (the equivalent about $ 340,000 today) and $ 50,000 by 55, and he listed all the positions he thought he'd need to reach on the way to becoming a corporate officer.
While working at Chrysler, Mr. Meyers asked his roommate if he knew any women he could date. The roommate pulled a crumpled slip of paper out of the trash with the number of Barbara Jacob, a buyer at a department store. They married in 1958, had three children and eventually moved to Bloomfield Township, a wealthy suburb of Detroit.
His wife died in 2009, and his son, Andrew, died in 2019. In addition to his daughter Susan, he is survived by another daughter, Nancy Meyers, and a grandson.
Susan Meyers recalled that her father's steady manner never seemed to waver. When she once crashed a Pacer that he had leased for her, he said nothing, she recalled, and a new Pacer simply arrived about two weeks later. "I think he thought totaling the car was its own punishment," she said.
Eventually, though, he was somewhat bothered by the S.U.V. craze that he had helped set in motion. In a column he wrote for The New York Times in 2000, he lamented the gigantic size of the gas-guzzling S.U.V.s that Detroit was then producing.
"I feel like Dr. Frankenstein these days, having pumped life into a corpse only to face the horror of its evolution," he wrote. If the industry wasn't going to return to making smaller models, he added, "maybe it would have been better to let Jeep's corpse rest undisturbed."
Photograph Gerald C. Meyers in 1977 as the head of American Motors. "I do not intend to do things the way they were done before," he said. "I intend to strike out in other directions and break some new ground." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SACKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. Meyers had a key role in the design of the Pacer, a four-door with oddly curved back windows. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL IMAGES GROUP VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: Automobiles; Deaths

Location: United States--US; Detroit Michigan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/12/business/gerald-c-meyers-dead.html

Title: Gerald C. Meyers, 94, Is Dead; C.E.O. Paved Way for the S.U.V.:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 13, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2836148637

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gerald-c-meyers-94-is-dead-e-o-paved-way-s-u-v/docview/2836148637/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 13, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gerald C. Meyers, CEO Who Paved Way for the SUV, Dies at 94

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gerald-c-meyers-ceo-who-paved-way-suv-dies-at-94/docview/2836075021/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Gerald C. Meyers, a former CEO of the American Motors Corp. who helped spark the nation’s obsession with sport utility vehicles and oversaw the development of some of the quirkiest cars of the 1970s, died on June 19 at his home in West Bloomfield, Michigan. He was 94.
His death was announced by his daughter, Susan Meyers.
Gerald Meyers joined American Motors in 1962, after stints with Ford and Chrysler, and rose through the ranks as AMC fought to survive in a market dominated by his former employers and General Motors, the so-called Big Three; at the time, they collectively produced nine out of every 10 cars sold in the United States.
In 1970, as a senior manufacturing executive, Meyers was given the task of evaluating a possible acquisition of Kaiser Jeep. He advised AMC’s board against it, noting the brand’s serious production inefficiencies. But the board proceeded anyway — and put Meyers in charge.
To appeal to more consumers, he upgraded existing Jeeps with better engines, suspensions and interiors, and directed the development of a new wagon, the Jeep Cherokee, which came out in the spring of 1974. Sales soon surged, steadying AMC’s shaky finances and driving consumer interest in roomy off-road vehicles.
Meyers was soon promoted to AMC’s top development executive. He led the design of a compact car that wouldn’t leave occupants feeling cramped, an effort that resulted, in 1975, in the Pacer: a short, wide four-passenger car with oddly curved rear windows.
The Pacer’s glass-bubble look drew joking comparisons to the flying space cars of the TV cartoon show “The Jetsons,” although Motor Trend magazine called it “the freshest, most creative, most people-oriented auto to be born in the U.S. in 15 years.” Other offbeat cars followed, including one that married Jeep components with a car body — the AMC Eagle, the first passenger car with all-wheel drive made in the United States.
Meyers, at 48, was named CEO in 1977, when AMC was struggling, controlling just 2% of the U.S. market. At 6 feet, 2 inches tall, with the build of the former college football player he was and the looks of a Hollywood leading man, he cut an imposing figure. He was known as an analytical yet demanding manager — a contrast to his brash, tough-talking rival Lee Iacocca, who was scrambling to save Chrysler.
“My way of doing things is different,” Meyers told The Detroit Free Press that year. “I do not intend to do things the way they were done before. I intend to strike out in other directions and break some new ground.”
AMC reported record profits in his second year at the helm, but when the U.S. economy slumped in 1979, banks declined to give AMC new loans. Meyers sought a partner and found one in French automaker Renault, which bought a stake in AMC for $150 million (about $670 million today).
AMC started selling Renault cars, and the two companies began jointly developing a new compact sedan to be called the Alliance.
But AMC’s troubles continued. In 1982, Renault installed a new management team, and Meyers retired at 53. Chrysler acquired AMC in 1987, disbanding most of its operations but keeping the Jeep brand.
Meyers then began teaching at his alma mater, Carnegie Mellon University, in Pittsburgh. He wrote two books on corporate crisis management, one co-written with his daughter Susan. From 1991 to 2017 he taught at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan.
He relaxed by sailing a catamaran. “If there was a breeze, and it got up on one hull, he was happy,” Susan Meyers said.
Gerald Meyers’ impact on the industry can still be seen today. Cars with all-wheel drive make up a profitable niche for brands like Subaru and Audi. The Pacer achieved cult fame, having appeared as the powder-blue ride of Mike Myers’ character in the two “Wayne’s World” movies. And Americans’ fondness for Jeep-like vehicles hasn’t relented. Today half of all vehicles sold in the United States are classified as SUVs.
Gerald Carl Meyers was born on Dec. 5, 1928, in Buffalo, New York. His father, Meyer Smuzek, was an immigrant from Poland who worked in New York City’s garment district before moving to Buffalo, where he changed his last name to Meyers and opened an upscale tailoring shop. Gerald’s mother, Berenice Meyers — her surname at birth was the same as her married name — was an opera singer.
The young Meyers skipped two grades in elementary school, graduated from high school at 15 and talked his way into a job parking cars at a garage even though he didn’t know how to drive. “I banged up a few,” he laughed in a home video. After a year at Canisius College in Buffalo, he transferred to Carnegie Mellon — then called Carnegie Technical Institute — where he captained the football team. After graduating in 1950, he was invited to try out for the Baltimore Colts but decided he’d endured enough broken noses and bones, Susan Meyers said.
Gerald Meyers landed a management training job at Ford. But when the Korean War started, he entered an Air Force officer training program and served as a lieutenant in Greenland. After returning home, he received a master’s degree from Carnegie Tech in 1954, then found a job at Chrysler, where he often wore suits and coats made by his father.
At 26, he wrote out his life goals on a sheet of paper. He wanted to marry by the age of 30 and have two children by 33 and a third by 35. He wanted to make $30,000 a year by age 45 (the equivalent of about $340,000 today) and $50,000 by 55, and he listed all the positions he thought he’d need to reach on the way to becoming a corporate officer.
While working at Chrysler, Meyers asked his roommate if he knew any women he could date. The roommate pulled a crumpled slip of paper out of the trash with the number of Barbara Jacob, a buyer at a department store. They married in 1958, had three children and eventually moved to Bloomfield Township, a wealthy suburb of Detroit.
His wife died in 2009, and his son, Andrew, died in 2019. In addition to his daughter Susan, he is survived by another daughter, Nancy Meyers, and a grandson.
Susan Meyers recalled that her father’s steady manner never seemed to waver. When she once crashed a Pacer that he had leased for her, he said nothing, she recalled, and a new Pacer simply arrived about two weeks later. “I think he thought totaling the car was its own punishment,” she said.
Eventually, though, he was somewhat bothered by the SUV craze that he had helped set in motion. In a column he wrote for The New York Times in 2000, he lamented the gigantic size of the gas-guzzling SUVs that Detroit was then producing.
“I feel like Dr. Frankenstein these days, having pumped life into a corpse only to face the horror of its evolution,” he wrote. If the industry wasn’t going to return to making smaller models, he added, “maybe it would have been better to let Jeep’s corpse rest undisturbed.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Automobiles; Deaths

Location: New York; United States--US; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Meyers, Gerald C; Football (College); Myers, Michael P (1966 ); Canisius College; Buffalo (Ny); Meyers, Nancy; Boudette, Neal E; Detroit Free Press; Colleges And Universities; Freedom Of The Press; Deaths (Obituaries); Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; New York City; United States; Renault Sa; Company Reports; Ford Motor Co; Myers, Mike; Automobiles; General Motors; American Motors Corp; University Of Pittsburgh; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Baltimore (Md); Iacocca, Lee A; South Korea; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Ross School; Michigan; Executives And Management (Theory); Carnegie Mellon University; Jee p Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Detroit (Mich); Subaru; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact And Microcars); Poland; Meyers, Susan (Author); Motor Trend; Bloomfield Township (Mich); United States Air Force Academy; Marriages; Education (K 12); Home Repairs And Improvements; United States Defense And Military Forces; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; France; Greenland; Trademarks And Trade Names; Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Economy; New York Times; University Of Michigan; Baltimore Colts; Wayne (Nj)

Title: Gerald C. Meyers, CEO Who Paved Way for the SUV, Dies at 94

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-12T22:05:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2836075021

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gerald-c-meyers-ceo-who-paved-way-suv-dies-at-94/docvi ew/2836075021/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 12, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ups and Downs at Aix-en-Provence Festival: [Review]

Author: Barone, Joshua

Publication info: Barone, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ups-downs-at-aix-en-provence-festival/docview/2835732761/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Not everything was an artistic or audience success at the 75th Aix-en-Provence Festival in France. But everything was worth discussing.
Christian Gerhaher never left the stage.
He could have, as the title character in Alban Berg's "Wozzeck." But in Simon McBurney's brutal, elegiac production at the Aix-en-Provence Festival in France, Gerhaher was exposed from the start: He wore his harrowing transformation, from hapless soldier to psychologically crushed murderer, on his face for the opera's 90 minutes of, as Wozzeck says, "one thing after another."
It was hard to watch, as this opera should be: Gerhaher, a baritone, is a reigning lieder singer with a scholarly attention to text and a chameleonic ability to inhabit richly considered characters, even for just a few minutes. This remarkable skill, on the scale of opera and under the care of McBurney's stark, unshowy staging, makes for a high point of Gerhaher's long, already much-lauded career.
With Simon Rattle leading a virtually unimpeachable London Symphony Orchestra in the pit, this "Wozzeck" was one of those operatic miracles: a harmonious meeting of singing, playing and direction at an impressively high level. It is the finest presentation at this year's edition of the Aix Festival, the 75th.
It's both understandable, and a touch disappointing, that the festival's clearest success was also the most traditional production: McBurney's "Wozzeck" could have come from any major opera house. But this type of show alone is not what makes Aix a summer music destination.
No. Its draw is also in the departures from tradition. Without them, Aix would be another Salzburg instead of the most interesting opera festival in Europe -- though at this point in Pierre Audi's tenure as artistic director, "opera" is too limiting a label, with a slate over the past week of film, music theater, concerts and, yes, opera, including two new works, each of vastly different character.
Many summer festivals exist primarily for the pleasure of music-making beyond the usual concert halls and theaters. That's part of the ethos of Aix, too, but what differentiates it from the others -- aside from its abundant rosé and laid-back, linen-forward dress code -- is that it seemingly asks at every turn: What else can we do here?
Big swings are taken every year. In this edition, not everything succeeded artistically (or with audiences); some of what I saw was reckless, some of it offensive. But it was all worth discussing.
There was provocation even at the low point, "Ballets Russes," a concert triple bill of Stravinsky's scores for the Ballets Russes -- "The Firebird," "Petrouchka" and "The Rite of Spring" -- accompanied by three films and screened in the cavernous Stadium de Vitrolles, in the hills south of Aix. In the pit, so to speak, was the Orchestre de Paris under the baton of its music director, Klaus Mäkelä.
The films were distinct: Rebecca Zlotowski's recut of her 2016 movie "Planetarium" for "Firebird"; an extended fashion ad of questionable sexual politics by Bertrand Mandico for "Petrouchka"; and a take on the "Rite," by Evangelia Kranioti, that treated the music's savagery so literally and tastelessly that it included Indigenous Brazilian imagery, drug usage among queer homeless youth and bloody violence against a transgender person.
I found my eye drifting from the screen to the orchestra, so richly scored and physical are these ballets from a white-hot moment of Stravinsky's career. But that, too, proved troubling. Mäkelä's objective approach insists on little yet actually pays off when he is leading top-tier players, like those of the Concertgebouw Orchestra in Amsterdam or the Chicago Symphony Orchestra -- less so the New York Philharmonic, where he debuted last December, and, for the purposes of this festival, the Orchestre de Paris.
What Mäkelä elicited from the Parisians was cleaner and more decisive than on their recording of "Firebird" and the "Rite" earlier this year. But it was still marred by a muddled Infernal Dance, for example, and an overly tentative bassoon solo at the start of the "Rite." The "Petrouchka" struggled to define its episodic style clearly, and flattened its layers of unsettling counterpoint as if polishing over them in one stroke.
Also uneven, but largely more coherent, was Dmitri Tcherniakov's staging of "Così Fan Tutte," the festival's annual Mozart production, at the outdoor Théâtre de l'Archevêché. Tcherniakov's treatment of the opera was "Così" by way of Ingmar Bergman and "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?," replacing the typically young lovers with older ones in need of rekindling their love through experimental therapy and role play.
Mozart's score of bright, agile vocal writing isn't easy for aging singers, so Tcherniakov's concept inevitably prioritized itself over the music. The cast, though, handled it courageously -- particularly the soprano Agneta Eichenholz as Fiordiligi, who performed the punishingly long "Per pietà" through the start of sudden rainfall. But the singers' vocal shortcomings were also unfairly exposed, and they were unreliably supported by Thomas Hengelbrock's inconsistent baton leading his Balthasar Neumann Orchestra.
Most at ease was the soprano Nicole Chevalier as Despina, here married to Don Alfonso; together, they run a resort or a couple's retreat and get pleasure from manipulating the sex lives of others. Tcherniakov seemed to be building toward an ending of renewed sexual appetites. But the finale turned violent -- an unearned non sequitur -- flipping the set's upscale resort into the scene of a shocking snuff film.
The director Thomas Ostermeier, of the Schaubühne in Berlin, had more control over his production: Kurt Weill, Bertolt Brecht and Elisabeth Hauptmann's "The Threepenny Opera," in a refreshingly corrective new French translation by Alexandre Pateau. Musically, it featured a newly inserted song, "Pauv' Madam Peachum," written in the late 1930s for a French revival, and a slightly altered orchestration by Maxime Pascal, who vigorously conducted his ensemble Le Balcon in the pit at the Archevêché.
But Ostermeier appeared to have so much control over the material, with such a by-the-book treatment of the text, that it came off as mannered. For all its grit and modern look, this "Threepenny," performed by the company of the Comédie-Française, was ultimately conventional. A director must know exactly what to say with the piece; anything else is bound, as here, to be a slog of a recitation.
A far more rewarding portrait of Weill could be found at the courtyard of the Hôtel Maynier d'Oppède, where the pianist Kirill Gerstein, the festival's artist in residence, performed songs by Weill and Hanns Eisler with HK Gruber, the composer, conductor and arguably greatest living interpreter of this style. Their "Threepenny" selections in particular demonstrated how best to balance the piece's infectious melodies and bitter texts: Gerstein's playing buoyant and dancing, Gruber's semi-Sprechstimme snarling, with wickedly rolling R's on phrases like "Beefsteak Tartar."
Concerts proved as satisfying as any staged production during Aix's opening week: Gerstein and members of the Berlin Philharmonic performing a chamber arrangement of Mahler's Fourth Symphony, for example, or his delightful mounting of a rarely seen Zemlinsky pantomime, "Ein Lichtstrahl." And at the Conservatoire Darius Milhaud, the soprano Asmik Grigorian gave a characteristically mighty and dramatically considered recital of Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff songs with the pianist Lukas Genusias.
Premieres at Aix can be a mixed bag, but this year "Picture a Day Like This," by George Benjamin and Martin Crimp, and "The Faggots and Their Friends Between Revolutions," by Philip Venables and Ted Huffman, were rightfully well-received contributions to the field: often surprising, executed with mastery and worth repeated viewing as they travel in the coming months and years. (Both were reviewed in The New York Times last weekend.)
And then there was "Wozzeck." Gerhaher wasn't alone in his triumph; to name just one colleague, the soprano Malin Byström, as Marie, exuded desperation and sympathy. And Rattle propelled the score with transparent details and, in the final instrumental interlude, crushing Mahlerian pathos and grandeur.
During that moment, I was reminded of the artist William Kentridge's "Wozzeck" production, the one most recently presented at the leading opera houses in France, at the Paris Opera, and in the United States, at the Metropolitan Opera. At that orchestral climax, Kentridge crowds the stage with towering, obvious and distracting war imagery that overstates the effect.
At the Grand Théâtre de Provence, McBurney had the bare walls of his set simply close in, creating a spare, shallow stage and letting the music speak for itself while a spotlight shone on the newly orphaned child of Wozzeck and Marie. It was one of the show's many haunting images.
Elsewhere, McBurney's production could be easily taken for granted if not examined closely: cleanly minimal, yet technologically sophisticated and guided by the choreographer Leah Hausman -- who moves masses of performers so smoothly, she can conjure a bar scene or make it vanish with magical brevity.
During a week at Aix, I saw "Wozzeck" last, and I'm glad that was how the schedule worked out. Experimentation had been worthwhile in its way, but McBurney's staging was evidence of opera's undying ability to move, shatter and shock on its own. Thankfully, the festival makes room for both.
Photograph Christian Gerhaher, center, among chorus members of Simon McBurney's new staging of"Wozzeck" at the Grand Théâtre de Provence at the Aix-en-Provence Festival in France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONIKA RITTERSHAUS); Claïna Clavaron, above left, and Christian Hecq, above right, in "The Threepenny Opera," directed by Thomas Ostermeier in a refreshingly corrective new French translation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEAN-LOUIS FERNANDEZ); From left, Claudia Mahnke, Rainer Trost, Agneta Eichenholz and Russell Braun as the two couples whose romances need rekindling in Dmitri Tcherniakov's staging of "Così Fan Tutte." (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONIKA RITTERHAUS) This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Vocal music; Musicians & conductors; Opera; Motion picture directors & producers; Homeless people; Singers; Musical performances; Festivals; Orchestras

Business indexing term: Subject: Orchestras

Location: New York; United States--US; France

Company / organization: Name: Orchestre de Paris; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/11/arts/music/aix-en-provence-festival-france.html

Title: Ups and Downs at Aix-en-Provence Festival:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 12, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2835732761

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ups-downs-at-aix-en-provence-festival/docview/2835732761/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 12, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

NATO's Newest Border With Russia Is Quiet Now, but Finland Is Wary: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Crowley, Michael

Publication info: Crowley, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/natos-newest-border-with-russia-is-quiet-now/docview/2834552177/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Finland's membership in the Western military alliance has increased NATO's borders with Russia by 830 miles -- and angered Moscow.
On a recent afternoon along Finland's border with Russia, an attack from Russian military bases a few miles away seemed a distant prospect.
That's not only because, as NATO's newest member, Finland now enjoys the guaranteed protection of 30 nations, including the United States -- a development that President Biden will celebrate during a visit to Helsinki next week.
It's also because most of the Russians once stationed in the area went to fight in Ukraine, and many if not most of them, Finnish officials say, are dead. It may be years before Russia poses a conventional military threat from across the verdant forest of pine, spruce and birch.
But there were some Russians to be seen on a sunny June day at the Vaalimaa border crossing, about midway between Helsinki and St. Petersburg. A trickle came and went, many in expensive cars: an Audi Q7, a black BMW with two sleek bikes mounted on a rack. These Russians were likely dual passport holders, possibly headed to other European countries that they can reach only by land because of flight restrictions following Russia's invasion of Ukraine last year.
For anyone trying to cross the border illicitly, border guard foot patrols roam the woods. But their trail-sniffing dogs encounter few Russians trying to sneak into Finland.
"We do have some Finns trying to sneak that way," said Matti Pitkäniitty, an official with the Finnish Border Guard, who guided a visitor around the site, "but normally they are mental cases." Perhaps the biggest concern on this afternoon was a black bear seen prowling the area.
The peaceful scene belies the fear among many Finns that despite Russia's weakened state, this transit point, and their country, could one day become a Russian target. That anxiety prompted Finland to seek membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization last year, a process completed in April when Finland became its 31st member in what Mr. Biden calls a strategic blow for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
That move infused a long, placid relationship between Moscow and Helsinki with sharp new tensions. In January, Russia's military announced plans to add a new army corps to the border region of Karelia.
And on Thursday, Russia's foreign ministry said it was expelling nine Finnish diplomats -- payback for Finland's expulsion last month of nine Russian diplomats accused of being intelligence operatives -- and would shutter Finland's consulate in St. Petersburg this fall. A foreign ministry statement said that Finland's membership in NATO and its support for Ukraine posed "a threat to the security of the Russian Federation" and amounts to "clearly hostile actions."
But Finnish officials say the only threat is Russia.
"The Finns think that we could quite easily be in the position that the Ukrainians are in," Mr. Pitkäniitty said. Gesturing to a road that crosses the border through the forest, he added: "If a Russian division wants to attack Helsinki, they need to go through here. You would be seeing ruins and smoke here."
Such an attack would have vastly greater consequences, now that Finland's border -- an 830-mile frontier that runs roughly north-south from the Barents Sea to the Gulf of Finland -- has become a NATO boundary, more than doubling Russia's existing borders with NATO countries. Under the alliance's charter, a Russian attack on Finland would be treated as an attack on all NATO members.
No one expects such an invasion anytime soon. But history leaves Finland understandably wary.
Etched in the country's national memory is Joseph Stalin's 1939 invasion and conquest of thousands of square miles of Finnish territory that Russia holds to this day. The Soviet leader believed that St. Petersburg required a larger buffer area to its west for protection, so he created one by force, at the cost of many thousands of lives.
After Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, many Finns revisited that dark chapter of their history.
"It wasn't hard for Finns to imagine themselves in the Ukrainians' shoes. They'd walked in them," Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken said during a visit to Helsinki in early June. "To many Finns, the parallels between 1939 and 2022 were striking."
For now, the NATO alliance has no plans to install infrastructure or station troops at the border, although its members are eager to learn more about it: U.S. and European officials have been visiting to assess its vulnerabilities and Finnish preparations.
The Finns say not to worry. For one thing, they proudly recall the huge casualties they inflicted on the invading Soviet forces in 1939 -- employing insurgent-style ambush tactics against a poorly led and equipped enemy, much as the Ukrainians would nearly a century later. Stalin's successor, Nikita Khrushchev, later said that while the Soviets had prevailed over the vastly outnumbered Finns, they had in fact suffered defeat, because "it encouraged our enemies' conviction that the Soviet Union was a colossus with feet of clay."
Partly thanks to bitter memories of that conflict, Finland's border guard doubles as a branch of its military. Its members receive full military training, and its units are equipped with body armor and semiautomatic rifles, though one team of three that patrolled around Vaalimaa on a recent day had stashed that gear; the only visible enemies were constant swarms of mosquitoes.
In their current numbers, though, the border guards would be of little use against a Russian military assault. It is one for which Finland has almost literally paved the way: A few years ago, Finland upgraded the highway that runs between Helsinki and Vaalimaa to accommodate trade and travel between Finland and Russia, which boomed in the last decade.
But border traffic today is below one-third of its prepandemic levels, and the road is lightly traveled.
The force of the NATO alliance, and its Article 5 treaty mandating collective self-defense, eases fears of attack. "That's the biggest reason why we joined -- to get the Article 5 cover," Brig. Gen. Sami Nurmi, a Finnish defense policy official, said in an April interview. "And also, of course, that deterrence aspect."
In the near term, the Finns are more worried about a very different form of warfare -- weaponized migration. About 60 miles north of Vaalimaa, Finland has begun to install its first border fence.
In late 2015 and early 2016, Finland experienced a surge of asylum-seeking migrants crossing the Russian border, most of them from third countries. Finnish officials saw the hand of Moscow, which has repeatedly directed migrants into European countries in an apparent effort to destabilize their politics.
"The impression that someone is organizing and regulating things on the Russian side is probably true," Finland's foreign minister, Timo Soini, told the country's state broadcaster at the time. "It is quite obvious that activity like this is a managed effort."
The Finns were caught off guard. "Never in my wildest dreams did I anticipate that we would have, for example, Bangladeshis coming with bicycles to a high north border crossing when the sun doesn't come up at all and it's minus 20-25 degrees Celsius," Mr. Pitkäniitty said, or minus 4 to minus 13 degrees Fahrenheit.
Despite that experience, Mr. Pitkäniitty said that he and his colleagues maintain cordial and professional relations with their Russian counterparts across the border. The two sides communicate regularly, he said.
"When we talk to the Russians we try to avoid politics," Mr. Pitkäniitty said. "There is no point in arguing. You just end up in a dispute that does not allow for solutions."
For years, he said, acceptable conversation topics with the Russians included fishing, hunting and sports. "Now we have to exclude sports, because they do not participate in international sports anymore," Mr. Pitkäniitty said. "So it's fishing and hunting you can safely talk about with the Russian officers."
At the same time, "I know that they will not hesitate to shoot me in the back if ordered to do so," he added. "Just as I would do the same to them."
John Ismay contributed reporting from Washington, D.C.
John Ismay contributed reporting from Washington, D.C.
Photograph The border crossing at Vaalimaa, Finland. The attack on Ukraine reminds Finns of the Soviet Union's 1939 invasion of their nation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANIS LAIZANS/REUTERS THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A5.

Subject: Military bases; Diplomatic & consular services

Location: Russia; United States--US; Ukraine; Finland; Union of Soviet Socialist Republics--USSR; Washington DC

Company / organization: Name: North Atlantic Treaty Organization--NATO; NAICS: 928120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/07/us/politics/russia-finland-nato-border.html

Title: NATO's Newest Border With Russia Is Quiet Now, but Finland Is Wary:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 8, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2834552177

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/natos-newest-border-with-russia-is-quiet-now/docview/2834 552177/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sterling K. Brown Stretches Past Randall: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Shattuck, Kathryn

Publication info: Shattuck, Kathryn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sterling-k-brown-stretches-past-randall/docview/2831912808/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Emmy-winning actor and star of the new movie "Biosphere" is sweet on vegan cookies, his Audi e-Tron and Toni Morrison's "The Bluest Eye."
The first time Sterling K. Brown read the script for "Biosphere," his new sci-fi movie with Mark Duplass, he thought, "'This is very non-Randall-esque,' which is always one of the criteria that I'm looking for in the next project."
He was referring, of course, to his beloved character in "This Is Us," which aired for six seasons on NBC and snagged Brown an Emmy, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
"But being known for a character and being known for a body of work are two different things," he added.
In a video call from Los Angeles -- during which one of his sons lugged in a Harry Potter book for his dad to read to him -- Brown talked about some of his coming projects in addition to "Biosphere," which opens July 7: Cord Jefferson's untitled adaptation of the Percival Everett novel "Erasure"; and "Washington Black," Brown's debut as a TV producer.
He'll also reunite with Dan Fogelman, the creator of "This Is Us," in a Hulu series about a Secret Service agent.
"I have a secret man crush on Dan Fogelman, I think because of what he was able to do for me for six years," Brown said before revealing a few other things he's been crushing on, like the relationship expert Esther Perel and the Tony-nominated play "Fat Ham." These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Trader Joe's Vegan Oatmeal Chocolate Chip Cookies
Is it sugar? Yeah. Is it health food? Not by any stretch of the imagination. But I have a sweet tooth, and it's vicious. If I have two to three of these cookies, my sweet tooth is sated and I get a chance to go on with the rest of my day.
Peloton
I find the instructors on this medium to be exceptional. The level of positivity that they have and the things that they share with you are the kinds of voices that you want reverberating in your head as you take on physical challenges. One of my favorite instructors is Jess Sims.
Audi e-Tron
It's nice to know that you're not putting anything into the air. And nobody hears you coming. I'm not a flossy man, so I don't need a car that peacocks too loudly. But I do enjoy comfort. I do enjoy a few bells and whistles. And as far as a luxury vehicle is concerned, I feel it blends in in a pretty nondescript way. I like to flash, but in the least flashy way possible.
Cocoa Butter
Being African American, something happens when you don't moisturize your skin. You get what we call in the community "ashy," where you can draw "D-R-Y" across your skin and it just stands out (#notagoodlook). So I drink a lot of water and I moisturize. I keep my skin as supple as I possibly can. Because the alternative for someone with a deeper shade of soul is you look like you've been walking around kicking flour.
Esther Perel
My wife and I have been married 17 years, and we've known each other since we were 18. The love that you have deepens over time with your partner. But what can suffer is the spontaneity and that spark that you had in the beginning. Esther has given us a couple of tools and insights. Just because we've been together this long doesn't mean that passion has to die.
Alexa
Alexa is Encyclopaedia Britannica, basically. If you want something quick-quick, Alexa gives you a fast answer, and then will ask you, "Did that help?" And you'll be like, "Yes, Alexa, that did. Thank you very much." I try to be polite. Listen, as A.I. is continuing to develop, and we don't know if we're making ourselves extinct to any potential sentient being, Brown is on his best behavior.
'The Bluest Eye'
There can be an inferiority complex that becomes internalized when you don't get a chance to see yourself presented to the world as beautiful. In "The Bluest Eye," Toni Morrison encapsulates that internalization in the most profound, poetic and incredible way.
'Fat Ham'
You're taking the story of Hamlet, you're putting it in a backyard barbecue in the South with a young, queer, Black male protagonist. It is such a faithful following of Hamlet until it's not. Then it's such a delightful departure.
My Children Playing
I played basketball, football, soccer, track, a little bit of Ultimate Frisbee. The joy of watching your children accrue skills and be able to engage with you in something that was such a big part of your own childhood is great.
Crying in the Theater
The first Broadway show that I ever saw, in 1998, was "Ragtime." Audra McDonald came out and sang "You have your daddy's hands." And I was like, "Is this woman an angel? Is she a real human being?" You want to see Sterling cry? Then I had the privilege of working with Renée Elise Goldsberry. If she sings "It's Quiet Uptown" [from "Hamilton"] -- child, please. I am a mess.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page AR4.

Subject: Skin; Veganism; Biosphere

People: Morrison, Toni (1931-2019); Brown, Sterling K; Fogelman, Dan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/24/movies/sterling-k-brown.html

Title: Sterling K. Brown Stretches Past Randall:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 2, 2023

column: My Ten

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831912808

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sterling-k-brown-stretches-past-randall/docview/2831912808/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

VW Replaces Audi Chief Amid Pressure to Electrify: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vw-replaces-audi-chief-amid-pressure-electrify/docview/2831149446/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The News
Volkswagen is replacing the chief executive at its luxury brand Audi, naming Gernot Döllner to take over from Markus Duesmann, as the company seeks to accelerate its transition to electric vehicles.
Mr. Döllner, who has served as Volkswagen's leading strategist, will start his new role on Sept. 1, Audi said in a statement on Thursday. Audi, although profitable, is struggling to convert to battery power and compete with the growing threat from Chinese carmakers.
Herbert Diess, Volkswagen's chief executive before Oliver Blume took over in September, brought Mr. Duesmann to Audi from BMW three years ago, with the hope that he could help the brand innovate and strengthen sales of its electric models.
The company's earnings grew 40 percent to 7.6 billion euros, or $ 8.3 billion, in 2022, thanks to a decision to prioritize its higher-end vehicles over more affordable cars as it worked through a chips shortage caused by the supply chain disruptions linked to the coronavirus pandemic.
Audi is now working on its final generation of combustion engine models and plans to bring 10 new electric models to its lineup, ahead of plans to produce only E.V.s beginning in 2026.
What It Means: Audi faces competition for electric vehicles.
Audi is Volkswagen's second-most-important luxury line, after Porsche. Although Porsche has successfully broken into the market for electric vehicles, Audi's strength has been the continued popularity of its combustion engine vehicles.
Now, the company faces stiff competition from the leading producers of electric vehicles, such as Tesla and Chinese automakers. Mr. Blume has said he expects the company to maintain 14 percent growth and wants to see Audi better coordinate its production with both VW and Porsche.
That will be easier with Mr. Döllner as the company's head, as he worked many years alongside Mr. Blume when both were top-level managers at Porsche, which like Audi is owned by the Volkswagen Group.
Mr. Döllner has been working at Volkswagen since 1993, while still earning his doctorate. He served as head of Porsche's four-door Panamera sedan series, which he helped develop.
What's Next: A focus on North America and China.
A main focus for Mr. Döllner will be to push ahead talks on opening a factory in North America. Audi's main competitors, BMW and Mercedes-Benz, both have production facilities in the United States, allowing them to produce nearly twice as many vehicles for that market. Audi's S.U.V.s are popular with U.S. drivers, and the company is looking at developing electric versions of several of its leading models.
In China, Audi's combustion engine vehicles remain popular, but the company needs to speed up production of electric vehicles if the brand is to remain competitive with popular local producers, including BYD and Chery.
Markus Duesmann was brought into Audi from BMW with the hope that he could help the brand innovate and strengthen sales of its electric models. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLEMENS BILAN/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Competition

Location: China; United States--US; North America

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/29/business/volkswagen-audi-chief-executive.html

Title: VW Replaces Audi Chief Amid Pressure to Electrify:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831149446

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vw-replaces-audi-chief-amid-pressure-electrify/docview/2831149446/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Smoke-Filled Air Engulfs Midwest, Then Heads East: [National Desk]

Author: Bosman, Julie

Publication info: Bosman, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smoke-filled-air-engulfs-midwest-then-heads-east/docview/2830525364/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Across the nation's middle, unhealthy air from Canadian wildfires sent summer campers home and left residents coughing, and asking when this would end.
The Great Lakes region was enveloped in smoke and haze from Canadian wildfires for a second day on Wednesday, prompting millions of Americans to stay indoors in the heart of summer to avoid the unhealthy air.
In Chicago, the city's famous skyline was shrouded in whitish, smoky clouds as President Biden, visiting for the day, delivered a speech downtown on his economic policies. Pools and summer camps in Madison, Wis., were closed down, forcing parents to scramble to find child care. Cleveland residents who ventured outside could taste the smoke in the air, the worst conditions that many had seen since the first wave from Canadian wildfires descended into the northern United States this month.
"You can even see the quality of the air is awful," said Vincent Radzilowski, 59, a mail carrier, as he walked his route in suburban Cleveland wearing a mask for the first time in ages. "I'm going to be out here 10 or eight hours today, so that's a long day to be breathing in this kind of air."
Forecasters predicted that by Thursday, the worst of the smoke would largely move on from the Midwest, where hazardous air quality paralyzing daily life remains a rare event. But the smoky air was threatening the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions once again, and officials in New York warned residents that they should brace themselves.
Air quality had reached unhealthy levels in parts of the state on Wednesday, and was expected to worsen on Thursday, according to officials.
At a news conference on Wednesday, Mayor Eric Adams of New York City urged residents to take precautions. "In particular, vulnerable residents may want to adjust your outdoor activities," he said.
In Chicago, the Air Quality Index had reached 217 by midafternoon, according to AirNow, a website and app administered by the Environmental Protection Agency; in Detroit, the index had reached 203; in Cincinnati, 185. Any reading above 100 on the index is a warning to people with respiratory conditions to take precautions.
Climate change has turned once improbably high temperatures into more commonplace occurrences, and is "the elephant in the room" that is worsening wildfires and their effects on air quality, said John C. Lin, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Utah.
They are now burning longer and more ferociously, and churning out more smoke that contains a complex mix of gases, hazardous air pollutants, water vapor and particle pollution.
President Biden arrived at Chicago O'Hare International Airport on Wednesday through a dense layer of smoke. A spokeswoman said that the administration was monitoring air quality in the city and elsewhere in the country.
"This is part of a growing pattern of extreme weather events that we're seeing as a result of climate change," Olivia Dalton, the deputy White House press secretary, said.
In the Midwest, residents whose routines were interrupted by the smoke and haze tried to adjust -- and wait it out.
Outside a homeless shelter in Detroit, Nicholas Massengale, 33, was looking for a place to rest. The polluted air was getting to him, he said, as he sought a place to sit down.
"This out here is what's been bothering me," he said. "It's leading to headaches and stuff."
Kevin and Ashley Peets walked in downtown Flint, Mich., with their 3-month-old daughter, Isabelle, who was nestled in a baby carrier covered by a cloth. The couple said she was born three months premature and had come off oxygen only two weeks ago.
"We've been staying locked indoors, trying to not bring her out anywhere," Mr. Peets said.
The air quality in Detroit was one of the worst in the country on Wednesday, as the wildfire smoke suffused the city in an acrid haze. Michigan environmental officials issued a statewide air quality alert effective through Wednesday, advising children, vulnerable adults and pet owners to reduce their time outdoors.
Still, masks were a rare sight in many cities across the Midwest, as some residents said they were unaware of the severity of the pollution and others tried to take it in stride and proceed with planned events.
Muslims in Chicago observed Eid al-Adha in a lakefront celebration on Wednesday, despite the foul, smoky air. In Detroit, Marseille Arbuckle was one of the few people wearing a mask as he walked his dog, Thor, along the Detroit River.
An avid jogger, he said he was not too worried about the air quality affecting his health.
"My dog sneezes and coughs a little more," Mr. Arbuckle, 35, said. "My throat's a little drier, and it gives me a headache."
Just north of downtown Detroit, a group of landscapers were taking a break near a basketball court on Wednesday. One of the workers, Anthony Williams, 28, said there was not much he could do about the air quality -- but they have been wearing masks just in case.
"On Monday, we thought it was just fog," Mr. Williams said, adding that by Tuesday an odor had emerged. "It's a concern because you smell it all day, so you're thinking about your health. But you've got to do what you've got to do."
On a typical day in Pittsburgh, Becki Toth can see the building where she works -- the Cathedral of Learning at the University of Pittsburgh -- from her home across town in the city's West End neighborhood.
"Today I can see one street down from me, and that's it," she said.
The haze was as bad she could ever remember, said Ms. Toth, 48, a theater professor and performer. Her husband, who grew up in Pittsburgh when it was still a major steel town, agreed.
Ms. Toth said she intended to stay inside all day to keep her asthma from flaring up. She began feeling a tickle in her throat last night, "a little ball of cobwebs right in the clavicle," and thought she was getting sick.
But then she received the air quality alerts on her phone. "It turns out it's actually just a doom cloud," she said.
Cancellations of summertime activities and events cascaded across the region on Wednesday.
Citing dangerous conditions, officials in Pittsburgh postponed an event called "City in the Streets," where residents of Pittsburgh were supposed to meet and talk with representatives of various city departments.
The Cleveland Department of Public Health's air quality division and the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency both issued health alerts because of the air. Cleveland called off all outdoor recreation programs for the day, closed its outdoor pools, spray basins and water parks, and canceled trash collection.
The air was so unhealthy that Chris Ronayne, the executive of Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, canceled his annual speech on the state of the county at Jacobs Pavilion at Nautica, an outdoor venue on the banks of the Cuyahoga River.
At the same time, Major League Baseball was pressing ahead with games.
In Pittsburgh, where the Air Quality Index had at one point reached 180, according to AirNow, the Pirates issued a statement saying that they intended to play their game on Wednesday against the San Diego Padres. In Chicago, the Cubs had yet to comment by midafternoon on Wednesday evening's scheduled game against the Philadelphia Phillies.
Health officials said they remained concerned about the continuing effects of the wildfires on vulnerable populations, including older people, children, people with health conditions and the homeless.
Chad Audi, the president of Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries, which provides services for the homeless, said he was receiving more calls on Wednesday about people with asthma and had referred two people to a hospital.
"We bend the rules a little bit because they're supposed to be leaving the facility after they have breakfast and come back during dinner time," he said of the shelter he runs. "As long as we have bad air quality, we're allowing people to stay. "
Reporting was contributed by Scott Atkinson, Delger Erdenesanaa, Lola Fadulu, Emma Fitzsimmons, Benjamin Hoffman, Ryan Patrick Hooper, Ida Lieszkovszky, Anushka Patil, Campbell Robertson, Michael D. Shear and Raymond Zhong.
Reporting was contributed by Scott Atkinson, Delger Erdenesanaa, Lola Fadulu, Emma Fitzsimmons, Benjamin Hoffman, Ryan Patrick Hooper, Ida Lieszkovszky, Anushka Patil, Campbell Robertson, Michael D. Shear and Raymond Zhong.
Photograph Haze from Canadian wildfires blanketed Pittsburgh, as seen from West End Overlook in the Elliott neighborhood on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN B. BRAUN/PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); A man tossed a fishing net into the Ohio River, with smoke visible over Cincinnati on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA A. BICKEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12.

Subject: Ozone; Air pollution; Outdoor air quality; Forest & brush fires; Smoke inhalation; Health hazards

Location: United States--US; Canada; Midwest states

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/28/us/canada-wildfire-smoke-air-quality-midwest.html

Title: Smoke-Filled Air Engulfs Midwest, Then Heads East:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 29, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2830525364

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smoke-filled-air-engulfs-midwest-then-heads-east/docview/2830525364/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Smoky Skies Menace U.S. Cities, Driving Residents Indoors

Author: Bosman, Julie

Publication info: Bosman, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smoky-skies-menace-u-s-cities-driving-residents/docview/2830443382/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
CHICAGO — The Great Lakes region was enveloped in smoke and haze from Canadian wildfires for a second day Wednesday, prompting millions of Americans to stay indoors in the heart of summer to avoid the unhealthy air.
In Chicago, the city’s famous skyline was shrouded in whitish, smoky clouds as President Joe Biden, visiting for the day, delivered a speech downtown on his economic policies. Pools and summer camps in Madison, Wisconsin, were closed down, forcing parents to scramble to find child care. Cleveland residents who ventured outside could taste the smoke in the air, the worst conditions that many had seen since the first wave from Canadian wildfires descended into the northern United States this month.
“You can even see the quality of the air is awful,” said Vincent Radzilowski, 59, a mail carrier, as he walked his route in suburban Cleveland wearing a mask for the first time in ages. “I’m going to be out here 10 or eight hours today, so that’s a long day to be breathing in this kind of air.”
Forecasters predicted that by Thursday, the worst of the smoke would largely move on from the Midwest, where hazardous air quality paralyzing daily life remains a rare event. But the smoky air was threatening the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions once again, and officials in New York warned residents that they should brace themselves.
Air quality had reached unhealthy levels in parts of the state Wednesday, and was expected to worsen Thursday, according to officials.
At a news conference Wednesday, Mayor Eric Adams of New York City urged residents to take precautions. “In particular, vulnerable residents may want to adjust your outdoor activities,” he said.
In Chicago, the Air Quality Index had reached 217 by midafternoon, according to AirNow, a website and app administered by the Environmental Protection Agency; in Detroit, the index had reached 203; in Cincinnati, 185. Any reading above 100 on the index is a warning to people with respiratory conditions to take precautions.
Climate change has turned once improbably high temperatures into more commonplace occurrences, and is “the elephant in the room” that is worsening wildfires and their effects on air quality, said John C. Lin, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Utah.
They are now burning longer and more ferociously, and churning out more smoke that contains a complex mix of gases, hazardous air pollutants, water vapor and particle pollution.
Biden arrived at Chicago O’Hare International Airport on Wednesday through a dense layer of smoke. A spokesperson said that the administration was monitoring air quality in the city and elsewhere in the country.
“This is part of a growing pattern of extreme weather events that we’re seeing as a result of climate change,” said Olivia Dalton, the deputy White House press secretary.
In the Midwest, residents whose routines were interrupted by the smoke and haze tried to adjust — and wait it out.
Outside a homeless shelter in Detroit, Nicholas Massengale, 33, was looking for a place to rest. The polluted air was getting to him, he said, as he sought a place to sit down.
“This out here is what’s been bothering me,” he said. “It’s leading to headaches and stuff.”
Kevin and Ashley Peets walked in downtown Flint, Michigan, with their 3-month-old daughter, Isabelle, who was nestled in a baby carrier covered by a cloth. The couple said she was born three months premature and had come off oxygen only two weeks ago.
“We’ve been staying locked indoors, trying to not bring her out anywhere,” Peets said.
The air quality in Detroit was one of the worst in the country Wednesday, as the wildfire smoke suffused the city in an acrid haze. Michigan environmental officials issued a statewide air quality alert effective through Wednesday, advising children, vulnerable adults and pet owners to reduce their time outdoors.
Still, masks were a rare sight in many cities across the Midwest, as some residents said they were unaware of the severity of the pollution and others tried to take it in stride and proceed with planned events.
Muslims in Chicago observed Eid al-Adha in a lakefront celebration Wednesday, despite the foul, smoky air. In Detroit, Marseille Arbuckle was one of the few people wearing a mask as he walked his dog, Thor, along the Detroit River.
An avid jogger, he said he was not too worried about the air quality affecting his health.
“My dog sneezes and coughs a little more,” Arbuckle, 35, said. “My throat’s a little drier, and it gives me a headache.”
Just north of downtown Detroit, a group of landscapers were taking a break near a basketball court Wednesday. One of the workers, Anthony Williams, 28, said there was not much he could do about the air quality — but they have been wearing masks just in case.
“On Monday, we thought it was just fog,” Williams said, adding that by Tuesday an odor had emerged. “It’s a concern because you smell it all day, so you’re thinking about your health. But you’ve got to do what you’ve got to do.”
On a typical day in Pittsburgh, Becki Toth can see the building where she works — the Cathedral of Learning at the University of Pittsburgh — from her home across town in the city’s West End neighborhood.
“Today I can see one street down from me, and that’s it,” she said.
The haze was as bad she could ever remember, said Toth, 48, a theater professor and performer. Her husband, who grew up in Pittsburgh when it was still a major steel town, agreed.
Toth said she intended to stay inside all day to keep her asthma from flaring up. She began feeling a tickle in her throat last night, “a little ball of cobwebs right in the clavicle,” and thought she was getting sick.
But then she received the air quality alerts on her phone. “It turns out it’s actually just a doom cloud,” she said.
Cancellations of summertime activities and events cascaded across the region Wednesday.
Citing dangerous conditions, officials in Pittsburgh postponed an event called “City in the Streets,” where residents of Pittsburgh were supposed to meet and talk with representatives of various city departments.
The Cleveland Department of Public Health’s air quality division and the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency both issued health alerts because of the air. Cleveland called off all outdoor recreation programs for the day, closed its outdoor pools, spray basins and water parks, and canceled trash collection.
The air was so unhealthy that Chris Ronayne, the executive of Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, canceled his annual speech on the state of the county at Jacobs Pavilion at Nautica, an outdoor venue on the banks of the Cuyahoga River.
At the same time, Major League Baseball was pressing ahead with games.
In Pittsburgh, where the Air Quality Index had at one point reached 180, according to AirNow, the Pirates issued a statement saying that they intended to play their game Wednesday against the San Diego Padres. In Chicago, the Cubs had yet to comment by midafternoon on Wednesday evening’s scheduled game against the Philadelphia Phillies.
Health officials said they remained concerned about the continuing effects of the wildfires on vulnerable populations, including older people, children, people with health conditions and the homeless.
Chad Audi, the president of Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries, which provides services for the homeless, said he was receiving more calls Wednesday about people with asthma and had referred two people to a hospital.
“We bend the rules a little bit because they’re supposed to be leaving the facility after they have breakfast and come back during dinner time,” he said of the shelter he runs. “As long as we have bad air quality, we’re allowing people to stay.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Asthma; Ozone; Outdoor activities; Homeless people; Professional baseball; Airports; Air pollution; Presidents; Outdoor air quality; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports

Location: Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Detroit Michigan; Michigan

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Hazing; Nautica Enterprises; Asthma; Cleveland (Ohio); University Of Cincinnati; West End Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Great Lakes; Cincinnati (Ohio); Philadelphia (Pa); Speeches And Statements; New York City; Air Pollution; Masks; United States; Waste Materials And Disposal; Textiles; Canada; Throat; Midwestern States (Us); Lakes; Smells And Odors; University Of Pittsburgh; Rescues; Ohio; Environmental Protection Agency; San Diego Padres; Pollution; Cuyahoga River; Muslim Americans; Global Warming; Pittsburgh Pirates; Baby Carriages, Strollers And Carriers; Michigan; University Of Utah; Chicago Cubs; Wildfires; Wisconsin; Northeastern States (Us); Hazardous And Toxic Substances; Detroit (Mich); Cuyahoga County (Ohio); Utah; Senses And Sensation; American League; O'hare International Airport (Chicago, Il l); Baseball; Theater; Major League Baseball; Adams, Eric L; New York State; Philadelphia Phillies; Flint (Mich); Colleges And Universities; Chicago (Ill); Madison (Wis); Long Island (Ny); Bosman, Julie; Urban Areas; University Of Michigan; Coronavirus Risks And Safety Concerns; Masks (Costume); Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Smoky Skies Menace U.S. Cities, Driving Residents Indoors

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-29T00:53:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2830443382

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smoky-skies-menace-u-s-cities-driving-residents/docview/2830443382/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Stepping Down, Tiptoeing Back: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Woolfe, Zachary

Publication info: Woolfe, Zachary. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stepping-down-tiptoeing-back/docview/2826906710/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The concert had ended, and Riccardo Muti, the music director of the Chicago Symphony, was walking out of Orchestra Hall when he saw a banner in the lobby and stopped in his tracks.
"Muti Conducts the Grand Finale of the 2022-23 Season," it read. This was in May, with just a month of programs to go -- culminating in performances of Beethoven's mighty "Missa Solemnis," June 23-25, which will mark the end of Muti's 13-year directorship.
So when Muti, 81, began railing about the banner to his tiny entourage, it seemed like he must be joking: There could hardly be a grander finale to his acclaimed tenure. But it quickly became obvious that his anger was real.
"I told them not to write 'grand finale,"' he said, grimacing. "It's a finale? And then I'm back in September?"
The next morning, the offending banner was gone. His frustration was mostly silly, of course. The orchestra was just being factual in ginning up a little excitement at a climactic moment in the six-decade career of one of the most eminent figures in classical music.
But Muti had a point. Since his successor has not yet been named, he will be continuing as a kind of shadow music director next season, and possibly longer. Leaving -- yet not entirely leaving -- on a high note, with the adoration of Chicago's musicians and audiences, he has been sensitive that his farewell will seem like a grand anticlimax when he returns, just three months from now, for the fall opening concerts and a trip to Carnegie Hall.
"'He's here again,' they will say," Muti speculated in an interview. "'He's back!' It's too much."
"I don't blame him," said Helen Zell, the former chair of the orchestra's board, who endowed Muti's music director position. "Just as courting him was a big, long process, the exit is just as challenging."
Between the complicated beginning and ending, though, Muti's time in Chicago has been widely reckoned an enormous success. His performances of a broad swath of repertoire -- his signature Italian operas in concert, Beethoven symphonies, world premieres, rarities of the past, Mozart, Schubert, Bruckner, Florence Price, Philip Glass -- have been pristine yet intense, powerful yet graceful.
"He took the great Chicago Symphony Orchestra and made it even greater," Jeff Alexander, the orchestra's president, said. "The sound now is really spectacular -- in a more mellifluous, mellow, lyrical way."
His departure is about more than inevitable turnover at an important ensemble, said Pierre Audi, the stage director and impresario. It's a milestone as the generation of leaders born before the end of World War II passes -- and, with it, the old-school conception of the commanding, protecting maestro.
"Muti will leave Chicago, and that's it," Audi said. "It's the beginning of the end."
Muti was born, as he loves to tell people, in Naples and raised in Puglia. His longest-held position was nearly 20 years at the Teatro alla Scala in Milan, and his most lasting affiliation has been with the Vienna Philharmonic, which names no chief conductor. (He will lead that orchestra on the 200th anniversary of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony next spring.) He is European to the core.
Yet perhaps his most triumphant stints have been with two American ensembles: Chicago and, through the 1980s, the Philadelphia Orchestra. When he arrived in Philadelphia, he was an upstart in his 30s, taking over after four decades of Eugene Ormandy.
Ormandy had built an ensemble that was thick and lush, particularly in its famous strings, and he bathed every work in a uniform butteriness: The composer served the sound. Muti aimed to reverse that dynamic, creating distinct styles for Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms, Tchaikovsky -- adding a flexibility that took the group, as the violinist Barbara Govatos said, "from the Cadillac of orchestras to the Ferrari."
He surprised the still-enamored musicians when he left in the early 1990s, partly because of the difficulty balancing his work with La Scala and partly because plans for a new hall in Philadelphia were stagnating. As he focused on Milan, Muti said he had no interest in another music director position in America, with all the attendant extramusical responsibilities.
The New York Philharmonic nevertheless thought -- twice -- that it was on the verge of hiring him. Chicago ended up luckier after Daniel Barenboim announced in 2004 that he was leaving. Watching Muti conduct in Paris early the next year, Deborah Rutter, then president in Chicago, told a colleague, "If we can do it, this is the one it should be."
"There is a sort of electrical current to the energy he brings to his music-making," Rutter said recently. "And that sort of hyper-focused energy is something I would describe as being very Chicago-like."
Muti's relationship with La Scala was foundering, but he hadn't appeared with the Chicago Symphony since the 1970s. He and Rutter agreed he would come in 2006, but he canceled, which was crushing. She lured him back with dates the next fall, along with a European tour.
"I was too tired to travel, to start a new adventure," Muti said. "But when I came back here, immediately it was something that happened between me and the orchestra."
The critic Andrew Patner, describing those 2007 performances, wrote, "By the second date, the Italian maestro almost seemed like an old friend." After the tour, Muti received a box of handwritten letters from the players, a personal touch that helped seal the deal.
"There was an ecstatic reception he had when he was in Chicago, from the press and the public," said Zarin Mehta, then the president of the New York Philharmonic. "He was treated with total respect in New York, but not with the ecstatic admiration he gets in Chicago."
Barenboim had relaxed the ensemble's sound from the muscular, stentorian days of Georg Solti, but it still had a resolute Germanic style. Under Muti, the orchestra has still been able to produce, say, a Beethoven's Fifth of blistering force, but he generally wanted something more Italianate.
"I found a great orchestra," he said, "but not balanced. Everyone was speaking about the brass. The strings were a little too -- not harsh, but hard. No perfume. And the woodwinds, they had good players, but no one spoke about the woodwinds. And there is another thing: I needed them to sing."
The diet he prescribed was heavy on Schubert and, of course, opera, particularly his beloved Verdi, prepared with unsparing attention to detail. "Otello," in 2011, was ferociously dramatic; "Macbeth" (2013), a brooding march. "Falstaff" (2016) was witty, more delicate than slapstick; "Aida" (2019), coolly elegant; "Un Ballo in Maschera" (2022), meticulously sumptuous.
"The relentless thing he will not back down on is the refinement -- of line, of attack, of phrasing," said James Smelser, a hornist. "He doesn't make mistakes. There's always clarity, preparedness, consistency."
Muti has proved enthusiastic about performing in the community, including events at juvenile detention facilities. He embraced a fellowship program seeking to increase the racial diversity of the players' ranks. And after years of resisting, he even began to drop some of his complaints about appearing at endless donor events.
There were troubles. In 2019, a musicians' strike lasted nearly seven weeks; in an unusual move for a music director, Muti publicly sided with the players, and appeared with them on the picket line. During the pandemic, he agreed to stay on an extra year, but the pause in performances -- which meant a pause in appearances by potential candidates -- stalled the search for his successor.
Since relations between him and the orchestra are far warmer than they were with Barenboim at the end of his tenure -- when Bernard Haitink and Pierre Boulez agreed to take on responsibilities in the interregnum, before Muti was hired -- it makes sense for him to help fill the coming gap.
"I've worked in a few other places," said Alexander, the orchestra's president, "where it's much more common that the music director disappears, or they come back once every three or five years. Early in our discussions with Maestro Muti about the end of his term, we said we wanted to keep seeing him for a number of weeks each season, which I think he was happy to hear."
But while Muti will finish the musician hiring and tenure processes he has started, it's not yet clear who will oversee new auditions. He seems intent on maintaining some flexibility, partly in case he should want to scale back his commitment after his successor is announced: He said that he has told the orchestra's administration -- who knows how much in jest? -- "If you choose somebody that really I don't like, then I don't know if I come back."
His replacement is the least of it. It takes little prompting for Muti to bemoan a host of cultural problems: the decline in music education, players and conductors too lazy to properly prepare or respect the letter of the score, what he views as the increasing distance between classical music and mainstream society.
"Today," he said, bags heavy and dark under his eyes, "I think we are all lost."
But his melancholy melts away when he's on the podium, particularly in rehearsals that he leads with a kind of merry rigor, laughter snapping into a crisp downbeat. There was an endearing, oddball quality to the program he led near the end of May, telescoping between the intimate and the grand.
A Mozart divertimento was followed by William Kraft's raucous Timpani Concerto No. 1. After intermission came one of Respighi's lively and tender "Ancient Airs and Dances" suites, before his "Pines of Rome," a Muti party piece that also closed his first concert as music director -- in front of some 25,000 people in Millennium Park.
When you think of "Pines," you usually think of bombast. But the loudness comes very near the end; much of the piece is actually quite subtle, and the way to make the finale really potent is to handle the earlier stuff with atmospheric transparency.
Muti now stretches those earlier passages into a hazily dreamlike, almost out of time quality, building only slowly to triumph. In the first performance, a Thursday evening, the pianist treated a diaphanous cadenza with too much flamboyance; Muti, visibly displeased on the podium, took him aside later, and the following afternoon, the passage was properly light and watery. Any exaggeration turns this piece into kitsch; even the brassy conclusion, under Muti's baton, is shockingly elegant and clear.
"At the end of 'Pines of Rome,"' Smelser, the hornist, said, "most conductors are flailing around. The sheer volume, it's out of control. But he's never out of control, and he doesn't want us to be out of control."
"The orchestra knows exactly what I want," Muti said. "Many times, I don't even conduct -- or it seems that I don't conduct. It's been 13 years of wonderful musical experiences, and friendly. In 13 years, I haven't had a second of fight with them. It's been always like this."
Photograph Riccardo Muti, above, conducting the Chicago Symphony in May, after greeting the audience, below. He leaves his post this month, but with no successor named, his influence will linger. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN JENKINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR4.

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Philharmonic; NAICS: 711130; Name: Chicago Symphony Orchestra; NAICS: 711130

URL: https: //www.nytimes.com/2023/06/17/arts/music/muti-chicago-symphony-classical-music.html

Title: Stepping Down, Tiptoeing Back:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 18, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826906710

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stepping-down-tiptoeing-back/docview/2826906710/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

German Court Convicts Five Men for $100 Million Jewel Heist: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Schuetze, Christopher F

Publication info: Schuetze, Christopher F. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/german-court-convicts-five-men-100-million-jewel/docview/2814242260/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The trial brought to light the extraordinary story of how members of a notorious crime family broke into one of the most secure museums in Germany.
It was a cold, blustery morning in November 2019 when the city of Dresden, in eastern Germany, woke up to a shock.
Overnight, robbers had stolen a hundred-million dollar royal jewelry collection from the city's historic Green Vault, a set of basement suites in a castle that is now part of a museum.
The robbers left the vault floor covered with shards of broken glass and blanketed it with powder to throw forensic investigators off their scent.
On Tuesday, in a high-security Dresden courtroom, five men -- all from the same notorious Berlin crime family -- were convicted and sentenced for their role in the heist and the getaway. Prison time for Rabieh Remo, Wissam Remmo, Bashir Remmo and a set of twins, who were tried under youth guidelines because they were just 20 at the time of the heist and whose names are not publicized under German's privacy rules, ranges from 4 years and 4 months to 6 years and 3 months. The sixth defendant was acquitted because he had an alibi.
The men are part of a family dubbed the "Remmo Clan" by German tabloids and its members have faced charges on crimes such as welfare fraud, extortion and robbery.
During the trial, which lasted 15 months, the six defendants sometimes seemed like the crew of "Ocean's Eleven" and at other times like "Mr. Bean." But it was not just the accused who at times appeared inept. The trial shed a light on a German justice system that failed -- to an almost comical degree -- when it came to stopping determined criminals.
Despite a colorful history of crimes, the men were free to plan and execute their biggest heist. Most jarring, two of the men on trial were previously found guilty for the theft of a giant golden coin worth $ 4 million from a Berlin museum. They were in court for that crime -- but not in custody -- when the crew carried out the Green Vault heist.
But for all its faults, the epic trial that ended Tuesday did bring to light the extraordinary story of how a small group of committed perpetrators was able to break into one of the most secure museums in Germany and make off with the biggest score in the country's postwar history.
The Setup
Nearly a week before the heist, one of the men broke into a service room for the city power supply at the foot of the Augustus Bridge in Dresden. The police investigated, but found no cause for alarm.
Around the same time, the robbers cut a neat triangle out of an old metal grate covering a corner window of the Green Vault treasure chamber. They chose a window out of the sight of a nearby surveillance camera and separated a roughly 1.5-foot section of thick wrought metal from the grille, then stuck it back in place.
The tool the thieves wielded -- a pneumatic Jaws of Life used by rescue services to free people trapped in car wrecks -- is not available on the open market. Three months earlier, Wissam Remmo had broken into a specialized tool factory and stolen the device.
Police arrested him, and he faced a judge on a burglary charge just two days after the Dresden heist. The court had no idea how the tool had been used when it sentenced Remmo to two and a half years for the theft. A higher court later commuted his sentence.
The Heist
A little before 5 a.m. on the last Monday of November 2019, a homemade firebomb exploded in front of the electrical service room by the Augustus Bridge. That crude device, a cooking pot filled with a diesel gasoline mixture, knocked out streetlights in the immediate vicinity.
Two hundred yards away, two men entered the Green Vault through the pre-cut hole in the grate and began violently hacking away at cases displaying the jewels with hammers. The police later testified that the perpetrators hit the glass vitrines 56 times in just minutes.
Two private security guards watched the heist unfold on a closed-circuit video feed, but could do little but call the police because strict rules prohibited the unarmed men from confronting the thieves themselves. (The guards were initially suspected of playing some part in the robbery, but were quickly exonerated.)
Rabieh Remo, one of the two men in the Green Vault that morning, later testified that he was surprised how tough the nylon strings were that held the jewels in the cases. In his telling, this was the biggest obstacle the thieves faced.
They made off with 21 lavish pieces from late 18th and early 19th centuries that once belonged to local rulers, August the Strong and his son August III. The pieces they took included a ceremonial sword, brooches, pendants, headwear, necklaces, buttons and two diamond-encrusted epaulets. In total the jewelry held 4,300 diamonds and other valuable stones.
After the group loaded the loot into an Audi station wagon with stolen plates, they headed toward a parking garage on a residential street, several miles away. There, they jumped into a Mercedes and lit the Audi on fire. That fire spread to more than 60 cars in the garage, caused more than half a million euros in damage and endangered the life of a woman who was in the garage at the time.
The second getaway car went up in flames a month later.
The Investigation and Trial
It took months for a special police task force, named "Epaulet," to come up with solid leads, which started emerging when officers linked DNA found at the crime scene and the two burned getaway cars to members of the Remmo family. Another significant breakthrough came when the police found and questioned a man who had sold a batch of telephone SIM cards that were used during the robbery.
About a year after the break-in, nearly 1,700 police officers swooped on apartments, garages, a cafe and several cars during a raid in Berlin, and arrested three members of the crew. The others were arrested in the following months.
Their trial had been ongoing for almost a year when Rabieh Remo (who uses a different spelling of the family's last name) recanted previous testimony and told the court he had actually been in the vault during the robbery. His admission was part of a deal the defense had negotiated with the court: return the jewels and confess to the crimes, in return for capped prison sentences. Three others also admitted to their part in the crime; one of the men could prove he was in the emergency room on the night of the robbery, and another insisted until the very end that he was not part of the heist.
But the deal had some odd stipulations. While the defendants agreed to confess to their own crimes, they had secured the right not to incriminate any accomplices whom the police had not yet caught. They were also given time with their lawyers to prepare answers to prosecutors' questions.
Although the men on trial admitted to burglarizing the museum, they refused to admit significant aspects of the crime -- such as planning and leadership -- blaming unknown accomplices instead.
But the plea deal had a major upside: Most of the loot was returned. However, some important parts of the collection -- including a significant diamond, an elaborate brooch and an epaulet -- are still missing and others are damaged or oxidized.
Besides the jail time, the state is seeking nearly €89 million in damages, for the missing treasure and for harm to the museum.
The Family
Members of the Remmo family originally came to West Berlin from Lebanon in the 1980s and 1990s.
They are just one of a dozen or so family crime syndicates in Germany. But thanks to German tabloids and television shows, the Remmos enjoy an unusual amount of fame. Even if they are not the most successful, violent or prolific organized crime organizations in the country, until this trial they were perceived as being largely untouchable.
Mahmoud Jaraba, an academic who studies criminal families like the Remmos, said that those networks were known for their loyalty and unwillingness to deal with authorities -- which made the plea deal in the Green Vault case so striking. However, he added, because of a code of silence, it was very difficult for outsiders to know much about the real power structure within these families.
Because of the stipulations of the plea deal, however, the true story of who organized, coordinated and planned the heist might never come to light.
To Jaraba, however, one thing was clear: "I'm sure there were more people from inside the family involved."
Photograph Top, stolen items in the Green Vault heist in Dresden, Germany, included brooches, pendants, headwear, necklaces, buttons, a ceremonial sword and diamond-encrusted epaulets. Left, a defendant hides his face. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUERGEN KARPINSKI/DPA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; SEBASTIAN KAHNERT) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Automobiles; Theft; Crime; Jewelry; Diamonds; Plea bargaining; Criminal investigations; Robbery; Museums; Trials

Location: Germany

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/16/arts/design/green-vault-jewel-heist.html

Title: German Court Convicts Five Men for $100 Million Jewel Heist:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 17, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2814242260

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/german-court-convicts-five-men-100-million-jewel/docview/2814242260/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Russian Elites Still Obtaining Luxury Goods: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Troianovski, Anton; Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Troianovski, Anton; Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russian-elites-still-obtaining-luxury-goods/docview/2813106435/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: More than a year into Vladimir Putin's invasion, the web of global trade has adjusted to Western sanctions, with a network of middlemen sending cars, electronics and more to Russia.
On a dusty roadside on the outskirts of Dubai, Sohrab Fani is profiting from the West's response to the war in Ukraine: his shop installs seat heaters into cars being re-exported to Russia.
Twelve thousand heating pads languished in his warehouse for years, he said, until Russia's invasion and the resulting Western sanctions drove American, European and Japanese automakers out of the Russian market. Now, Russians import those cars via Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates -- and because cars shipped to the Middle East tend to be made for warm climates, accessories shops like Mr. Fani's are doing a brisk business outfitting them for winter weather.
"When the Russians came, I sold out," Mr. Fani said, so he ordered several thousand more seat-heating pads. "In Russia, they have sanctions. Here, there is not. Here, there is business."
More than a year into President Vladimir V. Putin's invasion, Western sanctions have damaged Russia's economy but not crippled it. The web of global trade has adjusted, allowing the Russian leader to largely deliver on a key promise: that the war would not drastically disrupt the lifestyle of consumption for Russian elites.
Russia is still importing coveted Western goods, enabled by a global network of middlemen.
In Moscow, the latest iPhones are available for same-day delivery for less than the retail price in Europe. Department stores still stock Gucci, Prada and Burberry. Car-sales sites list new Land Rovers, Audis and BMWs.
Just about all of the West's leading electronics, automobile and luxury brands announced last year that they were pulling out of Russia. Not all of their goods technically violate sanctions, but commerce with Russia became very difficult in the face of public outrage, pressure from employees, and restrictions on semiconductor exports and financial transactions.
Still, Russian demand for luxury items remains strong, and traders in Dubai and elsewhere are meeting it.
"The wealthy people always stay wealthy," said Ecaterina Condratiuc, the director of communications at a Dubai luxury car showroom who recently shipped a $ 300,000 Porsche Cayenne Turbo GT to a Russian dealership. The war, she added, "did not affect them."
In Dubai, buyers roam the showrooms of a sprawling auto market, haggling for Western cars -- the Dodge Ram is a recent favorite -- to purchase in cash and ship to Russia. Some are wealthy Russians buying vehicles for themselves, or small-time entrepreneurs looking to resell cars for a quick buck.
In other cases, Russian car dealerships, having lost their official affiliations with Western brands, are organizing their own imports, sometimes of hundreds of cars at a time.
The Russian analytics company Autostat reported that such indirect imports accounted for 12 percent of the 626,300 new passenger cars sold in Russia in 2022.
Electronics also take circuitous routes to the Russian market. In Dubai's old commercial neighborhood, Deira, electronics wholesalers have scrambled to recruit Russian-speaking staff.
"It's an open secret thing," said the owner of Bright Zone International General Trading L.L.C., a few storefronts down from a wholesaler of hair extensions. "Competition is very tough right now for Russia."
The owner, who requested that he only be identified by his last name, Tura, said he shipped hundreds of smartphones and laptops into Russia last year ahead of the holiday season. One potential buyer wanted a quote for 15,000 iPhones, Mr. Tura said, but apparently found a better deal elsewhere.
In another electronics shop nearby, an Afghan salesman, Abdullah Ahmadzai, said he had arrived in Dubai less than a year earlier, and had since learned enough Russian to negotiate with his Russian-speaking customers. Across the street, a man from Tajikistan, a former Soviet republic, said he and his colleague quickly found employment in a shop selling phones, laptops and drones.
"All the stores here are looking for people who speak Russian," he said. "We got lucky."
After many Western companies pulled out of Russia, Mr. Putin's government encouraged unauthorized imports of their goods from other countries. The Russian trade ministry published a list of dozens of companies whose products could be imported without their makers' consent, including Apple, Audi, Volvo and Yamaha.
"Whoever wants to bring in whatever luxury goods will be able to do it," Mr. Putin pledged last May.
One Russian report estimated that such "parallel imports" of laptops, tablets and smartphones totaled $ 1.5 billion last year. At the same time, Chinese cars and electronics have flooded onto the Russian market.
"You can bring over whatever you want, as long as you have money," said Pyotr Bakanov, an auto journalist based in Moscow. "Everyone who isn't lazy is bringing cars over."
The new trade routes largely pass through countries that have friendly relations with Moscow. Western analysts and officials have pointed to Turkey, China and former Soviet republics like Armenia and Kazakhstan as countries redirecting Western goods to Russia. They say that the Kremlin is taking advantage of those imports not just to mollify a populace used to foreign phones and cars, but also to source microchips for weapons used against Ukraine.
Mr. Bakanov, like other Russian car bloggers and journalists, has gotten into the business himself: he posts advertisements on the messaging app Telegram, offering to import cars "to order from any part of the world." He said that foreign car parts are also coming in via parallel import -- some are now available in Russia for lower prices than before the war, when those parts were sold by authorized dealers charging high premiums.
The workarounds have become so widespread that Russian car publications run regular reviews of cars made for foreign markets. The multimedia console in the Toyota Camry made for China only operates in Chinese, a popular auto website warned in February; the reviewer suggested holding a smartphone translating app up to the display.
In the Dubai car market one March evening, Sergei Kashkarov sat in the passenger seat of a parked gray Toyota, negotiating his latest deal: sending six Mitsubishi cars to a dealership in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk by ferry and truck, via Iran and Kazakhstan. Mr. Kashkarov had moved to Dubai from Siberia in 2021 and, after the invasion, established himself as a broker connecting Russian car dealers with Dubai suppliers.
"I've got plenty of work," he said. "I'm really not complaining."
The new trade patterns show up in international statistics; car exports from the European Union to Russia, for instance, dropped to about 1 billion euros in 2022, from 5 billion euros in 2021.
But E.U. exports to Kazakhstan rose nearly fourfold, to more than 700 million euros, and exports to the Emirates rose some 40 percent, to 2.4 billion euros. Armenia reports that its car imports more than quintupled to $ 712 million last year.
Western car companies generally deny knowledge of their cars going to Russia in any significant quantities, or of a spike in sales in the Emirates.
"We haven't seen any of that," said Jim Rowan, the chief executive of Volvo.
Paul Jacobson, the chief financial officer of General Motors, said, "I'm not aware of anything going to Russia."
Carmakers would have trouble tracking sales of vehicles through intermediaries, industry officials say. And U.S. officials responsible for enforcing restrictions have focused more on goods that can be used for military purposes.
The United Arab Emirates has been identified as a "country of focus" by U.S. officials for its role as a hub for products shipped to Russia in violation of sanctions. Electronics are of particular concern, officials say, because their chips can be repurposed for military use.
"The U.A.E. has strict measures in place governing import and export permits for dual-use materials to prevent their exploitation for military purposes," an Emirati official said in a statement.
Browsing in Dubai's auto market, a group of three men said they split their time between Russia and Armenia. They refused to say what they did for a living but they described the import and resale of cars as a lucrative side business; one said he had bought around 100 cars in the last year.
"Dubai is a three-in-one," a man who gave his name as Aik quipped. "You go on vacation, you buy a car for yourself, and you buy some to resell."
Anton Troianovski reported from Dubai and Jack Ewing from New York. Reporting was contributed by Vivian Nereim from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Ahmed Al Omran from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Oleg Matsnev from Berlin.
Anton Troianovski reported from Dubai and Jack Ewing from New York. Reporting was contributed by Vivian Nereim from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Ahmed Al Omran from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Oleg Matsnev from Berlin.
Photograph A Russian-speaking sales agent posed for social media content at a car dealership near Dubai, United Arab Emirates, top. Fitting seats with heaters before vehicles are shipped to Russia, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA DICENZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A1, A9.

Subject: Smartphones; Exports; Russian language; Sanctions; International trade; Electronics; Portable computers; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Exports Sanctions International trade Automobile dealers

Location: Riyadh Saudi Arabia; Russia; New York; United States--US; Armenia; Saudi Arabia; Dubai United Arab Emirates; Kazakhstan; China; Ukraine; United Arab Emirates

People: Putin, Vladimir

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/11/world/europe/dubai-russia-cars-export.html

Title: Russian Elites Still Obtaining Luxury Goods:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813106435

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russian-elites-still-obtaining-luxury-goods/docview/2813106435/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Norway Blazes Trail to an Electric Vehicle Future: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norway-blazes-trail-electric-vehicle-future/docview/2811127051/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: BAMBLE, Norway -- About 110 miles south of Oslo, along a highway lined with pine and birch trees, a shiny fueling station offers a glimpse of a future where electric vehicles rule.
Chargers far outnumber gasoline pumps at the service area operated by Circle K, a retail chain that got its start in Texas. During summer weekends, when Oslo residents flee to country cottages, the line to recharge sometimes backs up down the off-ramp.
Marit Bergsland, who works at the store, has had to learn how to help frustrated customers connect to chargers in addition to her regular duties flipping burgers and ringing up purchases of salty licorice, a popular treat.
"Sometimes we have to give them a coffee to calm down," she said.
Last year, 80 percent of new-car sales in Norway were electric, putting the country at the vanguard of the shift to battery-powered mobility. It has also turned Norway into an observatory for figuring out what the electric vehicle revolution might mean for the environment, workers and life in general. The country will end the sales of internal combustion engine cars in 2025.
Norway's experience suggests that electric vehicles bring benefits without the dire consequences predicted by some critics. There are problems, of course, including unreliable chargers and long waits during periods of high demand. Auto dealers and retailers have had to adapt. The switch has reordered the auto industry, making Tesla the best-selling brand and marginalizing established carmakers like Renault and Fiat.
But the air in Oslo, Norway's capital, is measurably cleaner. The city is also quieter as noisier gasoline and diesel vehicles are scrapped. Oslo's greenhouse gas emissions have fallen 30 percent since 2009, yet there has not been mass unemployment among gas station workers and the electrical grid has not collapsed.
Some lawmakers and corporate executives portray the fight against climate change as requiring grim sacrifice. "With E.V.s, it's not like that," said Christina Bu, secretary general of the Norwegian E.V. Association, which represents owners. "It's actually something that people embrace."
Norway began promoting electric vehicles in the 1990s to support Think, a homegrown electric vehicle start-up that Ford Motor owned for a few years. Battery-powered vehicles were exempted from value-added and import taxes and from highway tolls.
The government also subsidized the construction of fast charging stations, crucial in a country nearly as big as California with just 5.5 million people. The combination of incentives and ubiquitous charging "took away all the friction factors," said Jim Rowan, the chief executive of Volvo Cars, based in neighboring Sweden.
The policies put Norway more than a decade ahead of the United States. The Biden administration aims for 50 percent of new-vehicle sales to be electric by 2030, a milestone Norway passed in 2019.
A few feet from a six-lane highway that skirts Oslo's waterfront, metal pipes jut from the roof of a prefabricated shed. The building measures pollution from the traffic zooming by, a stone's throw from a bicycle path and a marina.
Levels of nitrogen oxides, byproducts of burning gasoline and diesel that cause smog, asthma and other ailments, have fallen sharply as electric vehicle ownership has risen. "We are on the verge of solving the NOx problem," said Tobias Wolf, Oslo's chief engineer for air quality, referring to nitrogen oxides.
But there is still a problem where the rubber meets the road. Oslo's air has unhealthy levels of microscopic particles generated partly by the abrasion of tires and asphalt. Electric vehicles, which account for about one-third of the registered vehicles in the city but a higher proportion of traffic, may even aggravate that problem.
"They're really a lot heavier than internal combustion engine cars, and that means that they are causing more abrasion," said Mr. Wolf, who, like many Oslo residents, prefers to get around by bicycle.
Another persistent problem: Apartment residents say finding a place to plug in their cars remains a challenge. In the basement of an Oslo restaurant recently, local lawmakers and residents gathered to discuss the issue.
Sirin Hellvin Stav, Oslo's vice mayor for environment and transport, said at the event that the city wants to install more public chargers but also reduce the number of cars by a third to make streets safer and free space for walking and cycling.
"The goal is to cut emissions, which is why E.V.s are so important, but also to make the city better to live in," Ms. Stav, a member of the Green Party, said in an interview later.
Electric vehicles are part of a broader plan by Oslo to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions to almost zero by 2030. All city buses will be electric by the end of the year.
Oslo is also targeting construction, the source of more than a quarter of its greenhouse gas emissions. Contractors bidding on public projects have a better chance of winning if they use equipment that runs on electricity or biofuels.
At a park in a working-class Oslo neighborhood last month, an excavator scooped out earth for a decorative pond. A thick cable connected the excavator to a power source, driving its electric motor. Later, an electric dump truck hauled away the soil.
Normally, the crew would have been required to stop working when the children in a nearby kindergarten napped. But the electric equipment was quiet enough that work could continue. (Children in Norway nap outdoors, weather permitting.)
Espen Hauge, who manages city construction projects, said he was surprised at how quickly contractors substituted hard-to-find electric equipment for diesel machinery. "Some projects that we thought were impossible or very difficult to do zero emission, we still got the tender for zero emission," he said.
Ms. Stav acknowledged what she called the hypocrisy of Norway's drive to reduce greenhouse gases while producing lots of oil and gas. Fossil-fuel exports generated revenue of $ 180 billion last year. "We're exporting that pollution," Ms. Stav said, noting that her party has called for oil and gas production to be phased out by 2035.
But Norway's government has not pulled back on oil and gas production. "We have several fields in production, or under development, providing energy security to Europe," Amund Vik, state secretary in the Norwegian Ministry of Petroleum and Energy, said in a statement.
Elsewhere, Norway's power grid has held up fine even with more demand for electricity. It helps that the country has abundant hydropower. Even so, electric vehicles have increased the demand for electricity modestly, according to calculations by the E.V. Association, and most owners are charging cars at night, when demand is lower and power is cheaper.
Elvia, which supplies electricity to Oslo and the surrounding area, has had to install new substations and transformers in some places, said Anne Nysæther, the company's managing director. But, she added, "we haven't seen any issue of the grid collapsing."
Nor has there been a rise in unemployment among auto mechanics. Electric vehicles don't need oil changes and require less maintenance than gasoline cars, but they still break down. And there are plenty of gasoline cars that will need maintenance for years.
Sindre Dranberg, who has worked at a Volkswagen dealership in Oslo since the 1980s, underwent training to service electric-vehicle batteries. Was it difficult to make the switch? "No," he said, as he replaced defective cells in a Volkswagen e-Golf.
Electric vehicles are creating jobs in other industries. In Fredrikstad, 55 miles south of Oslo, a former steel plant has become a battery recycling center. Workers, including some who worked at the steel plant, dismantle battery packs. A machine then shreds the packs to separate plastic, aluminum and copper from a black mass that contains crucial ingredients such as lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese and graphite.
The factory, owned by Hydrovolt, is the first of several the company plans to build in Europe and the United States. So far, there is not much to recycle, but eventually recycled batteries could greatly reduce the need for mining.
"If we can take the active material that already is within the product and create new ones, then we create a shortcut," said Peter Qvarfordt, the chief executive of Hydrovolt, a joint venture of the aluminum producer Norsk Hydro and Northvolt, a battery maker.
If anyone has to worry about their jobs, it's car dealers. The almost complete disappearance of gasoline and diesel vehicles from showrooms has reordered the industry.
The Moller Mobility Group has long been Norway's biggest auto retailer, with sales last year of $ 3.7 billion and dealerships in Sweden and the Baltic countries. Moller's Oslo outlet is filled with electric Volkswagens like the ID.4 and the ID.Buzz. There are only a few internal combustion cars.
Yet, Tesla is greatly outselling Volkswagen in Norway, grabbing 30 percent of the market compared to 19 percent for Volkswagen and its Skoda and Audi brands, according to the Road Information Council.
Sales of electric cars from Chinese companies like BYD and Xpeng are also growing. If that pattern repeats itself elsewhere in Europe and in the United States, some established carmakers might not survive.
Petter Hellman, the chief executive of Moller Mobility, predicted that traditional brands would regain ground because customers trust them and they have extensive service networks. "But clearly," he added, "Tesla has shaken the industry."
Circle K, which bought gas stations that had belonged to a Norwegian government-owned oil company, is using the country to learn how to serve electric car owners in the United States and Europe. The chain, now owned by Alimentation Couche-Tard, a company based near Montreal, has more than 9,000 stores in North America.
Guro Stordal, a Circle K executive, has the difficult task of developing charging infrastructure that works with dozens of vehicle brands, each with its own software.
Electric vehicle owners tend to spend more time at Circle K because charging takes longer than filling a gasoline tank. That's good for food sales. But gasoline remains an important source of revenue.
"We do see it as an opportunity," Hakon Stiksrud, Circle K's head of global e-mobility, said of electric vehicles. "But if we are not capable of grasping those opportunities, it quickly becomes a threat."
Photograph The air in Oslo is measurably cleaner, and the city's greenhouse gas emissions are down 30 percent since 2009. No mass unemployment has followed, but Sindre Dranberg, left, had to undergo training to service electric-vehicle batteries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID B. TORCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) This article appeared in print on page A1, A8.

Subject: Gasoline; Recycling; Greenhouse gases; Electricity; Electricity distribution; Emissions; Electric vehicles; Aluminum; Air pollution; Climate change; Bicycling; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile dealers

Location: Sweden; United States--US; Norway; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/08/business/energy-environment/norway-electric-vehicles.html

Title: Norway Blazes Trail to an Electric Vehicle Future:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 9, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811127051

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norway-blazes-trail-electric-vehicle-future/docview/2811127051/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Norway, the Electric Vehicle Future Has Already Arrived

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norway-electric-vehicle-future-has-already/docview/2811017082/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BAMBLE, Norway — About 110 miles south of Oslo, along a highway lined with pine and birch trees, a shiny fueling station offers a glimpse of a future where electric vehicles rule.
Chargers far outnumber gasoline pumps at the service area operated by Circle K, a retail chain that got its start in Texas. During summer weekends, when Oslo residents flee to country cottages, the line to recharge sometimes backs up down the off-ramp.
Marit Bergsland, who works at the store, has had to learn how to help frustrated customers connect to chargers in addition to her regular duties flipping burgers and ringing up purchases of salty licorice, a popular treat.
“Sometimes we have to give them a coffee to calm down,” she said.
Last year, 80% of new-car sales in Norway were electric, putting the country at the vanguard of the shift to battery-powered mobility. It has also turned Norway into an observatory for figuring out what the electric vehicle revolution might mean for the environment, workers and life in general. The country will end the sales of internal combustion engine cars in 2025.
Norway’s experience suggests that electric vehicles bring benefits without the dire consequences predicted by some critics. There are problems, of course, including unreliable chargers and long waits during periods of high demand. Auto dealers and retailers have had to adapt. The switch has reordered the auto industry, making Tesla the bestselling brand and marginalizing established carmakers like Renault and Fiat.
But the air in Oslo, Norway’s capital, is measurably cleaner. The city is also quieter as noisier gasoline and diesel vehicles are scrapped. Oslo’s greenhouse gas emissions have fallen 30% since 2009, yet there has not been mass unemployment among gas station workers, and the electrical grid has not collapsed.
Some lawmakers and corporate executives portray the fight against climate change as requiring grim sacrifice. “With EVs, it’s not like that,” said Christina Bu, secretary-general of the Norwegian EV Association, which represents owners. “It’s actually something that people embrace.”
Norway began promoting electric vehicles in the 1990s to support Think, a homegrown electric vehicle startup that Ford Motor owned for a few years. Battery-powered vehicles were exempted from value-added and import taxes and from highway tolls.
The government also subsidized the construction of fast charging stations, crucial in a country nearly as big as California with just 5.5 million people. The combination of incentives and ubiquitous charging “took away all the friction factors,” said Jim Rowan, the CEO of Volvo Cars, based in neighboring Sweden.
The policies put Norway more than a decade ahead of the United States. The Biden administration aims for 50% of new-vehicle sales to be electric by 2030, a milestone Norway passed in 2019.
A few feet from a six-lane highway that skirts Oslo’s waterfront, metal pipes jut from the roof of a prefabricated shed. The building measures pollution from the traffic zooming by, a stone’s throw from a bicycle path and a marina.
Levels of nitrogen oxides, byproducts of burning gasoline and diesel that cause smog, asthma and other ailments, have fallen sharply as electric vehicle ownership has risen. “We are on the verge of solving the NOx problem,” said Tobias Wolf, Oslo’s chief engineer for air quality, referring to nitrogen oxides.
But there is still a problem where the rubber meets the road. Oslo’s air has unhealthy levels of microscopic particles generated partly by the abrasion of tires and asphalt. Electric vehicles, which account for about one-third of the registered vehicles in the city but a higher proportion of traffic, may even aggravate that problem.
“They’re really a lot heavier than internal combustion engine cars, and that means that they are causing more abrasion,” said Wolf, who, like many Oslo residents, prefers to get around by bicycle.
Another persistent problem: Apartment residents say finding a place to plug in their cars remains a challenge. In the basement of an Oslo restaurant recently, local lawmakers and residents gathered to discuss the issue.
Sirin Hellvin Stav, Oslo’s vice mayor for environment and transport, said at the event that the city wants to install more public chargers but also reduce the number of cars by one-third to make streets safer and free space for walking and cycling.
“The goal is to cut emissions, which is why EVs are so important, but also to make the city better to live in,” Stav, a member of the Green Party, said in an interview later.
Electric vehicles are part of a broader plan by Oslo to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions to almost zero by 2030. All city buses will be electric by the end of the year.
Oslo is also targeting construction, the source of more than one-quarter of its greenhouse gas emissions. Contractors bidding on public projects have a better chance of winning if they use equipment that runs on electricity or biofuels.
At a park in a working-class Oslo neighborhood last month, an excavator scooped out earth for a decorative pond. A thick cable connected the excavator to a power source, driving its electric motor. Later, an electric dump truck hauled away the soil.
Normally, the crew would have been required to stop working when the children in a nearby kindergarten napped. But the electric equipment was quiet enough that work could continue. (Children in Norway nap outdoors, weather permitting.)
Espen Hauge, who manages city construction projects, said he was surprised at how quickly contractors substituted hard-to-find electric equipment for diesel machinery. “Some projects that we thought were impossible or very difficult to do zero emission, we still got the tender for zero emission,” he said.
Stav acknowledged what she called the hypocrisy of Norway’s drive to reduce greenhouse gases while producing lots of oil and gas. Fossil-fuel exports generated revenue of $180 billion last year. “We’re exporting that pollution,” Stav said, noting that her party has called for oil and gas production to be phased out by 2035.
But Norway’s government has not pulled back on oil and gas production. “We have several fields in production, or under development, providing energy security to Europe,” Amund Vik, state secretary in the Norwegian Ministry of Petroleum and Energy, said in a statement.
Elsewhere, Norway’s power grid has held up fine even with more demand for electricity. It helps that the country has abundant hydropower. Even so, electric vehicles have increased the demand for electricity modestly, according to calculations by the EV Association, and most owners are charging cars at night, when demand is lower and power is cheaper.
Elvia, which supplies electricity to Oslo and the surrounding area, has had to install new substations and transformers in some places, said Anne Nysæther, the company’s managing director. But, she added, “we haven’t seen any issue of the grid collapsing .”
Nor has there been a rise in unemployment among auto mechanics. Electric vehicles don't need oil changes and require less maintenance than gasoline cars, but they still break down. And there are plenty of gasoline cars that will need maintenance for years.
Sindre Dranberg, who has worked at a Volkswagen dealership in Oslo since the 1980s, underwent training to service electric-vehicle batteries. Was it difficult to make the switch? “No,” he said, as he replaced defective cells in a Volkswagen e-Golf.
Electric vehicles are creating jobs in other industries. In Fredrikstad, 55 miles south of Oslo, a former steel plant has become a battery recycling center. Workers, including some who worked at the steel plant, dismantle battery packs. A machine then shreds the packs to separate plastic, aluminum and copper from a black mass that contains crucial ingredients such as lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese and graphite.
The factory, owned by Hydrovolt, is the first of several the company plans to build in Europe and the United States. So far, there is not much to recycle, but eventually recycled batteries could greatly reduce the need for mining.
“If we can take the active material that already is within the product and create new ones, then we create a shortcut,” said Peter Qvarfordt, the CEO of Hydrovolt, a joint venture of the aluminum producer Norsk Hydro and Northvolt, a battery maker.
If anyone has to worry about their jobs, it’s car dealers. The almost complete disappearance of gasoline and diesel vehicles from showrooms has reordered the industry.
The Moller Mobility Group has long been Norway’s biggest auto retailer, with sales last year of $3.7 billion and dealerships in Sweden and the Baltic countries. Moller’s Oslo outlet is filled with electric Volkswagens like the ID.4 and the ID.Buzz. There are only a few internal combustion cars.
Yet, Tesla is greatly outselling Volkswagen in Norway, grabbing 30% of the market compared with 19% for Volkswagen and its Skoda and Audi brands, according to the Road Information Council.
Sales of electric cars from Chinese companies like BYD and Xpeng are also growing. If that pattern repeats itself elsewhere in Europe and in the United States, some established carmakers might not survive.
Petter Hellman, the CEO of Moller Mobility, predicted that traditional brands would regain ground because customers trust them and they have extensive service networks. “But clearly,” he added, “Tesla has shaken the industry.”
Circle K, which bought gas stations that had belonged to a Norwegian government-owned oil company, is using the country to learn how to serve electric car owners in the United States and Europe. The chain, now owned by Alimentation Couche-Tard, a company based near Montreal, has more than 9,000 stores in North America.
Guro Stordal, a Circle K executive, has the difficult task of developing charging infrastructure that works with dozens of vehicle brands, each with its own software.
Electric vehicle owners tend to spend more time at Circle K because charging takes longer than filling a gasoline tank. That’s good for food sales. But gasoline remains an important source of revenue.
“We do see it as an opportunity,” Hakon Stiksrud, Circle K's head of global e-mobility, said of electric vehicles. “But if we are not capable of grasping those opportunities, it quickly becomes a threat.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Asthma; Gasoline; Recycling; Greenhouse gases; Electricity; Electricity distribution; Emissions; Electric vehicles; Aluminum; Air pollution; Climate change; Bicycling; Nitrogen; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile dealers

Location: Sweden; United States--US; Norway; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Norwegian Americans; Metals And Minerals; Volvo Car Corp; Trees And Shrubs; Lithium (Metal); Recycling Of Waste Materials; Labor And Jobs; Fuel Emissions (Transportation); Infrastructure (Public Works); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Electric Light And Power; Norway; Restaurants; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Air Pollution; United States; Renault Sa; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; International Trade And World Market; Elections; Politics And Government; California; Ford Motor Co; Byd Co Ltd; Automobiles; Fugitives; Hiring And Promotion; Sustainable Living; Ab Volvo; Europe; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Shopping And Retail; Texas; Pollution; Bicycles And Bicycling; Alimentation Couche Tard Inc; Global Warming; Skoda Auto; Montreal (Quebec); Sweden; Oslo (Norway); Theater; Fuel Efficiency; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; AuTo; Automobile Service And Charging Stations; Volkswagen Ag; Natural Gas; Steel And Iron; Fredrikstad (Norway); Real Estate (Commercial); Green Party Of The United States; Batteries; Transit Systems; North America; Diesel Power; Tesla, Nikola; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Green Party (Sweden); American Jobs Plan (2021); Roads And Traffic; Renewcell Ab

Title: In Norway, the Electric Vehicle Future Has Already Arrived

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-08T18:34:13Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811017082

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norway-electric-vehicle-future-has-already/docview/2811017082/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Wagner Chief Appears To Drop Pullout Threat: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Macfarquhar, Neil; Bigg, Matthew Mpoke; Martínez, Andrés R

Publication info: Macfarquhar, Neil; Bigg, Matthew Mpoke; Martínez, Andrés R. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wagner-chief-appears-drop-pullout-threat/docview/2810767872/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Yevgeny V. Prigozhin said his mercenaries had been promised the ammunition and equipment they needed and would not have to withdraw from Russia's fight for the eastern Ukrainian city.
The head of Russia's Wagner mercenary group said on Sunday that he had been promised as much ammunition and weaponry as needed to continue the fight for the embattled Ukrainian city of Bakhmut, two days after he threatened to withdraw his fighters because Moscow's Ministry of Defense was failing to support them.
"We have been promised as much ammunition and armament as we need to keep going," the Wagner group's founder, Yevgeny V. Prigozhin, said in an audio statement released Sunday on his channel on the Telegram messaging app. There was no immediate comment from Russia's defense ministry.
On Friday, Mr. Prigozhin launched what was widely considered an effort at brinkmanship, by threatening to withdraw all of his fighters from Bakhmut, accusing Russia's military bureaucracy of starving him of the ammunition needed to fully capture the city. He had appeared in a gruesome video standing in front of row after row of what he said were freshly killed fighters, saying the ministry had caused "useless and unjustified" losses by failing to replenish the ammunition stocks.
While Mr. Prigozhin had complained about ammunition shortages and threatened to pull out of the city before, he had not previously given a date. This time, he named Wednesday -- the day after Russia's Victory Day holiday -- as the deadline for his forces to withdraw and "lick their wounds." The May 9 holiday celebrates the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany and has taken on particular resonance in Russia amid its war in Ukraine.
Gen. Oleksandr Syrsky, the commander of Ukraine's ground forces, wrote on Telegram on Sunday that he had visited troops in the area of Bakhmut, where he previously said Russia was employing "scorched-earth tactics." The shelling has intensified, he said, as Russia attempts to seize the city by Tuesday.
"Our task is to prevent this," he wrote.
Few military analysts expected Mr. Prigozhin to carry out his threat, especially because Russia's Ministry of Defense has no real alternative to the estimated 10,000 Wagner fighters fighting for control of the devastated city, where 70,000 people lived before the invasion.
A sliver of Bakhmut remains in Ukrainian hands, with the Russian Ministry of Defense claiming on Sunday that its forces had made further small advances. All the territory Russia has gained during months of grinding conflict in the city has also come at an enormous cost for both sides, including the deaths of thousands of fighters recruited by Wagner from Russian prisons and thrown right onto the battlefield. Mr. Prigozhin also said that Gen. Sergei Surovikin, the commander of the air force nicknamed "General Armageddon," had been appointed as his liaison with the military.
If confirmed, the appointment of Gen. Surovikin, who developed a close relationship with Wagner while commanding the Russian forces in Syria, could help address the deep-seated tension between the Wagner mercenary forces and the regular Russian Army, which has repeatedly interrupted Russian efforts to push forward in Ukraine.
Gen. Surovikin was appointed overall commander of the Russian forces in Ukraine last October, which was considered a sign that Mr. Prigozhin was gaining influence in the Kremlin. But he was then replaced three months later by Gen. Valery Gerasimov, the chief of staff of the Russian military.
Mr. Prigozhin openly cursed Gen. Gerasimov and Sergei Shoigu, Russia's minister of defense, in his expletive-laden video on Friday. Some analysts have attributed the tensions to rivalries for President Vladimir V. Putin's favor.
It is unclear whether the ammunition promised to Mr. Prigozhin can be deployed fast enough to change the battle for the city that started last August. In threatening to withdraw, Mr. Prigozhin stressed just how weary his men were of the fight.
But the chances of that seem remote. Ukraine is expected to soon begin a counteroffensive powered by fresh supplies of advanced Western military equipment, including tanks and armored personnel carriers that have already arrived in the country.
Here's what else is happening in Ukraine:
Drones targeted Crimea, Russia says
The Kremlin-installed authorities in Crimea said on Sunday that Ukraine had launched a wave of drones on the occupied peninsula overnight, the latest in a string of reported attacks on Russian-held territory ahead of an expected Ukrainian counteroffensive.
Mikhail Razvozhaev, the Russian-appointed governor of the port of Sevastopol, the largest city in Crimea and home to the Russian Navy's Black Sea Fleet, said that "more than 10" drones were involved in the attack. At least three were destroyed or crashed, he said on the Telegram messaging app, adding that there were no reports of damage.
Russia's Ministry of Defense said that a total of 22 Ukrainian drones had been detected over the Black Sea overnight. All of the drones were shot down or disabled, it said in a statement.
The claims could not be independently verified, and Ukrainian officials had not commented.
Crimea, which Russia illegally annexed in 2014, has been a key conduit for supplies and troops supporting Russia's occupying forces in southern Ukraine. Attacks and explosions there have picked up in recent months, which military analysts say could help set the stage for a long-anticipated counteroffensive that Ukrainian officials have said is in the final stages of preparation.
In just the past two weeks, refineries and military installations on the peninsula have been targeted. The Russian authorities have sought to downplay the attacks, but Ukraine's military has said that at least one of the attacks was in preparation for its counteroffensive.
A deadly attack in Kherson
Nine Ukrainian mine disposal experts were killed when they came under fire from Russian forces while they were working in the southern Kherson region, Ukrainian officials said.
President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his nightly address on Sunday that the victims had been killed on Saturday while they were "restoring safety for people."
The chief of the State Emergency Service, Serhiy Kruk, said in a post on Facebook on Saturday that the demining team had been fired on while working. Ukrainian demining experts have regularly been killed and wounded while attempting to clear mines, often laid by retreating Russian forces, but it is unusual for them to be targeted by enemy fire. It was not clear where in the region the incident took place.
Experts had removed 7,300 mines in the last week, the service said in a post on the Telegram social messaging app.
Russian writer in stable condition after car bombing
Zakhar Prilepin, a famous Russian novelist and nationalist ideologue, said on Sunday that both his legs were broken when his Audi S.U.V. blew up a day earlier in an apparent assassination attempt near the city of Nizhny Novgorod.
Mr. Prilepin, an outspoken supporter of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and volunteer fighter there sporadically since 2014, wrote on Telegram that he was driving the S.U.V. at the time of the explosion, which killed his friend and passenger. Russian state media previously reported that Mr. Prilepin was a passenger.
The bombing was the third such attack on a high profile hawk since last August; the other two were killed.
Mr. Prilepin wrote that the explosion was caused by a mine that detonated shortly after he'd dropped off his daughter. A second mine did not detonate, he added.
Russian law enforcement officials said a suspect with links to the Ukrainian special services had confessed to the bombing. Ukrainian officials denied any involvement.
Mr. Prilepin had been put on a Ukrainian wanted list for acting as both an administrator and a battalion commander for the separatist forces in the east, but Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraine's president, said in an televised interview that Mr. Prilepin had no influence on the course of the war.
"Ukraine does not resort to such excesses," he told the Ukrainian channel Freedom TV.
A Russian jet buzzes a Polish aircraft over the Black Sea.
A Russian Sukhoi Su-35 fighter plane buzzed a Polish Border Guard aircraft patrolling over the Black Sea, near Romanian air space, causing the Polish plane to lose altitude, Romanian officials said in a statement that was then confirmed by the E.U. border agency Frontex.
The unarmed Polish border plane, which was taking part in an operation focused on migration, illegal fishing and other matters, landed safely after Friday's encounter, the latest example of aggressive behavior by Russian fighter pilots over the Black Sea. In March, a Russian fighter jet collided with an unarmed U.S. reconnaissance drone, forcing the American aircraft down into the Black Sea.
In a statement, Romania's government said the Russian plane's "aggressive and dangerous maneuvers" created turbulence that made it difficult for the Polish crew to control the plane. The Russian government did not comment on the encounter.
Milana Mazaeva and Enjoli Liston contributed reporting.
Milana Mazaeva and Enjoli Liston contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Invasions; Aircraft; Mines; Appointments & personnel changes; Drones; Defense; Assassinations & assassination attempts; Ammunition

Business indexing term: Subject: Appointments & personnel changes

Location: Russia; Black Sea; Crimea; Ukraine

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/07/world/europe/russia-ukraine-crimea.html

Title: Wagner Chief Appears To Drop Pullout Threat:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 8, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810767872

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wagner-chief-appears-drop-pullout-threat/docview/2810767872/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Car Bombing Said to Target Russian Writer: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Macfarquhar, Neil; Troianovski, Anton

Publication info: Macfarquhar, Neil; Troianovski, Anton. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/car-bombing-said-target-russian-writer/docview/2810282476/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Zakhar Prilepin, who himself fought in eastern Ukraine, has long advocated an imperialist foreign policy by Moscow.
A car bombing on Saturday seriously wounded a prominent Russian nationalist and novelist, while killing his driver, state media reported, one of a series of internal attacks that are spreading a sense of disarray even as the country gears up to celebrate its most important annual military holiday.
The writer and Ukraine combat veteran, Zakhar Prilepin, was conscious with a broken leg and a concussion, in serious but not critical condition, according to state media reports. An explosive device was planted under Mr. Prilepin's Audi S.U.V. in the Russian city of Nizhny Novgorod, the state news agency Tass reported.
A Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, called it a "terrorist bombing" in a statement on the Telegram messaging app.
It was the second attack within a week that authorities have referred to as a "terrorist" incident, and it comes amid growing unease among Russia's military and political leaders as they brace for a Ukrainian counteroffensive in a war that has dragged on for 14 months. Other recent attacks have included two explosions on Wednesday over the Kremlin, which did little damage but carried heavy symbolic weight, plus blasts that ignited oil storage facilities and derailed at least two trains in Russia.
One man who officials said confessed to having links to the Ukrainian security services was arrested in the vicinity of the attack, Russia's Investigative Committee said in a statement. REN-TV, a channel close to the Russian security services, reported that a second man who also had possible links to Ukraine was in custody. The explosion was caused by a tank mine buried in the road, the television report said.
The blast was the third to target a leading Russian nationalist figure in the last year. In April, a bombing at a St. Petersburg cafe killed a popular pro-war blogger known as Vladlen Tatarsky. And a car bombing last August killed the television commentator Daria Dugina, a hawk and the daughter of another famous Russian nationalist.
The Foreign Ministry blamed the attack on Ukraine, with help from the United States and its European allies. Russia has said the same thing after each incident, including the previous two assassinations as well as the drone attack on the Kremlin, which Moscow called an effort to assassinate President Vladimir V. Putin.
The Ukrainian security service, S.B.U., said in a statement that it would neither confirm nor deny it had been involved in the car bombing, according to the state Ukrinform news agency.
Washington and Kyiv have denied involvement in all the attacks on Russian soil, although U.S. intelligence agencies eventually concluded that parts of the Ukrainian government authorized the attack that killed Ms. Dugina.
Russia's Investigative Committee said it had opened a criminal case into the Saturday attack and had sent investigators to the scene. A photograph shared by the committee on Telegram showed a white S.U.V. flipped upside down, with what appeared to be its front half blown off, next to a crater. A murky militant group that combines Ukrainians and Tartars from occupied Crimea claimed responsibility for the attack, as it has in the previous two targeted bombings, but presented no evidence.
Mr. Prilepin was a polemical figure, an accomplished novelist who won praise for his writing style and an ardent nationalist who bragged about his own combat experience in eastern Ukraine. The driver who died was also identified as a veteran of the fighting.
In January, Mr. Prilepin's political party, A Just Russia -- For Truth, announced that he had signed up with Russia's National Guard and been deployed to Ukraine. Last Thursday, Mr. Prilepin posted a picture of himself in military fatigues with a National Guard battalion that he said had spent four months on the battlefield in Ukraine. Critics have accused him of being an Instagram warrior.
Mr. Prilepin became one of Russia's most famous contemporary writers with a gritty novel describing the life of young soldiers in the Chechen wars and went on to organize fighters in the separatist regions of Ukraine.
"I led a combat unit that killed a large number of people," he boasted in a 2019 interview.
Ukraine's intelligence agency, the S.B.U., opened criminal proceedings against Mr. Prilepin in 2017 on suspicion of financing and participating in terrorism.
He has long advocated an imperialist foreign policy. In 2021, he was elected to Russia's Parliament -- a sign of the nationalists' rising stature in President Putin's system -- but gave up his seat. Russian media speculated that Mr. Prilepin might harbor presidential ambitions.
After Mr. Putin's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Mr. Prilepin's aggressively imperialist views, once on the edge of Russia's political mainstream, became the Kremlin's guiding ideology. On Telegram, where Mr. Prilepin has more than 300,000 followers, he was a vocal cheerleader of what the Kremlin calls the "special military operation."
After the car bombing in August that killed Ms. Dugina on her way home from a literary festival he hosted, Mr. Prilepin was quoted as saying that the West had "habituated" Ukraine to such actions.
Like Mr. Putin, Mr. Prilepin often bemoaned the collapse of the Soviet Union, saying that in the years afterward he felt like a stranger in his own country. His 2006 novel "Sankya" depicted the life of a disaffected gang leader who battled with the riot police.
In an introduction to the novel's English publication in 2013, Aleksei Navalny, the prominent jailed opposition figure who early in his career had formed a nationalist party with Mr. Prilepin and another politician, praised the book for capturing the mood of a generation caught between Communism, which they no longer remembered, and the corrupt capitalism in which they had no future.
"In the Russian literary tradition, the 'foresight of the writer' is very important, and Prilepin's foresight would make Tolstoy and Dostoevsky burn with envy," Mr. Navalny wrote. He said that the writer had "predicted the patterns of development of radical political groups and the government's strategy in combating them."
In 2015, Mr. Prilepin said that he felt his books did not reach a wide enough audience among youth, so he wrote and sang an entire album to try to capture both the mood of 1940s Soviet war music and his feelings about the fighting in eastern Ukraine.
Mr. Prilepin also endorsed the massive military celebrations every year on May 9, Victory Day, marking the triumph of the Soviet Union over Nazi Germany. Some cities have canceled celebrations this year over security concerns, but the major celebration in Moscow's Red Square is expected to go ahead.
"This is not simply a day in history for me but an event in the life of my family," Mr. Prilepin said in an interview in 2015.
Mr. Prilepin said he could recall the scar tissue from war wounds on one grandfather's shoulder and palm. Memorial days in Europe lack the same visceral feeling, he said. "The difference," he said, "is that here in this country it affected everybody."
Cassandra Vinograd, Milana Mazaeva and Anastasia Kuznietsova contributed reporting.
Cassandra Vinograd, Milana Mazaeva and Anastasia Kuznietsova contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A6.

Subject: Bombings; Committees; Security services; Imperialism; Terrorism; Military reserves; Politics; Intelligence services; Foreign policy

Business indexing term: Subject: Security services

Location: Russia; United States--US; Ukraine; Union of Soviet Socialist Republics--USSR

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/06/world/europe/russia-prilepin-bombing.html

Title: Car Bombing Said to Target Russian Writer:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810282476

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/car-bombing-said-target-russian-writer/docview/2810282476/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ex-Chief at Audi Will Plead Guilty To Role in Diesel Emissions Scandal: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack; Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Ewing, Jack; Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-chief-at-audi-will-plead-guilty-role-diesel/docview/2808814760/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Rupert Stadler, a former member of Volkswagen's management board, would be the highest-ranking executive to confess wrongdoing in a case that rocked the industry.
Rupert Stadler, the former chief executive of the automaker Volkswagen's Audi division, has agreed to plead guilty to charges in Germany related a vast emissions cheating scandal, becoming the highest-ranking executive to be convicted in the case, which changed the direction of the car industry.
A Munich state court said Wednesday that Mr. Stadler would accept a plea deal offered by a judge, which involves a suspended sentence of up to two years in exchange for a full confession and payment of a fine of 1.1 million euros, or $ 1.2 million.
Mr. Stadler, 60, who was also a member of Volkswagen's management board, was accused of allowing diesel cars made by Audi to remain on sale even after the parent company admitted in 2015 that millions of its vehicles were equipped with software designed to mask excess emissions.
The scandal cost Volkswagen tens of billions of dollars in fines, legal settlements and lawyers' fees and had a lasting impact on the auto industry. It inspired European lawmakers to impose much tighter limits on auto emissions, accelerating a transition from internal combustion engines to electric cars. Volkswagen became one of the first big German automakers to invest heavily in battery power, which executives saw as a way to restore the company's tarnished reputation.
Mr. Stadler has been on trial in Munich since September 2020. Testimony was nearing an end last week when Judge Stefan Weickert offered him the deal. In Germany, evidence is typically heard intermittently and trials can drag on for years. Judges sometimes offer defendants a plea agreement after concluding that the evidence against them is strong.
Wolfgang Hatz, who led motor development at Audi and Porsche and was tried alongside Mr. Stadler, pleaded guilty to related charges last week. A third defendant, Zaccheo Giovanni Pamio, a former Audi executive who was involved in designing emissions systems, also accepted a plea deal.
Mr. Stadler, who had insisted throughout the trial that he did nothing wrong, agreed to accept the plea deal during a hearing on Wednesday morning, the court said. Prosecutors in the case also support the deal.
Mr. Stadler is expected to make his confession in two weeks' time, allowing the trial to wrap up by late June, the court said.
The two men were among the most influential executives at Volkswagen, which continues to maintain in court that the cheating was the work of middle managers who hid the wrongdoing from the management board.
Mr. Stadler became chief of Audi, one of Volkswagen's most profitable brands, in 2007 after working as chief of staff to Ferdinand Piëch, the Porsche family scion who dominated Volkswagen for two decades beginning in the 1990s. Mr. Stadler left Audi in 2018 after spending several months in pretrial detention.
In 2017, Volkswagen pleaded guilty to fraud and other federal charges in Washington, after admitting that engineers rigged nearly 600,000 diesel cars sold in the United States to cheat on emissions tests. The cars were programmed to recognize when they were being tested on rollers in a lab. If so, the cars produced emissions that were compliant with regulations.
On the road, when regulators were not looking, the cars produced more toxic nitrogen oxides than a long-haul truck. Volkswagen diesels were not capable of consistently meeting emissions standards without suffering engine damage.
The software that enabled the cheating was originally developed by Audi, according to testimony and court documents, and adapted by Volkswagen engineers in 2007 after they had trouble getting their diesel engines to comply with United States standards. The illegal software was also deployed in Europe and other regions.
Volkswagen paid $ 4.7 billion in criminal and civil penalties as part of a settlement in 2017 with United States authorities. The company paid another $ 15 billion as part of a settlement with owners of VW, Audi and Porsche diesel cars.
The confessions of Mr. Stadler and Mr. Hatz mean that they will endure much lighter penalties than two lower-ranking executives, Oliver Schmidt and James Liang, who served multiyear prison sentences after being arrested in the United States and pleading guilty to charges.
A separate trial of several former Volkswagen managers is underway in Braunschweig. At least six others have been indicted in the United States but not arrested because they remained in Germany, which does not extradite its citizens.
Martin Winterkorn, the Volkswagen chief executive until he resigned in 2015 after the wrongdoing came to light, faces charges in the United States and Germany, but it is questionable whether he will ever face trial because of ill health. He has denied wrongdoing.
Volkswagen continues to suffer from the fallout of the scandal. The Securities and Exchange Commission is pursuing a civil case against the company, accusing it of defrauding bond investors by not fully informing them about the scope of the cheating. Volkswagen is contesting the suit, which is scheduled to go to trial next year.
Photograph Rupert Stadler, who led Audi from 2007 to 2018, in court Wednesday. He agreed to confess and will be fined $ 1.2 million. (POOL PHOTO BY LUKAS BARTH) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Fines & penalties; Plea bargaining; Scandals; Cheating; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Executives

Location: United States--US; Germany

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytime s.com/2023/05/03/business/diesel-emissions-scandal-audi-rupert-stadler.html

Title: Ex-Chief at Audi Will Plead Guilty To Role in Diesel Emissions Scandal:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2808814760

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-chief-at-audi-will-plead-guilty-role-diesel/docview/2808814760/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After a Long Absence, an Ambitious Return: [Review]

Author: Tsioulcas, Anastasia

Publication info: Tsioulcas, Anastasia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-long-absence-ambitious-return/docview/2805338960/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After decades away, the musicians, led by Kent Nagano, were back in the United States to perform works by Sean Shepherd, along with Beethoven and Brahms.
"Go big or go home" must have been the rallying cry for the Hamburg Philharmonic State Orchestra's debut at Carnegie Hall Saturday night. The last time this group appeared in the United States was more than 50 years ago, in 1967. So for this program, the Hamburg musicians, led by the conductor Kent Nagano, went large-scale ambitious, performing the world premiere of the American composer Sean Shepherd's 12- movement "An Einem Klaren Tag -- On a Clear Day" for cello, choruses and orchestra.
Here, that ambition demanded the participation of no fewer than five choruses culled from both Germany and New York: the Audi Jugendchorakademie (a youth chorus sponsored by the car manufacturer); Alsterspatzen (the children and youth choir of the Hamburg State Opera); the Dresdner Kreuzchor (a boys' choir that dates back to the 13th century); the Young ClassX ensemble (a youth choir from Hamburg); and the Young New Yorkers' Chorus. By my count, more than 200 instrumentalists and singers were jammed onto the Carnegie stage, plus Nagano and the soloist Jan Vogler on cello, for the nearly hourlong work.
The concert began with the music of a Hamburg native: Johannes Brahms. The orchestra performed his brief, sonically luminous and emotionally ambiguous "Schicksalslied" (Song of Destiny) with the Audi singers. Written in three movements with an ancient Greek-inspired text by Friedrich Hölderlin, "Schicksalslied" descends from radiant joyfulness into dark despair before resolving into something akin to solace. Nagano, deeply mindful of shape and phrasing, coaxed the strings into producing a warm glow that seemed to be lit from within.
Nagano and the orchestra continued that careful, deeply intentional sculpting of rhythm, articulation and dynamics in Beethoven's Symphony No. 8. In a work full of lithe charm, the Hamburg musicians, who also serve as the orchestra of the Hamburg State Opera, were able to showcase a more exuberantly playful side of their collective personality. After all, this is a symphony in which Beethoven, for all his callbacks to the structure and style of Haydn and Mozart, takes a radical tack: the Eighth lacks a slow movement, and dances at its own singular pace. Even with that whimsical spirit, the musicians created each moment with great deliberation.
That pinpoint precision subsided in the sweep of Shepherd's massive and earnest piece. Mostly using poetry by the German writer Ulla Hahn, Shepherd calls "On a Clear Day" both "a plea for compassion toward our fellow human" and an outcry against environmental calamity. Despite Vogler's presence, it's not a concerto per se; rather, Shepherd used the cello more as an actor who steps into a variety of roles to present occasional plaintive and virtuosic soliloquies against a colossal backdrop: here, a melancholic companion for the singers, trading a melody back and forth; there, channeling the spirit of a beleaguered Mother Earth.
Shepherd has a fantastic gift for orchestral color; for example, in the sixth movement, he juxtaposes a rapturous, lyrical passage for solo cello with winds, brass, harp, piano and percussion -- including glockenspiel and sleigh bells -- to glittering, mysterious effect. The piece is so expansive in both size and scope, however, that it sometimes felt like Nagano was less a conductor than the captain of a giant cruise ship, wrestling his oversized vessel into a modest port. The even keel at which he had led the Brahms and Beethoven had vanished.
Hamburg Philharmonic State Orchestra
Performed on Saturday at Carnegie Hall, Manhattan; carnegiehall.org.
Photograph Kent Nagano conducted the Hamburg Philharmonic State Orchestra at Carnegie Hall on Saturday, performing music by Brahms, Beethoven and Sean Shepherd. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS LEE) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Orchestras; Musical performances; Classical music

People: Nagano, Kent

Company / organization: Name: Hamburg Philharmonic; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/23/arts/music/review-hamburg-philharmonic-state-orchestra-carnegie-hall.html

Title: After a Long Absence, an Ambitious Return:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 25, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Performance Review

ProQuest document ID: 2805338960

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-long-absence-ambitious-return/docview/2805338960/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-25

Database: Global Newsstream C ollection

____________________________________________________________

If It's Domestic and Electric, China's Car Buyers Want to Own It: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/if-domestic-electric-chinas-car-buyers-want-own/docview/2801090118/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Domestic companies are now selling more vehicles than their multinational rivals, which have failed to keep up with Chinese consumers' demand for electric cars and S.U.V.s.
For years, foreign automakers in China had a bead on customers drawn to luxury brands, like the Cao family in Shanghai. Not anymore.
Ben Cao and his wife, Rachel, both 36, are trading down from two Porsches to one, a gasoline-fueled $ 290,000 Porsche 911 sports car, and buying their first electric vehicle, a $ 70,000 sport utility vehicle designed and manufactured in China by a company called Li Auto.
"If you're sitting in a Li Auto, the first feeling is of luxury," said Mr. Cao, a business consultant.
The rapid rise of Chinese electric carmakers like Li Auto, BYD, Nio and Xpeng Motors is the main preoccupation of the executives, engineers and designers arriving in Shanghai for the start of the city's auto show next Tuesday. The country is now the world's largest car market, and the home teams are routing multinational competitors that had until now mined the riches of China's giant pool of customers. Buyers like the Caos, and China's car companies, have embraced electric vehicles much more rapidly than almost anyone anticipated.
The rise of Chinese auto companies, often subsidized by local governments in cities where they have factories, is another illustration of the country's dominance in electric cars. China now manufactures and sells -- at home and abroad -- most of the world's electric cars. Its prowess extends to the entire value chain for electric cars: It makes almost all of the cars' electric motors and refines most of the chemicals used for lithium batteries. China even leads in developing what could be the next generation of technology, sodium batteries.
More than 80 percent of the electric cars sold in China last year were made by domestic automakers. Last autumn, they overtook multinational companies in the total number of gasoline-powered or electric cars sold each month.
"Multinationals' market share in China will likely continue to decrease due to the continuous development of Chinese automakers, especially in the electric car segment," said Stephen W. Dyer, a managing director in the Shanghai office of Alix Partners, a consulting firm.
As foreign automakers encounter problems in China, they are being pushed to shift more quickly to electric cars in Europe and the United States. The European Union and California want automakers to sell only zero-emission vehicles by 2035. And the Biden administration this week proposed emissions rules that would effectively require about two-thirds of new passenger cars sold in the United States to be electric by 2032 -- standards that some automakers have complained are too stringent.
With a couple of exceptions like Tesla, which China welcomed in 2018 for its technology, Beijing has compelled foreign companies to operate through joint ventures with Chinese automakers. Over the past four decades, multinational companies have trained an entire generation of Chinese auto engineers -- many of whom now work for highly competitive domestic rivals.
Today the number of cars sold by the foreign companies' joint ventures has plummeted as sales of gasoline-powered vehicles have shrunk and E.V.s have soared. Electric cars were almost a quarter of China's market last year, compared with less than 6 percent in the United States, and are expected to be over a third by the end of this year.
Ford Motor sold one million cars and light trucks in China in 2016 and in 2017 but barely 400,000 last year. Hyundai Motor, the South Korean giant, sold 1.8 million cars in China in 2016 and only 385,000 last year.
General Motors, which once vied with Germany's Volkswagen for market leadership, has lost nearly half its sales in China. G.M. would be faring even worse if not for Wuling, a joint venture in which G.M. has a 44 percent stake. Wuling sells ultra-cheap pickup trucks and microvans that cost $ 4,800 to $ 21,800 and have slender profit margins.
The market share of China's domestic car companies rose to 52 percent in the last quarter of 2022, from 47 percent the year before, largely on a huge rise in electric vehicle sales. The best-selling brand is BYD, in which Warren E. Buffett was an early investor. It now holds 10.3 percent of the car market, up from 2.1 percent four years ago and supplanting the Volkswagen brand as China's leader.
Volkswagen has also lost share, although less so than most foreign automakers. It plans to hold the worldwide introduction of its new ID.7 electric sedan in Shanghai on Monday.
A Volkswagen spokesman said the company had already doubled sales of its ID. series of electric cars last year, and was refusing to cut prices like some competitors just to maintain the number of cars sold. G.M. plans to introduce four new electric vehicles this year in China for its Buick, Cadillac and Chevrolet brands, and plans to convert more than half its factory capacity in China to electric cars by 2030.
Volkswagen is so concerned about the China market that it chartered two flights from Germany to Shanghai to bring board members of the Volkswagen Group and its VW, Audi and Porsche brands to the auto show, said a person familiar with the company's plans, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the plans were not public. Volkswagen declined to comment on its auto show travel arrangements.
Electric vehicle sales have grown more slowly this year after national subsidies for purchases expired at the end of December. Sales of gasoline-powered cars have plunged as a purchase tax on them has been restored after a suspension during the pandemic.
Tesla, which sells only electric cars, has had slower growth lately than Chinese electric car manufacturers, prompting the company to cut prices. That has set off a wave of discounting. Many consumers have waited to buy cars while watching whether electric car subsidies or purchase tax reductions will be restored.
"The weakness should be short term, because the weak sales were caused by the price chaos in March," said Cui Dongshu, the secretary general of the China Passenger Car Association.
Multinational companies including Volkswagen and G.M. had introduced electric cars that looked like their gasoline-powered models, with the hope of achieving a gradual transition. But Chinese consumers have gravitated instead toward the flashiest electric car exteriors and interiors available.
Mr. Cao, the Porsche enthusiast, dismisses most designs of multinational automakers as dull.
"They are far behind, no matter whether it is the U.S. ones and even the German ones," he said. "They don't even seem to be in the same age."
Car fashions change quickly in China. Mr. Cao said that he was active in a 350-member club of Chinese buyers of the Sport Turismo version of the Porsche Panamera sedan, and that he knew of at least 50 others who, like him, were buying the Li Auto L9 sport utility vehicle.
Unlike most large S.U.V.s on the global market, the L9 is electric. It has a small gasoline engine as a backup that can recharge the vehicle's hefty battery pack. But the engine does not provide power to move the vehicle itself.
Mr. Cao said he doubted he would need the backup engine. He plans to drive the S.U.V. for day trips to large parks on the outskirts of Shanghai, recharging it at home each night. Such outings have become popular in China with the end of "zero Covid" quarantines and municipal lockdowns. For longer travel to other cities, he said, he would fly or take one of China's many bullet trains.
Even the maneuvering for choice display locations at auto shows like the one in Shanghai has changed. Until the last several years, Chinese automakers vied to put their displays close to multinational brands like Mercedes-Benz, in the expectation that Chinese car buyers would flock to the multinational brands and might see the local brands along the way.
But now, it's Chinese electric car brands that other companies want to surround on the showroom floor, said Bill Russo, a former chief executive of Chrysler China. "You want to be closer to them -- the Chinese companies have the hottest battery electric vehicles," he said. "Foreign automakers don't have the same halo now."
Li You contributed research.
Li You contributed research.
Photograph Ben Cao, left, in an electric Li Auto L9 S.U.V. in a Shanghai showroom. Chinese E.V. makers like Li Auto, BYD, above right, Nio and Xpeng Motors are routing multinational competitors that had until now mined the riches of China's giant pool of customers.; An Xpeng showroom in Shanghai. Last year, domestic companies gained a majority of the Chinese auto market, at 52 percent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A7) This article appeared in print on page A1, A7.

Subject: Automobile shows; Joint ventures; Electric vehicles; Trucks; Alliances; Multinational corporations; Automobile industry; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Market shares; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Joint ventures Multinational corporations Automobile industry Automobile sales Subsidies Market shares Factories

Location: United States--US; Germany; China

Company / organization: Name: Li Auto Inc; NAICS: 336110; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/14/business/china-shanghai-auto-show.html

Title: If It's Domestic and Electric, China's Car Buyers Want to Own It:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 15, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801090118

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/if-domestic-electric-chinas-car-buyers-want-own/docview/2801090118/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China’s Car Buyers Have Fallen Out of Love With Foreign Brands

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-car-buyers-have-fallen-out-love-with/docview/2800939162/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SHANGHAI — For years, foreign automakers in China had a bead on customers drawn to luxury brands, like the Cao family in Shanghai. Not anymore.
Ben Cao and his wife, Rachel, both 36, are trading down from two Porsches to one, a gasoline-fueled $290,000 Porsche 911 sports car, and buying their first electric vehicle, a $70,000 SUV designed and manufactured in China by a company called Li Auto.
“If you’re sitting in a Li Auto, the first feeling is of luxury,” said Ben Cao, a business consultant.
The rapid rise of Chinese electric carmakers like Li Auto, BYD, Nio and Xpeng Motors is the main preoccupation of the executives, engineers and designers arriving in Shanghai for the start of the city’s auto show Tuesday. The country is now the world’s largest car market, and the home teams are routing multinational competitors that had until now mined the riches of China’s giant pool of customers. Buyers like the Caos, and China’s car companies, have embraced electric vehicles much more rapidly than almost anyone anticipated.
The rise of Chinese auto companies, often subsidized by local governments in cities where they have factories, is another illustration of the country’s dominance in electric cars. China now manufactures and sells — at home and abroad — most of the world’s electric cars. Its prowess extends to the entire value chain for electric cars: It makes almost all of the cars’ electric motors and refines most of the chemicals used for lithium batteries. China even leads in developing what could be the next generation of technology, sodium batteries.
More than 80% of the electric cars sold in China last year were made by domestic automakers. Last autumn, they overtook multinational companies in the total number of gasoline-powered or electric cars sold each month.
“Multinationals’ market share in China will likely continue to decrease due to the continuous development of Chinese automakers, especially in the electric car segment,” said Stephen W. Dyer, a managing director in the Shanghai office of Alix Partners, a consulting firm.
As foreign automakers encounter problems in China, they are being pushed to shift more quickly to electric cars in Europe and the United States. The European Union and California want automakers to sell only zero-emission vehicles by 2035. And the Biden administration this week proposed emissions rules that would effectively require about two-thirds of new passenger cars sold in the United States to be electric by 2032 — standards that some automakers have complained are too stringent.
With a couple of exceptions like Tesla, which China welcomed in 2018 for its technology, Beijing has compelled foreign companies to operate through joint ventures with Chinese automakers. Over the past four decades, multinational companies have trained an entire generation of Chinese auto engineers — many of whom now work for highly competitive domestic rivals.
Today the number of cars sold by the foreign companies’ joint ventures has plummeted as sales of gasoline-powered vehicles have shrunk and EVs have soared. Electric cars were almost a quarter of China’s market last year, compared with less than 6% in the United States, and are expected to be over a third by the end of this year.
Ford Motor sold 1 million cars and light trucks in China in 2016 and in 2017 but barely 400,000 last year. Hyundai Motor, the South Korean giant, sold 1.8 million cars in China in 2016 and only 385,000 last year.
General Motors, which once vied with Germany’s Volkswagen for market leadership, has lost nearly half its sales in China. GM would be faring even worse if not for Wuling, a joint venture in which GM has a 44% stake. Wuling sells ultra-cheap pickup trucks and microvans that cost $4,800 to $21,800 and have slender profit margins.
The market share of China’s domestic car companies rose to 52% in the last quarter of 2022, from 47% the year before, largely on a huge rise in electric vehicle sales. The best-selling brand is BYD, in which Warren Buffett was an early investor. It now holds 10.3% of the car market, up from 2.1% four years ago and supplanting the Volkswagen brand as China’s leader.
Volkswagen has also lost share, although less so than most foreign automakers. It plans to hold the worldwide introduction of its new ID.7 electric sedan in Shanghai on Monday.
A Volkswagen spokesperson said the company had already doubled sales of its ID. series of electric cars last year, and was refusing to cut prices like some competitors just to maintain the number of cars sold. GM plans to introduce four new electric vehicles this year in China for its Buick, Cadillac and Chevrolet brands, and plans to convert more than half its factory capacity in China to electric cars by 2030.
Volkswagen is so concerned about the China market that it chartered two flights from Germany to Shanghai to bring board members of the Volkswagen Group and its VW, Audi and Porsche brands to the auto show, said a person familiar with the company’s plans, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the plans were not public. Volkswagen declined to comment on its auto show travel arrangements.
Electric vehicle sales have grown more slowly this year after national subsidies for purchases expired at the end of December. Sales of gasoline-powered cars have plunged as a purchase tax on them has been restored after a suspension during the pandemic.
Tesla, which sells only electric cars, has had slower growth lately than Chinese electric car manufacturers, prompting the company to cut prices. That has set off a wave of discounting. Many consumers have waited to buy cars while watching whether electric car subsidies or purchase tax reductions will be restored.
“The weakness should be short term, because the weak sales were caused by the price chaos in March,” said Cui Dongshu, secretary-general of the China Passenger Car Association.
Multinational companies including Volkswagen and GM had introduced electric cars that looked like their gasoline-powered models, with the hope of achieving a gradual transition. But Chinese consumers have gravitated instead toward the flashiest electric car exteriors and interiors available.
Cao, the Porsche enthusiast, dismisses most designs of multinational automakers as dull.
“They are far behind, no matter whether it is the U.S. ones and even the German ones,” he said. “They don’t even seem to be in the same age.”
Car fashions change quickly in China. Cao said that he was active in a 350-member club of Chinese buyers of the Sport Turismo version of the Porsche Panamera sedan, and that he knew of at least 50 others who, like him, were buying the Li Auto L9 SUV.
Unlike most large SUVs on the global market, the L9 is electric. It has a small gasoline engine as a backup that can recharge the vehicle’s hefty battery pack. But the engine does not provide power to move the vehicle itself.
Cao said he doubted he would need the backup engine. He plans to drive the SUV for day trips to large parks on the outskirts of Shanghai, recharging it at home each night. Such outings have become popular in China with the end of “zero COVID” quarantines and municipal lockdowns. For longer travel to other cities, he said, he would fly or take one of China’s many bullet trains.
Even the maneuvering for choice display locations at auto shows like the one in Shanghai has changed. Until the last several years, Chinese automakers vied to put their displays close to multinational brands like Mercedes-Benz, in the expectation that Chinese car buyers would flock to the multinational brands and might see the local brands along the way.
But now, it’s Chinese electric car brands that other companies want to surround on the showroom floor, said Bill Russo, a former CEO of Chrysler China.
“You want to be closer to them — the Chinese companies have the hottest battery electric vehicles,” he said. “Foreign automakers don’t have the same halo now.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile shows; Joint ventures; Electric vehicles; Alliances; Trucks; Multinational corporations; Management consultants; Automobile industry; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Market shares; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Joint ventures Multinational corporations Management consultants Automobile industry Automobile sales Subsidies Market shares Factories

Location: New York; United States--US; Germany; China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Li Auto Inc; NAICS: 336110; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Hyundai Motor Co; European Union; General Motors; Buffett, Warren E; Fuel Efficiency; Volkswagen Ag; Buick Division Of General Motors Corp; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Fuel Emissions (Transportation); Business; Nio Ltd; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Air Pollution; United States; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; Consumer Behavior; Corporations; Politics And Government; California; Ford Motor Co; Restoration And Renovation; Byd Co Ltd; Automobiles; Europe; Germany; Quarantines; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); South Korea; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Shanghai (China); Globa l Warming; Lithium (Metal); Foreign Investments; Mercedes Benz; International Relations; Engines; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Cadillac Division Of General Motors Corp; AuTo; Factories And Manufacturing; Porsche Ag; Batteries; Guangzhou Xiaopeng Motors Technology Co Ltd (Xpeng Motors); Bradsher, Keith; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Matter Ventures; Luxury Goods And Services; Biden, Joseph R Jr; China

Title: China’s Car Buyers Have Fallen Out of Love With Foreign Brands

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-14T20:00:33Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800939162

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-car-buyers-have-fallen-out-love-with/docview/2800939162/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

End of Gas-Engine Camaro Opens a New Door for Muscle Cars: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lawrence, Ulrich

Publication info: Lawrence, Ulrich. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/end-gas-engine-camaro-opens-new-door-muscle-cars/docview/2795912760/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: G.M. is ending production of the classic American sports car, but executives say an electric version is likely. Corvette is already planning one.
From rubber-scented street races to the grass-roots drag strips and tracks of America, the Chevrolet Camaro never shied from a fight. But General Motors' stalwart muscle car, first rushed to showrooms in 1966 to take on Ford's phenomenally popular Mustang, could not outrun the onslaught of sport utility vehicles and the industry's sprint to electrification.
G.M. announced last month that it would retire the Camaro in January, when a final 2024 model rolls off a Michigan assembly line. With Dodge closing up shop on its Charger and Challenger this year -- even as it teases an electric muscle car -- the Mustang is the sole surviving member of Detroit's "pony car" band of coupes and convertibles.
"It is a bummer," said Aaron Link, G.M.'s global vehicle performance manager. "The Camaro did everything we wanted it to do, but the car market is just shrinking."
After a long Camaro hiatus, a retro-tinged 2010 comeback model, along with an equally nostalgic Mustang and Challenger, kicked off a new golden age of muscle cars that had enough power, handling and safety to shame any '60s forebear. A star turn as Bumblebee, the shape-shifting Camaro in the Transformers franchise, introduced the Chevy to new buyers.
Yet two-door cars of all types have become especially hard to spot in tall seas of S.U.V.s. Many coupe models have been retired. These days, not even two in 100 American buyers choose a sports car. Just four models account for more than 70 percent of all sports-car sales: the Camaro, Corvette, Mustang and Challenger. Last year, the Camaro found 24,652 buyers, down from 129,000 in 2010 and a high of nearly 283,000 in 1979.
"The Camaro has become this incredibly sophisticated vehicle, and it's a shame nobody is buying it," said Eddie Alterman, chief brand officer of Hearst Autos and former editor in chief of Car and Driver magazine. That's despite the current version's notoriously constricted outward sight lines.
He added: "You almost admire how it's so focused on driving dynamics that nothing else matters. The message is: Screw what's behind you. What's important is the next corner."
The modern Camaro shares its "Alpha" platform with Cadillac's best sports sedans, including G.M.'s groundbreaking magnetic suspensions, a technology now adopted by Ferrari, Audi and others. For top Camaros and Shelby Mustangs, the old "muscle car" term hardly applies: These are four-seat sports cars that can meet or beat any big-name European rival, including in the curves.
In 2017, the Camaro ZL1 1LE slayed more giants. The 650-horsepower showroom Camaro wound through Germany's benchmark, 12.9-mile Nürburgring circuit in 7 minutes, 16 seconds. That topped several supercars costing three or four times its $ 69,995 price, including a Ferrari 488 GTB. In 2021, Elon Musk sent his best, 1,020-horsepower Tesla Model S Plaid to the 'ring and tweeted an unverified lap time: 14 seconds slower than the humble Chevy, an eternity on track, despite the Tesla's enormous edge in electric horsepower.
The Camaro name isn't bound for the junkyard, with G.M. executives broadly hinting it will return. But as the automaker vows to phase out internal combustion models by 2035, analysts say, any reconstituted Camaro will surely be an E.V. or a hybrid.
Mr. Alterman believes automakers can find a small, yet meaningful, place for distinctive, high-personality cars. "Everything else is a potato-shaped minivan surrogate, or a pickup truck," he said.
If the Mustang was a playful ray of sunshine, the 1967 Camaro had a mean streak, especially in hopped-up V-8 editions. Pressed for the origin of the Camaro name, Pete Estes, the Chevy general manager at the time, quipped that it meant "a vicious animal that eats Mustangs." A media blitz included a touring stage play ("Camaro!") and a women's clothing line.
Priced from $ 2,466, and $ 240 more for a convertible, the Chevy scored a hit with 221,000 sales, well off the Mustang's 472,000. Just 602 of those were the Z/28 version, a virtual factory-built racecar from a Chevrolet that officially had no racing involvement. Most buyers had no clue this undercover ringer existed, but insiders could order one via a near-secret sequence of option selections that triggered Z/28 factory production.
With backdoor Chevy support, the team owner and newly retired Corvette racer Roger Penske and the driver Mark Donohue soon dominated the rollicking TransAm racecar series. Their first Penske Sunoco Z/28 went to a Pebble Beach auction in 2021 at an estimated value of $ 1.4 million to $ 2 million, but did not sell. A 1969 ZL1, a big-block V-8 unicorn that was one of only 69 built, fetched a Camaro-record $ 1.1 million at auction in 2021.
The beloved "tri-year" Camaros spanned 1967 to 1969, from the Summer of Love to Altamont. That's where Mark Stielow comes in.
"That car changed my life," Mr. Stielow said, the moment the Ford zealot drove his '66 Mustang into enemy territory as a G.M. engineering intern in 1988. His allegiances shifted, despite his wrecking a pair of old Camaros via youthful exuberance -- a common fate for Detroit's ill-handling monsters of yore.
Now G.M.'s director of motorsports competition engineering, Mr. Stielow sums up the Chevy's enduring appeal, as an egalitarian performance car with the options of more-practical engines or convertibles that drew female buyers as well.
"There was enough of a trunk and back seat to haul your junk in," he said. "It could be your everyday car, your track car -- the Swiss Army knife of muscle cars."
The fruitful association has made Stielow a household name in hot rodding. In his spare time, Mr. Stielow's fantastical, knee-weakening Camaro restorations -- with names like "Tri-Tip" and "the Mule" -- inspired an entire rodding movement called Pro Touring. Its disciples build and race American classics with modern mechanicals hidden beneath nostalgic skins.
Wearing his G.M. hat, Mr. Stielow is helping shepherd a new NASCAR Camaro to the 24 Hours of Le Mans for a June run from "Garage 56," LeMans's annual invitation to a single car for an exhibition of new tech. It's enough to make the French pop their corks: The modified Camaro stock car will be driven by Jimmie Johnson, the seven-time NASCAR champion; Jenson Button, the British former Formula 1 champion; and Mike Rockenfeller, a two-time Le Mans winner.
Mr. Stielow and loyal originalists prefer pioneering models. To others, including the late Bill Mitchell, a onetime G.M. chief designer, the 1970 successor was the masterpiece, a designer's car versus a committee creation. With its alluring tubular fenders and eggcrate grille, this radically new Camaro was heavily influenced by Ferrari 250 GTs.
"G.M. guys were totally obsessed with Ferraris of the time," Mr. Alterman said.
Fast times couldn't last. The first fuel-economy and emissions rules, and the 1973 oil embargo by Arab members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, choked the life from muscle cars. By 1975, the Camaro's strongest V-8 was a 155-horsepower peashooter.
If early Camaros were classic boomer rock, a third-generation model -- sold from 1982 to 1992 -- was '80s hair metal, more meretricious flash and dubious accessories than performance chops. Indignities peaked with the '82 "Iron Duke" Camaro, often cited as among the worst cars ever built, powered by a 90-horsepower four-cylinder engine. Even a Camaro IROC Z V-8 was a plasticized poseur.
Buyers didn't mind, snapping up 262,000 Camaros in 1984. The Camaro had become a patron saint of convenience-store parking lots, homecoming dances and extralegal adolescent high jinks, from stoplight races to the odd lawn job. When Bruce Springsteen sang of roads haunted by "burned-out Chevrolets," he surely had Camaros in mind more than its country-club sibling, the Corvette.
Not all cultural associations were kind. The Chevy's somewhat jockish, lunkhead vibe was easy to lampoon, notably in the Dead Milkmen's tart 1984 song, "Bitchin' Camaro."
A streamlined fourth-generation model for 1993 restored legitimacy, including via optional Corvette-based V-8s. Yet sales of those Camaros dwindled to 29,000 in 2001, and Chevy pulled the plug the next year.
Al Oppenheiser, the Camaro's chief engineer, who now develops General Motors E.V.s, likes to say everyone has a Camaro story. Here is mine. No, it's not the time my teenage pal Donnie wrecked his father's Camaro on Gratiot Avenue in Detroit, sending my head and a Burrito Supreme through the windshield. I walked away mostly unscathed. The burrito did not recover.
In 2017, I drove that stick-shift Camaro ZL1 1LE from Rick Hendrick's NASCAR garage in North Carolina to Daytona, Fla. My fast-paced pilgrimage culminated in an audience with the four-time NASCAR champ Jeff Gordon as he prepared to pace the Daytona 500 in history's fastest Camaro. Mr. Gordon owned a previous-generation Camaro, but told me that the race would be his first go-round in the new ZL1.
"I can remember when 300 horsepower was big for a street car, and now we're more than double that," Mr. Gordon said. With the Chevy drivers Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Chase Elliott in the front row behind his car, directly in his rearview mirror, Mr. Gordon's competitive juices clearly flowed.
"This Camaro is capable of pacing the race if it went green," he said with a wink.
The latest industry arms race, powered by batteries, finds some E.V.s zapping past 1,000 horsepower. In late March, I drove a fossil-fueled Corvette in California's high desert, where Mr. Link, the G.M. development driver, has also been putting finishing touches on the first electrified Corvette. The 2024 E-Ray goes on sale later this year. With 655 hybrid horsepower, it already accelerates faster than any Corvette in a 70-year history.
Camaro fans may shed a tear at the close of an epic, thrilling chapter, but it appears more a cliffhanger. Whatever form a future electric Camaro takes, vintage muscle-car fans won't know what hit them.
Photograph The 1967 Camaro SS 350. G.M. will retire the Camaro in January, but has hinted it may return as an E.V. or hybrid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENERAL MOTORS) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Reunions; Automobile racing

Location: United States--US; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing; NAICS: 711320, 813990; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/05/business/camaro-gm-electric-vehicles.html

Title: End of Gas-Engine Camaro Opens a New Door for Muscle Cars:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2795912760

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/end-gas-engine-camaro-opens-new-door-muscle-cars/docview/2795912760/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fueling Israel's Court Overhaul: 2 Libertarian Men From Queens: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Segal, David; Kershner, Isabel

Publication info: Segal, David; Kershner, Isabel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fueling-israels-court-overhaul-2-libertarian-men/docview/2788643827/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Kohelet, the once-obscure think tank that conceived and now champions a revamped court system, is an American import.
As part of a recent "national day of resistance," a group of army reservists wearing masks converged at the Jerusalem office of a think tank and blocked its front door with sandbags and coils of barbed wire. Outside, protesters led a noisy rally on the street, waving dozens of placards and sharing a microphone for a series of furious speeches.
"The Kohelet Policy Forum has been hiding in the shadows," shouted one speaker, standing atop a car. "But we are onto them and we will not let them win!"
For years, Kohelet quietly churned out position papers, trying to nudge government policy in a more libertarian direction. Then, starting in January, it became more widely known as one of the principal architects of the judicial overhaul proposal that has plunged Israel into a crisis over the future of its democracy.
If the plan succeeds, it would be a stunning victory not only for the think tank, but also for the people behind it: two guys from Queens.
The first is Moshe Koppel, a 66-year-old mathematics Ph.D. who grew up in New York City and moved to Israel in 1980. He founded Kohelet in 2012 and has been drafting laws and producing conservative and libertarian policy papers with a roster of full- and part-time scholars that now numbers 160.
"I don't want to sound arrogant," he told Ami, the Orthodox Jewish magazine, in 2019, "but in some sense we're the brains of the Israeli right wing."
Kohelet is not required to disclose the names of individual donors, and for years Mr. Koppel has artfully deflected questions about funding.
But one source of money is a second New Yorker: Arthur Dantchik, a 65-year-old multibillionaire who has donated millions to Kohelet, according to people familiar with his philanthropic giving. Mr. Dantchik did not return a call for comment.
American money and ideas, from the left and the right, have played a perennial role in Israeli politics. Today, American consultants are a regular feature of election campaigns, and the American-backed Israel Hayom, a free daily, is the country's most widely read newspaper.
Until recently, though, few knew that the nation-rattling judicial proposals were largely an American production.
The plan, which has spurred hundreds of thousands of Israelis to weekly protests, would give the government far greater control over the selection of judges and would make it harder for the Supreme Court to strike down laws passed by legislators.
Negotiations -- which included Kohelet -- for a scaled-back version of the judicial overhaul that would satisfy a broader swath of the Israeli public appear to be on hold for now. The government is determined to push at least some of its proposals through Parliament by early April.
Opponents of the overhaul say the courts are all that prevent Israel from devolving into a country with no checks on government power and no protection for minorities. Mr. Koppel and his allies believe that the real threat to Israeli democracy is activist judges, who, he says, now operate virtually without constraint.
While prominent in Israel's conservative political circles for years, Mr. Koppel has long worked to maintain the lowest possible profile.
"I discovered that you get an awful lot more done," he said during a rare interview at Kohelet's headquarters, "if you let others get the credit than if you insist on announcing your contribution."
Mr. Dantchik has for decades remained about as invisible as a man with his fortune can be. (With an estimated net worth of $ 7.2 billion, he ranks higher on the Forbes 400 list than marquee tycoons like Mark Cuban and George Soros.) He is a co-founder of Susquehanna International Group, a privately held financial powerhouse based in a sprawling campus in a suburb of Philadelphia, with offices around the world. The company has never taken outside investors, limiting what it is required to publicly disclose about the markets in which it operates -- options, equities, cryptocurrency and sports betting.
"They are as quiet as a church mouse," said Paul Rowady of Alphacution, a research group that specializes in proprietary trading firms. "These guys don't like to talk, and they don't want anyone in their business."
Mr. Dantchik's connection to Kohelet was first published in an article in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, based on reporting by the Democratic Bloc, a nonprofit in Israel that largely monitors right-wing groups.
"We spent months searching for a clue that would lead us back to the origins of the money," said Ran Cohen, the Democratic Bloc's director. "It was a maze of nontransparent U.S. companies and charities."
The group's research found that funds to Kohelet came through a 501(c)(3) called the American Friends of Kohelet Policy Forum, which was originally based in Bala Cynwyd, the same suburb as Susquehanna. Two of the nonprofit's directors are siblings of Mr. Koppel's wife. The third, Amir Goldman, works at Susquehanna Growth Equity, a private equity arm of Susquehanna International.
After Haaretz published its feature in March 2021, the Democratic Bloc found that the primary conduit for funds to Kohelet changed.
A financial disclosure report filed in Israel by the think tank in April of that year showed that more than 90 percent of its $ 7.2 million in income came from the Central Fund of Israel, a family-run nonprofit that gave $ 55 million to more than 500 Israel-related causes in 2021, according to its website.
In previous reporting on Kohelet's funding, Mr. Dantchik was cited as a key donor along with Jeff Yass. Mr. Yass is a fellow co-founder of Susquehanna and a prolific conservative political donor in the United States, whose net worth has been estimated by Forbes at $ 28.5 billion.
But people familiar with giving by both men say that Mr. Yass has never been a Kohelet donor. He declined to comment for this article.
Should some form of the Kohelet-backed overhaul go through, Mr. Koppel would become an improbable godfather of a refashioned Israeli judiciary.
He is not a jurist, nor did he attend law school. Before he turned to politics, his expertise was in machine learning. A lean man with a graying beard and the faint remnants of a New York City accent, Mr. Koppel lives in a relatively upscale settlement in the southern West Bank, one filled with plenty of transplanted Americans.
Even many of his detractors like him personally, and most open with this assessment: "He's brilliant." One of his gifts is describing policy positions and himself in ways that make both sound eminently reasonable.
"You see I'm wearing a kippah on my head, but I'm not in favor of religious coercion in any form whatsoever," he said in a recent interview on the podcast "Two Nice Jewish Boys."
He would not say how he connected with Mr. Dantchik, who grew up in Queens and graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton with a degree in biology.
Mr. Dantchik's roommate there was Mr. Yass, a friend from high school, and the men bonded over a shared love of poker. The two moved to Las Vegas after graduation to become professional players, with modest success. They later lugged briefcases filled with cash from a "consortium" of like-minded gamblers to make thousands of small bets on long-shot combinations at horse tracks. In 1985, at Sportsman's Park in Cicero, Ill., they won $ 764,284, then one of the largest payouts in U.S. racing history.
The pair started Susquehanna in 1987 with a handful of friends. Poker, with its emphasis on probabilities and decision making under pressure, remains so central to Susquehanna's culture that its monthslong training program includes weeks of Texas hold 'em.
Former Susquehanna employees say Mr. Dantchik is a much-admired character at the company -- quiet, warm and exceptionally generous.
"He ran the training program when I started," said Francis Wisniewski, who joined Susquehanna in 1993 and stayed for a decade. "My grandfather died during it, and he offered me his Audi so I could immediately drive four hours home. He said, 'I'll get a cab. You take my car.' That's just the way he was."
If money talks, it is apparently the only way Mr. Dantchik does so in public. What is revealed through his public philanthropy is a man interested in supporting mostly moderate Republican politicians; he has given approximately $ 850,000 to political candidates and groups that disclose their donors, according to data provided by OpenSecrets.org.
Far more of his giving is channeled through the Claws Foundation, which is based in Reston, Va., and lists Mr. Dantchik and Mr. Yass as two of its directors. The latest Claws Foundation filing with the I.R.S., which appears on ProPublica's site, reported that the organization gave $ 36 million to more than 30 recipients, including theaters, hospitals, synagogues, universities and libertarian think tanks, such as the Cato Institute and the Ayn Rand Institute.
On paper, Mr. Dantchik and Mr. Koppel have a lot in common, most notably a shared passion for Israel and libertarian ideas. Mr. Koppel became interested in politics 20 years ago, when he began attending hearings of the Knesset's Constitution, Law and Justice Committee. In the interview, Mr. Koppel said he quickly learned that busy and short-staffed politicians are grateful to anyone willing to help draft legislation.
"That person has a lot of power, the person with the pen," Mr. Koppel said.
After a couple of failed attempts to write a formal constitution for Israel, he formed Kohelet -- the word is Hebrew for Ecclesiastes, a book of the Bible -- more than a decade ago.
From the start, Kohelet targeted the ideological pillars erected by Israel's socialist founders. The group promotes the familiar libertarian menu of small government, free markets and privatized education. In recent decades, Israel has tiptoed away from regulation and emphasized its hospitality to entrepreneurs. But Kohelet's libertarianism feels to many Israelis like a foreign intrusion.
Describing Kohelet's policies as an American import, Gilad Kariv, a Labor Party lawmaker and former chairman of the Constitution, Law and Justice Committee, said, "They are not only getting their financial contribution from the United States, but they are bringing in an ultra-right-wing, neocon philosophy."
One of Kohelet's triumphs came in 2019, when the Trump administration announced that the United States did not consider Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank a violation of international law, reversing four decades of American policy. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered a video message at a Kohelet conference, thanking the group for supporting the new doctrine.
But the proposed judicial overhaul represents the height of Kohelet's influence. When Yariv Levin, the minister of justice, unveiled the plan in January, he publicly thanked the director of Kohelet's legal department for his assistance. Mr. Koppel would only say that Kohelet's judicial proposals were "similar" to the government's.
"We can't tell them what to do, only give advice," Mr. Koppel said. "They've taken some of the advice and rejected some of the advice."
Soon after this interview, tensions in Israel went from a simmer to a boil, and the president recently warned of the real possibility of civil war.
A speaker at the protest outside Kohelet this month denounced rich Americans who export ideas to Israel "straight from the delusional fringes of the Republican Party."
Onlookers tossed fake $ 100 bills in the air.
Alain Delaquérière contributed reporting.
Alain Delaquérière contributed reporting.
Photograph "In some sense we're the brains of the Israeli right wing," Moshe Koppel, Kohelet founder, has said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER FITOUSSI) (A10) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10.

Subject: Conservatism; Think tanks; Democracy; Politics; Libertarianism; Philanthropy; Nonprofit organizations; Judges & magistrates; Judiciary; Legal reform

Location: Israel; United States--US; New York City New York

People: Koppel, Moshe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/20/business/israel-judges-kohelet.html

Title: Fueling Israel's Court Overhaul: 2 Libertarian Men From Queens:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2788643827

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fueling-israels-court-overhaul-2-libertarian-men/docview/2788643827/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Who’s Behind the Judicial Overhaul Now Dividing Israel? Two New Yorkers.

Author: Segal, David; Kershner, Isabel

Publication info: Segal, David; Kershner, Isabel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-s-behind-judicial-overhaul-now-dividing/docview/2788935413/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
JERUSALEM — As part of a recent “national day of resistance,” a group of army reservists wearing masks converged at the Jerusalem office of a think tank and blocked its front door with sandbags and coils of barbed wire. Outside, protesters led a noisy rally on the street, waving dozens of placards and sharing a microphone for a series of furious speeches.
“The Kohelet Policy Forum has been hiding in the shadows,” shouted one speaker, standing atop a car. “But we are on to them and we will not let them win!”
For years, Kohelet quietly churned out position papers, trying to nudge government policy in a more libertarian direction. Then, starting in January, it became more widely known as one of the principal architects of the judicial overhaul proposal that has plunged Israel into a crisis over the future of its democracy.
If the plan succeeds, it would be a stunning victory not only for the think tank, but also for the people behind it: two guys from the New York City borough of Queens.
The first is Moshe Koppel, a 66-year-old mathematics doctorate who grew up in New York City and moved to Israel in 1980. He founded Kohelet in 2012 and has been drafting laws and producing conservative and libertarian policy papers with a roster of full- and part-time scholars that now numbers 160.
“I don’t want to sound arrogant,” he told Ami, an Orthodox Jewish magazine, in 2019, “but in some sense we’re the brains of the Israeli right wing.”
Kohelet is not required to disclose the names of individual donors, and for years, Koppel has artfully deflected questions about funding.
But one source of money is a second New Yorker: Arthur Dantchik, a 65-year-old multibillionaire who has donated millions to Kohelet, according to people familiar with his philanthropic giving. Dantchik did not return a call for comment.
American money and ideas, from the left and the right, have played a perennial role in Israeli politics. Today, U.S. consultants are a regular feature of election campaigns, and the American-backed Israel Hayom, a free daily, is the country’s most widely read newspaper.
Until recently, though, few knew that the nation-rattling judicial proposals were largely an American production.
The plan, which has spurred hundreds of thousands of Israelis to weekly protests, would give the government far greater control over the selection of judges and would make it harder for the Supreme Court to strike down laws passed by legislators.
Negotiations — which included Kohelet — for a scaled-back version of the judicial overhaul that would satisfy a broader swath of the Israeli public appear to be on hold for now. The government is determined to push at least some of its proposals through parliament by early April.
Opponents of the overhaul say the courts are all that prevent Israel from devolving into a country with no checks on government power and no protection for minorities. Koppel and his allies believe that the real threat to Israeli democracy is activist judges, who, he says, now operate virtually without constraint.
Though prominent in Israel’s conservative political circles for years, Koppel has long worked to maintain the lowest possible profile.
“I discovered that you get an awful lot more done,” he said during a rare interview at Kohelet’s headquarters, “if you let others get the credit than if you insist on announcing your contribution.”
Dantchik has for decades remained about as invisible as a man with his fortune can be. (With an estimated net worth of $7.2 billion, he ranks higher on the Forbes 400 list than marquee tycoons such as Mark Cuban and George Soros.) He is co-founder of Susquehanna International Group, a privately held financial powerhouse based in a sprawling campus in a suburb of Philadelphia, with offices around the world. The company has never taken outside investors, limiting what it is required to publicly disclose about the markets in which it operates — options, equities, cryptocurrency and sports betting.
“They are as quiet as a church mouse,” said Paul Rowady of Alphacution, a research group that specializes in proprietary trading firms. “These guys don’t like to talk, and they don’t want anyone in their business.”
Dantchik’s connection to Kohelet was first published in an article in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, based on reporting by the Democratic Bloc, a nonprofit in Israel that largely monitors right-wing groups.
“We spent months searching for a clue that would lead us back to the origins of the money,” said Ran Cohen, director of the Democratic Bloc. “It was a maze of nontransparent U.S. companies and charities.”
The group’s research found that funds to Kohelet came through a 501(c)(3) called the American Friends of Kohelet Policy Forum, which was originally based in Bala Cynwyd, the same suburb as Susquehanna. Two of the nonprofit’s directors are siblings of Koppel’s wife. The third, Amir Goldman, works at Susquehanna Growth Equity, a private equity arm of Susquehanna International.
After Haaretz published its feature in March 2021, the Democratic Bloc found that the primary conduit for funds to Kohelet changed.
A financial disclosure report filed in Israel by the think tank in April of that year showed that more than 90% of its $7.2 million in income came from the Central Fund of Israel, a family-run nonprofit that gave $55 million to more than 500 Israel-related causes in 2021, according to its website.
In previous reporting on Kohelet’s funding, Dantchik was cited as a key donor along with Jeff Yass. Yass is co-founder of Susquehanna and a prolific conservative political donor in the United States, whose net worth has been estimated by Forbes at $28.5 billion.
But people familiar with giving by both men say Yass has never been a Kohelet donor. He declined to comment for this article.
Should some form of the Kohelet-backed overhaul go through, Koppel would become an improbable godfather of a refashioned Israeli judiciary.
He is not a jurist, nor did he attend law school. Before he turned to politics, his expertise was in machine learning. A lean man with a graying beard and the faint remnants of a New York City accent, Koppel lives in a relatively upscale settlement in the southern West Bank, one filled with plenty of transplanted Americans.
Even many of his detractors like him personally, and most open with this assessment: “He’s brilliant.” One of his gifts is describing policy positions and himself in ways that make both sound eminently reasonable.
“You see I’m wearing a kippah on my head, but I’m not in favor of religious coercion in any form whatsoever,” he said in a recent interview on the podcast “Two Nice Jewish Boys.”
He would not say how he connected with Dantchik, who grew up in Queens and graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton with a degree in biology.
Dantchik’s roommate there was Yass, a friend from high school, and the men bonded over a shared love of poker. The two moved to Las Vegas after graduation to become professional players, with modest success. They later lugged briefcases filled with cash from a “consortium” of like-minded gamblers to make thousands of small bets on long-shot combinations at horse tracks. In 1985, at Sportsman’s Park in Cicero, Illinois, they won $764,284, then one of the largest payouts in U.S. racing history.
The pair started Susquehanna in 1987 with a handful of friends. Poker, with its emphasis on probabilities and decision-making under pressure, remains so central to Susquehanna’s culture that its monthslong training program includes weeks of Texas Hold ’em.
Former Susquehanna employees say Dantchik is a much-admired character at the company — quiet, warm and exceptionally generous.
“He ran the training program when I started,” said Francis Wisniewski, who joined Susquehanna in 1993 and stayed for a decade. “My grandfather died during it, and he offered me his Audi so I could immediately drive four hours home. He said, ‘I’ll get a cab. You take my car.’ That’s just the way he was.”
If money talks, it is apparently the only way Dantchik does so in public. What is revealed through his public philanthropy is a man interested in supporting mostly moderate Republican politicians; he has given approximately $850,000 to political candidates and groups that disclose their donors, according to data provided by OpenSecrets.org.
Far more of his giving is channeled through the Claws Foundation, which is based in Reston, Virginia, and lists Dantchik and Yass as two of its directors. The latest Claws Foundation filing with the IRS, which appears on ProPublica’s site, reported that the organization gave $36 million to more than 30 recipients, including theaters, hospitals, synagogues, universities and libertarian think tanks, such as the Cato Institute and the Ayn Rand Institute.
On paper, Dantchik and Koppel have a lot in common, most notably a shared passion for Israel and libertarian ideas. Koppel became interested in politics 20 years ago, when he began attending hearings of the Knesset’s Constitution, Law and Justice Committee. In the interview, Koppel said he quickly learned that busy and short-staffed politicians are grateful to anyone willing to help draft legislation.
“That person has a lot of power, the person with the pen,” Koppel said.
After a couple of failed attempts to write a formal constitution for Israel, he formed Kohelet — the word is Hebrew for Ecclesiastes, a book of the Bible — more than a decade ago.
From the start, Kohelet targeted the ideological pillars erected by Israel’s socialist founders. The group promotes the familiar libertarian menu of small government, free markets and privatized education. In recent decades, Israel has tiptoed away from regulation and emphasized its hospitality to entrepreneurs. But Kohelet’s libertarianism feels to many Israelis like a foreign intrusion.
Describing Kohelet’s policies as an American import, Gilad Kariv, a Labor Party lawmaker and former chair of the Constitution, Law and Justice Committee, said, “They are not only getting their financial contribution from the United States, but they are bringing in an ultra-right-wing, neocon philosophy.”
One of Kohelet’s triumphs came in 2019, when the Trump administration announced that the United States did not consider Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank a violation of international law, reversing four decades of U.S. policy. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered a video message at a Kohelet conference, thanking the group for supporting the new doctrine.
But the proposed judicial overhaul represents the height of Kohelet’s influence. When Yariv Levin, the minister of justice, unveiled the plan in January, he publicly thanked the director of Kohelet’s legal department for his assistance. Koppel would only say that Kohelet’s judicial proposals were “similar” to the government’s.
“We can’t tell them what to do, only give advice,” Koppel said. “They’ve taken some of the advice and rejected some of the advice.”
Soon after the Koppel interview, tensions in Israel went from a simmer to a boil, and the president recently warned of the real possibility of civil war.
A speaker at the protest outside Kohelet this month denounced rich Americans who export ideas to Israel “straight from the delusional fringes of the Republican Party.”
Onlookers tossed fake $100 bills in the air.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Conservatism; Think tanks; Democracy; Politics; Libertarianism; Philanthropy; Nonprofit organizations; Judges & magistrates

Location: New York City New York; United States--US; Israel; Jerusalem Israel

Identifier / keyword: New York City; Forbes Magazine; New Yorker; Binghamton (Ny); Theater; Colleges And Universities; West Bank; Rand, Ayn; Haaretz; War And Armed Conflicts; Kohelet Policy Forum (Nonprofit); United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Friendship; Conservatism (Us Politics); Cuban, Mark; Constitutions; International Trade And World Market; Democracy (Theory And Philosophy); Palestinians; Israel; Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; Segal, David; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Yass, Jeff; Illinois; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nonprofit Organizations; Cato Institute; Religion And Belief; Project Democracy; Propublica; Defense And Military Forces; Cards And Card Games; Dantchik, Arthur; Soros, George; United States Politics And Government; Discrimination; Israel Hayom; Israeli Settlements; Reston (Va); World; Law And Legislation; Think Tanks; International Relations; Education (K 12); Polls And Public Opinion; Libertarianism (Us Politics); Home Repairs And Improvements; Newspapers; Lee, Thomas H; Socialism (Theory And Philosophy); Labor And Jobs; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Cicero (Ill); Republican Party; Jerusalem (Israel); Philadelphia (Pa); Susquehanna International Group Llp; Magazines; Virginia; Internal Revenue Service; Trump, Donald J; Constitution (Us); Queens (Nyc); Supreme Court (Us); Las Vegas (Nev); Compensation For Damages (Law); Rand, Ayn, Institute; State University Of New York; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Koppel, Moshe; Gambling; State University Of New York At Binghamton; Campaign Finance

Title: Who’s Behind the Judicial Overhaul Now Dividing Israel? Two New Yorkers.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-20T21:15:15Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2788935413

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-s-behind-judicial-overhaul-now-dividing/docview/2788935413/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Extended Talks, Ford, Joining Red Bull, Is Back in Formula One: [Sports Desk]

Author: Panja, Tariq

Publication info: Panja, Tariq. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-extended-talks-ford-joining-red-bull-is/docview/2772216792/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The automaker and the drinks manufacturer are joining forces on a high-powered team in the world's most popular motorsports series.
The whispers of a merger between Ford and Red Bull had been the talk of Formula One for months, an intriguing story line in a competition that knows the value of drama.
The dance went on for months: Ford suggesting its interest in returning to the series was genuine, and Red Bull open about its discussions with multiple manufacturers.
On Friday, the companies confirmed the loudest rumors were true: Ford is re-entering into Formula One to partner with Red Bull, currently the series's top team and the employer of its reigning champion, Max Verstappen. In the new arrangement, the American automaker and the Austrian drinks company will join forces to design a new power unit ahead of the 2026 season, and try to extend Red Bull's dominance of the world's most popular motorsports series.
A flashy New York launch confirmed the partnership, a collaboration in which Red Bull will tap Ford's expertise in electric vehicles before a fundamental shift in engine rules for the 2026 season, when teams must become reliant on 100 percent sustainable fuels and, crucially for Ford at least, greater electric power.
That looming shift has already lured the German car manufacturer Audi to Formula One. Porsche, which held talks with Red Bull, is considering joining the fray, as is General Motors. Ford, which left Formula One almost two decades ago, also was looking for a way back in.
"We talked to a lot of people, we met with a lot of people," said Jim Farley, Ford's chief executive. "And as soon as we landed on Red Bull, we knew this was the right opportunity."
Formula One racecars are propelled by what is known as a power unit, a complex bit of machinery that includes several components, including an internal combustion engine, electrical motors and a turbocharger. Red Bull had previously been supplied with power units by Honda. But it found itself facing a crisis -- and needing a new partner -- when Honda announced in 2020 that it would leave Formula One within a year.
An agreement has since been reached for the team to continue sourcing Honda engines through 2025, but the shock of losing its supplier focused minds at Red Bull and ended with it resolving to build its own version rather than buy one produced by, or shared with, a rival like Mercedes.
"The Ford discussion felt right from the word go," Christian Horner, Red Bull's team principal, said in an interview. Both he and Farley declined to provide financial details of their new partnership.
Red Bull, which already employs hundreds of people for its Formula One team, had decided it would go into the engine-building business in 2021, poaching top engineers from rivals, notably Mercedes, and setting up a new division at its factory outside of London. That operation, Red Bull Powertrains, will become the locus of the partnership with Ford.
For Ford, the new rules, particularly the emphasis on electricity, and sustainable fuels, led it to revise its position on Formula One, a sport that it left after deciding it could not justify the business case to remain. Ford sold its Jaguar racing team to Red Bull in 2004.
Ford's new involvement -- and, Farley made clear, its potential costs -- would not be as intensive as those borne by typical teams backed by automobile manufacturers like Ferrari, Mercedes and Renault. "We wanted something more strategic," Farley said.
He called it "a very practical approach to entering Formula One," adding, "I can look my shareholders, the Ford family, in the eyes and say we're being very judicious and thoughtful."
Mark Rushbrook, the head of Ford's motorsports division, said Ford spoke with 10 Formula One teams, as well as some aspiring teams, before reaching a deal with Red Bull, a decision that executives said was eventually made late last year.
In an interview before the deal was announced, Farley and Horner both spoke of a division of labor and responsibilities, with Red Bull's expertise in aerodynamics seen as complementing Ford's research and multibillion-dollar investment in developing batteries and electric vehicles.
Farley described the partnership as "a tech exchange," but Ford may be just as excited about tapping into a new audience. Formula One, powered by new races and a popular Netflix series, is resurgent in the United States. Three races, including a first Las Vegas Grand Prix, will be held in America in the new season, more than in any other country on the globe-trotting circuit, and the hit Netflix series, "Drive to Survive," has made stars of its drivers and even team managers like Horner.
"I think, you know, that series opened America's eyes to Formula One," Horner said. "It brought in a whole new fan base, a young fan base, a much broader demographic, and it's had an incredible impact."
That is exactly the cohort that Farley and Ford are trying to reach as the company looks to grow its electric vehicle business. "We wanted to connect with a new group of consumers," he said.
Ford remains the third most successful engine manufacturer in Formula One history, but its last championship-winning car was driven by Michael Schumacher almost three decades ago. It knows as well as anyone how Formula One can be a fickle sport, and how rule changes can disrupt the fortunes of once dominant teams, a fact most recently confirmed by the decline of Mercedes, which until it was usurped by Red Bull in the last two seasons was the undisputed powerhouse of the grid.
By the time the Ford-Red Bull collaboration reaches the start line in 2026, the changes will be even more profound, and the potential for unpredictability even greater. Rushbrook described the changes as akin to "a clean slate" for the sport.
Red Bull's ability to ride rule changes successfully over its 16 years helped to shape Ford's thinking, he added. "They can really have the DNA or the culture inside their team to be the best and to be at the front," he said.
Farley said he is convinced that Ford has found a formula that works, one that will not require Ford to invest bottomless sums to keep pace with traditional factory-run teams.
"This is a different kind of wiring than the traditional relationships in the past," he said, "and one of the best bang for bucks in motorsports."
Photograph Red Bull's Christian Horner, left, and Ford's chief executive, Jim Farley, announced their new partnership on Friday in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Max Verstappen is the reigning Formula One champion driver. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Automobile racing; Automobiles; Collaboration; Teams; Electricity distribution; Electric vehicles; Seasons

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Verstappen, Max

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/03/sports/autoracing/ford-red-bull-formula-one.html

Title: After Extended Talks, Ford, Joining Red Bull, Is Back in Formula One:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772216792

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspaper s/after-extended-talks-ford-joining-red-bull-is/docview/2772216792/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When a Place of Pain Turns Into a Site of Celebration: [Society Desk]

Author: Wall, Alix

Publication info: Wall, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-place-pain-turns-into-site-celebration/docview/2770379215/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Courtney Archie impressed Ashleigh Lewis with her southern hospitality. A few years later, they chose to get married in New Orleans to honor Ms. Archie's ancestors.
In December 2020, Courtney Beneé Archie left New Orleans to accept a contract nurse anesthetist position in Newport News, Va. At the time, she was a nurse anesthetist at Our Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center in Baton Rouge, La.
Her work hours had been reduced and she needed a change of scenery.
It was the first year of Covid, so there were few places to go out. In April 2021, Ms. Archie, 39, decided to sign up for Tinder which is where, three days in, she connected with Kermit Ashleigh Lewis, 40.
It was a photo of Ms. Archie in hunting regalia that first caught his eye. "I hunt too, and don't meet a lot of women who hunt," said Mr. Lewis, who goes by Ashleigh. "She was glammed up in another picture, and I thought, 'How could she do both?"'
Mr. Lewis, who grew up in Chesapeake, Va., and lived in Virginia Beach at the time, is a chief gunner's mate with the U.S. Coast Guard, based in Portsmouth, Va. His first marriage ended in divorce.
Ms. Archie grew up in Baton Rouge and received her bachelor's of science degree from the School of Nursing at Southern University and A&M College in Baton Rouge, and a doctor of nursing degree at Louisiana State University in New Orleans. She now works as a nurse anesthetist at Riverside Regional Medical Center in Newport News, Va.
For a week, they texted from work by day and talked by phone late into the night, often while Ms. Archie cooked.
"We were like high school kids on the phone," Ms. Archie said.
A week later, they had their first date at Monsoon, an Indian restaurant in Hampton, Va.
"Ashleigh was so different, so attentive," said Ms. Archie, who is taking Mr. Lewis's name. "He really listened to me and asked me so many questions."
When Mr. Lewis dropped Ms. Archie off at her apartment, she brought him a to-go meal she had made: smothered turkey necks with gravy, rice and collard greens.
"That's something my mom would do," he said. "I thought, 'Who is this woman?' She had that southern charm I just love."
Both said they knew they had met "the one" that night.
She met his family a month later, and a month after that, he met hers. In August, Ms. Archie and her miniature husky, Piper, moved in with Mr. Lewis and his French bulldog, Stitch. "Dogs were hesitant, but they quickly realized neither was leaving," she said.
Mr. Lewis organized a trip to the Big Island of Hawaii for Valentine's Day 2022 with a couple who are good friends. On the beach outside of Lava Lava Beach Club, on the black lava rocks, he got down on one knee and proposed at sunset.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
Two months before their wedding, the couple, who now live in Chesapeake, took part in an Iroquoian wedding ceremony at the 30th annual Corn Harvest Powwow and School Day, an annual gathering for the Cheroenhaka Nottoway Indian tribe of Southampton County. The outdoor ceremony was officiated by the groom's father's cousin, County Chief Walt "Red Hawk" Brown on tribal land in Courtland, Va., to honor the groom's deceased father and his Native American ancestry.
They were married Jan. 7 in front of 250 guests at the New Orleans Board of Trade, an events space near the French Quarter, by Apostle Kenneth Diggs, a founder of the Eternity Community Church in Frisco, Texas, who is also the bride's uncle.
Ms. Archie had an unusual request when she approached their wedding planner, Audi Brown. She deliberately chose a venue near the French Quarter not for its famed joy and merriment, but because it was where many slaves were bought and sold.
"For that area to be filled with so much hurt and suffering and blood and tears," Ms. Archie said, "wouldn't it be nice to celebrate and bring love and happiness back to that place where our ancestors didn't have that?"
While Ms. Brown has a strict "no plantations" policy, a Black bride who said she wanted to "reclaim the narrative," was something new and different. She was persuaded.
Given the bride's love of Disney films -- "The Princess and the Frog" is a particular favorite of the couple -- the wedding had a fairy tale theme. (The fact that the groom shares a first name with a famous frog, too, isn't lost on them.)
"Ashleigh is so kind, and tries everything to make me happy," said Ms. Archie, adding, "Our wedding was truly like a fairy tale."
Photograph Courtney Archie, Ashleigh Lewis (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALVIN GAVION PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST13.

Subject: Weddings; Marriage

Location: Baton Rouge Louisiana; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/27/style/courtney-archie-ashleigh-lewis-wedding.html

Title: When a Place of Pain Turns Into a Site of Celebration:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 29, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770379215

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-place-pain-turns-into-site-celebration/docview/2770379215/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Carl H. Hahn, 96, Who Turned a Vehicle Into a Pop Culture Icon: [Biography]

Author: Roberts, Sam

Publication info: Roberts, Sam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carl-h-hahn-96-who-turned-vehicle-into-pop/docview/2766605790/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As president of Volkswagen of America, he pushed the "Think Small" ad campaign that helped create a counterculture icon.
Carl H. Hahn, a German automobile executive who helped transform the humble Volkswagen Beetle into an American pop culture icon and one of the most widely produced cars in the world, died on Jan. 14 at his home in Wolfsburg, Germany. He was 96.
His death was confirmed by his son Christopher Hahn.
During Mr. Hahn's chairmanship of Volkswagen A.G. from 1982 to 1993, the company graduated into a global brand and Europe's leading automobile manufacturer.
He was still in his 20s in 1954 when he wrote an unsolicited letter to Heinrich Nordhoff, the German engineer who had rejuvenated Volkswagen after World War II, persuading him to hire Mr. Hahn. He became Mr. Nordhoff's assistant and was quickly promoted to chief of export promotion.
Mr. Hahn served as president of New York-headquartered Volkswagen of America from 1959 to 1964, and upon arriving in the United States he toured the country in a VW minibus.
"I learned, apparently very fast, to get to know and understand America," he would later say. "And I loved it."
Volkswagen avoided the fins and other frills with which U.S. manufacturers larded their vehicles. Instead, the company and its advertising agency, Doyle Dane Bernbach, promoted "our philosophy of a car that doesn't change for the reason of change, only for the benefit of the consumer," Mr. Hahn said at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, in 2011.
The ads persuaded buyers to "Think Small," embrace their cars' distinctive rounded back and bug-eye headlights and to prioritize efficiency and quality control.
Coupled with marketable if less visible engineering advances, the campaign transmogrified the cookie-cutter low-cost automobile that Hitler commissioned as "the people's car" in the 1930s into the American counterculture's adorable "Love Bug."
"Without him, there would likely not have been the ads, which did indeed change the whole story for VW outside of Germany and did indeed result in a lot of needed healing, as well as revenue," Andrea Hiott, the author of "Thinking Small: The Long, Strange Trip of the Volkswagen Beetle" (2012), said in an email.
While Detroit was wooing car buyers with luxurious behemoths, the black-and-white Volkswagen ads featured a photograph of the diminutive Beetle surrounded by an expanse of white space that spoke simplicity.
The campaign, which Advertising Age ranked as one of the best of the 20th century, featured another ad with the headline "Lemon." It touted the car's reliability and resale value and boasted that Volkswagen had more quality-control inspectors in its factory than cars.
In 1964, at the age of 38, Mr. Hahn was named the parent company's head of sales and left the States, moving to Wolfsburg, the city in the Lower Saxony region of northern Germany where Volkswagen AG is headquartered.
Carl Horst Hahn Jr. was born on July 1, 1926, in Chemnitz, in eastern Germany, to Carl Hahn Sr. and Marie (Kusel) Hahn.
His father, Carl Sr., was a director of DKW, which became the world's biggest motorcycle maker in the 1920s; he was also a founder, in 1932, of Auto Union, a forerunner to what became Audi AG. He was a practicing Roman Catholic who joined the Nazi Party in 1933 after Hitler signed a treaty with the Vatican in which he guaranteed the church's rights in Germany, Carl Jr. wrote in a memoir.
Carl Jr. was drafted into the German military as a teenager and served in the tank corps. He was captured near the end of the war and released from a U.S.-run prisoner-of-war camp in late July 1945.
After the war, Carl Jr. left Communist East Germany.
He studied business administration at the University of Cologne and the University of Zurich and received his doctorate in economics from the University of Bern in Switzerland in 1952.
He worked as an economist for the European Productivity Agency (EPA) in Paris before he was hired by Volkswagen.
In 1972, the Beetle became the world's best-selling car. That same year, Mr. Hahn left the company to join Continental Gummi-Werke, Germany's biggest rubber and tire company, which he helped turn around as chief executive.
Returning to Volkswagen in 1982, he promoted the Golf model, and the company began producing vehicles in China, the former East Germany and Eastern Europe.
"The unification of the two German states puts an ultimate end to the chapter of horrors of World War II and its consequences," Mr. Hahn told The New York Times in 1990.
At the end of 1992, he left his job as chief executive but remained on the company's supervisory board until 1997.
Meanwhile, high labor costs in Germany and competition from less expensive Japanese and even American cars were challenging Volkswagen's pre-eminence.
After leaving his full-time role at the carmaker, Mr. Hahn was chairman of a Swiss engineering group and board member of numerous U.S. and European corporations. He also established the Carl and Marisa Hahn philanthropic foundation.
His wife, Marisa (Traina) Hahn, died in 2013.
In addition to his son Christopher, he is survived by two other sons, Carl and Peter; a daughter, Pia Hahn; 11 grandchildren; a brother, Wolfgang; and two sisters, Anna Renata Schulz and Caroline Odefey.
On numerous occasions, he predicted confidently that the automobile industry's future rested less on individual ownership of vehicles than on the provision of transportation through readily available self-driving cars and other means.
As the head of Volkswagen, he would routinely forsake his chauffeur-driven vehicle to try the latest models by his company and its competitors. As his son Christopher recalled, "He loved his Trabant convertible that he had at his summer house -- besides riding motorcycles on weekends, which my mom did not appreciate."
Photograph Carl H. Hahn next to a Volkswagen Beetle at the company's headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, in 1987; and in 1989. Volkswagen turned into a global brand during his chairmanship. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WOLFGANG WEIHS/PICTURE-ALLIANCE, VIA DPA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B11.

Subject: Automobile industry; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen of America Inc; NAICS: 336110, 423110, 423120; Name: Volkswage n AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/18/business/carl-hahn-dead.html

Title: Carl H. Hahn, 96, Who Turned a Vehicle Into a Pop Culture Icon:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 19, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2766605790

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carl-h-hahn-96-who-turned-vehicle-into-pop/docview/2766605790/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New Mexico Politician Accused of Arranging Attacks on Democrats: [National Desk]

Author: Romero, Simon; Feuer, Alan

Publication info: Romero, Simon; Feuer, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-mexico-politician-accused-arranging-attacks/docview/2766301892/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Solomon Peña, who lost his bid to become a New Mexico lawmaker, faces charges in a series of shootings. "He had a belief process that he was cheated," the Albuquerque police chief said.
ALBUQUERQUE -- A former Republican candidate accused of orchestrating attacks on the homes of Democratic rivals cited the need to threaten "civil war" to achieve political change, according to police investigators, who said that a bullet fired in the attacks passed close enough to a sleeping girl to leave her face spattered with dust.
The series of shootings in the wake of the November elections followed other episodes of politically motivated violence across the country in recent months -- including an attack on the husband of Speaker Nancy Pelosi -- and rattled the political establishment in New Mexico, where Democrats hold both chambers of the Legislature and the governor's office.
After seeking a state legislative seat, Solomon Peña, 39, a supporter of Donald J. Trump who attended the pro-Trump rally in Washington on Jan. 6, 2021, refused to concede, despite losing by 48 percentage points to an incumbent in a district that has long voted for Democrats. He was arrested on Monday in connection with the shootings at the homes of four Democratic officials.
"He had a belief process that he was cheated," Chief Harold Medina of the Albuquerque Police Department said in an interview on Tuesday. The police filed a rash of charges against Mr. Peña, including criminal solicitation, attempted aggravated battery, shooting at an occupied dwelling, shooting from a moving vehicle and conspiracy.
Mr. Peña, who previously served time in prison for burglary and other crimes, took part in at least one of the attacks himself, according to the criminal complaint in the case, trying to fire an AR-15 rifle at the home of Linda Lopez, a state senator.
"To me, it's very concerning, what his actions were, and the impact they could have on our democracy," Chief Medina said. "He was trying to intimidate some of our elected officials."
Mr. Peña, who was still being held on Tuesday, could not be reached for comment, and it was unclear whether a lawyer was representing him in the case.
It was uncertain how he came to be the only Republican candidate in the race for a state legislative seat representing part of Albuquerque. But when Democrats sought unsuccessfully to disqualify him from running, citing his criminal record, the spokesman for the state House Republican leadership came to Mr. Peña's defense, insisting he should be allowed to run.
He received 26 percent of the vote, against 74 percent for his opponent, election results showed.
In a statement, the Republican Party of New Mexico said "these recent accusations against Solomon Peña are serious, and he should be held accountable if the charges are validated in court. We are thankful that nobody was injured by his actions. If Peña is found guilty, he must be prosecuted to the full extent of the law."
Mr. Peña's arrest comes as concerns over political violence have grown after several high-profile incidents, including the attack on Paul Pelosi, a conspiracy to kidnap Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan and stalking charges filed against an armed man at the Seattle home of Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington.
Though there have been some notable attacks and threats of violence from people on the left, scholars who study political violence say that most violent episodes with a political bent in recent years have been committed by right-wing extremists or people with conservative-leaning views.
Mr. Peña was in the crowd listening to Mr. Trump's speech on Jan. 6, 2021, according to videos collected by online sleuths, before Trump supporters attacked the Capitol in a bid to keep the president in power. There is no evidence, however, that Mr. Peña passed into a restricted area on the Capitol grounds or entered the building with the mob that day.
Mr. Peña served nearly seven years in prison in New Mexico on charges including burglary and larceny, and then obtained an undergraduate degree in political science from the University of New Mexico after being released from prison in 2016.
In July 2010, according to a lawsuit later filed by Mr. Peña, he was working in the cafeteria of the Lea County Correctional Facility when another inmate threw butter at him, and then head-butted him. Mr. Peña responded by gouging the attacker's eyes before guards separated them.
In his lawsuit, Mr. Peña claimed that several prison officials had violated his constitutional rights because he was fired from his kitchen job after the fight. In self-filed, handwritten court papers, he complained that "prison authorities want the prisoners to be stupid, uneducated and uninformed (and drug-addicted) so they can do whatever they want to the prisoners."
A judge dismissed Mr. Peña's claims.
The shootings that appeared to target Democratic officials began on Dec. 4, when someone fired eight rounds at the home of Adriann Barboa, a Bernalillo County commissioner, according to the Albuquerque police. On Dec. 8, shots were fired at the home of State Representative Javier Martinez. Three days later, on Dec. 11, a shooting targeted the home of another Bernalillo County commissioner, Debbie O'Malley. Then came the shooting at Ms. Lopez's house in early January.
Ms. Lopez's 10-year-old daughter told her mother after the shooting that she believed "a spider woke her up by crawling on her face," the complaint against Mr. Peña said. But the next morning, Ms. Lopez found bullet holes in her home. "As it turned out, sheetrock dust was blown onto Linda's daughter's face and bed" from a bullet passing through her bedroom above her head, the complaint said.
Investigators said in a statement after Mr. Peña was arrested on Monday that they had tied him to the men accused of carrying out the shootings through text messages he sent them "with addresses where he wanted them to shoot at the homes," as well as cash he had paid them.
In a text message that Mr. Peña sent to one of the accused gunmen in November, according to the criminal complaint, he highlighted a cryptic passage from a book that was unknown to investigators: "It was only the additional incentive of a threat of civil war that empowered a president to complete the reformist project."
That quote appears in the book "Stuffing the Ballot Box," a 2002 academic study about fraud and electoral reform in Costa Rica.
The belief that civil war is unavoidable in the United States or should be fought to protect conservative values has been a frequent rallying cry on the right in recent months, if not for years.
Ms. Barboa, the county commissioner whose home was targeted in the first attack, said in an interview that Mr. Peña had come to her home after the election to argue that it had been fraudulent. "He was aggressive and seemed to be acting erratic," she recalled. "He claimed there was no way he could have lost, even though he lost in a landslide."
Ms. Barboa said that Mr. Peña seemed to have visited her home, as well as that of Ms. O'Malley, who was also targeted in the shootings, because the Bernalillo County Board of Commissioners certifies election results. The visit to Ms. Barboa's home took place before the commission certified the results, she said. (Mr. Peña ran against another Democrat, Miguel Garcia, who does not appear to have been the subject of an attack.)
Video surveillance from Ms. O'Malley's home later showed Mr. Peña driving by in a black 2022 Audi -- the same car that a witness saw speeding away from the area around Ms. O'Malley's home when it was targeted on Dec. 11, the criminal complaint said.
According to a confidential witness cited by the police in the complaint, Mr. Peña was not pleased that the first shooting attacks against Democratic officials were carried out late at night, when the politicians and their families might have already been sleeping, and that the shots were fired high up on the walls of some homes.
"Solomon wanted the shootings to be more aggressive," the witness told investigators, according to the complaint. In the last attack, on the home of Ms. Lopez on Jan. 3, the witness said that Mr. Peña and two gunmen he hired got into a stolen red truck and drove there.
Mr. Peña was armed with an AR-15, but the gun seems to have jammed and did not fire correctly, according to the complaint. But other shots fired from the vehicle struck Ms. Lopez's home, including the room where her daughter was sleeping.
Shortly after the attack, police officers arrested Jose Trujillo, 21, at a traffic stop and found that shell casings at Ms. Lopez's home matched a handgun confiscated from Mr. Trujillo, according to investigators. Officers detained Mr. Trujillo on an unrelated felony warrant and found that he was driving a car owned by Mr. Peña, the police said, adding that they also found a large amount of cash, more than 800 pills believed to be fentanyl and numerous firearms in the car.
Chief Medina said Mr. Peña could face more charges as the police continued their investigation. "We continue to peel off layers, like an onion," he said.
Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Solomon Peña was charged in shootings that targeted his political rivals in New Mexico. This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Witnesses; Politics; Automobiles; Violence; Election results; State elections; Prisons; Conspiracy; Civil war; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Burglary

Location: New Mexico; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/17/us/solomon-pena-new-mexico-shootings.html

Title: New Mexico Politician Accused of Arranging Attacks on Democrats:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766301892

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-mexico-politician-accused-arranging-attacks/docview/2766301892/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Cheered Trump on Jan. 6. Now He’s Accused of Targeting Political Rivals.

Author: Romero, Simon; Feuer, Alan

Publication info: Romero, Simon; Feuer, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-cheered-trump-on-jan-6-now-s-accused-targeting/docview/2766202044/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A former Republican candidate accused of orchestrating attacks on the homes of Democratic rivals cited the need to threaten “civil war” to achieve political change, according to police investigators, who said that a bullet fired in the attacks passed close enough to a sleeping girl to leave her face spattered with dust.
The series of shootings in the wake of the November elections followed other episodes of politically motivated violence across the country in recent months — including an attack on Paul Pelosi, husband of Speaker Nancy Pelosi — and rattled the political establishment in New Mexico, where Democrats hold both chambers of the Legislature and the governor’s office.
After seeking a state legislative seat, Solomon Peña, 39, a supporter of Donald Trump who attended the pro-Trump rally in Washington on Jan. 6, 2021, refused to concede, despite losing by 48 percentage points to an incumbent in a district that has long voted for Democrats. He was arrested on Monday in connection with the shootings at the homes of four Democratic officials.
“He had a belief process that he was cheated,” Chief Harold Medina of the Albuquerque Police Department said in an interview Tuesday. The police filed a rash of charges against Peña, including criminal solicitation, attempted aggravated battery, shooting at an occupied dwelling, shooting from a moving vehicle and conspiracy.
Peña, who previously served time in prison for burglary and other crimes, took part in at least one of the attacks himself, according to the criminal complaint in the case, trying to fire an AR-15 rifle at the home of Linda Lopez, a state senator.
“To me, it’s very concerning, what his actions were, and the impact they could have on our democracy,” Medina said. “He was trying to intimidate some of our elected officials.”
Peña, who was still being held on Tuesday, could not be reached for comment, and it was unclear whether a lawyer was representing him in the case.
It was uncertain how he came to be the only Republican candidate in the race for a state legislative seat representing part of Albuquerque. But when Democrats sought unsuccessfully to disqualify him from running, citing his criminal record, the spokesperson for the state House Republican leadership came to Peña’s defense, insisting he should be allowed to run.
He received 26% of the vote, against 74% for his opponent, election results showed.
In a statement, the Republican Party of New Mexico said “these recent accusations against Solomon Peña are serious, and he should be held accountable if the charges are validated in court. We are thankful that nobody was injured by his actions. If Peña is found guilty, he must be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.”
Peña’s arrest comes as concerns over political violence have grown after several high-profile incidents, including the attack on Paul Pelosi, a conspiracy to kidnap Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan and stalking charges filed against an armed man at the Seattle home of Rep. Pramila Jayapal of Washington.
Although there have been some attacks and threats of violence from people on the left, scholars who study political violence say that most violent episodes with a political bent in recent years have been committed by right-wing extremists or people with conservative-leaning views.
Peña was in the crowd listening to Trump’s speech on Jan. 6, 2021, according to videos collected by online sleuths, before Trump supporters attacked the Capitol in a bid to keep the president in power. There is no evidence, however, that Peña passed into a restricted area on the Capitol grounds or entered the building with the mob that day.
Peña served nearly seven years in prison in New Mexico on charges including burglary and larceny. After being released in 2016, he obtained an undergraduate degree in political science from the University of New Mexico.
In July 2010, according to a lawsuit later filed by Peña, he was working in the cafeteria of the Lea County Correctional Facility when another inmate threw butter at him, and then head-butted him. Peña responded by gouging the attacker’s eyes before guards separated them.
In his lawsuit, Peña claimed that several prison officials had violated his constitutional rights because he was fired from his kitchen job after the fight. In self-filed, handwritten court papers, he complained that “prison authorities want the prisoners to be stupid, uneducated and uninformed (and drug-addicted) so they can do whatever they want to the prisoners.”
A judge dismissed Peña’s claims.
The shootings that appeared to target Democratic officials began on Dec. 4, when someone fired eight rounds at the home of Adriann Barboa, a Bernalillo County commissioner, according to the Albuquerque police. On Dec. 8, shots were fired at the home of state Rep. Javier Martinez. Three days later, on Dec. 11, a shooting targeted the home of another Bernalillo County commissioner, Debbie O’Malley. Then came the shooting at Lopez’s house in early January.
Lopez’s 10-year-old daughter told her mother after the shooting that she believed “a spider woke her up by crawling on her face,” the complaint against Peña said. But the next morning, Lopez found bullet holes in her home. “As it turned out, sheetrock dust was blown onto Linda’s daughter’s face and bed” from a bullet passing through her bedroom above her head, the complaint said.
Investigators said in a statement after Peña was arrested on Monday that they had tied him to the men accused of carrying out the shootings through text messages he had sent them “with addresses where he wanted them to shoot at the homes,” as well as cash he had paid them.
In a text message that Peña sent to one of the accused gunmen in November, according to the criminal complaint, he highlighted a cryptic passage from a book that was unknown to investigators: “It was only the additional incentive of a threat of civil war that empowered a president to complete the reformist project.”
That quote appears in the book “Stuffing the Ballot Box,” a 2002 academic study about fraud and electoral reform in Costa Rica.
The belief that civil war is unavoidable in the United States or should be fought to protect conservative values has been a frequent rallying cry on the right in recent months, if not for years.
Barboa, the county commissioner whose home was targeted in the first attack, said in an interview that Peña had come to her home after the election to argue that it had been fraudulent. “He was aggressive and seemed to be acting erratic,” she recalled. “He claimed there was no way he could have lost, even though he lost in a landslide.”
Barboa said Peña seemed to have visited her home, as well as that of O’Malley, who was also targeted in the shootings, because the Bernalillo County Board of Commissioners certifies election results. The visit to Barboa’s home took place before the commission certified the results, she said. (Peña ran against another Democrat, Miguel Garcia, who does not appear to have been attacked.)
Video surveillance from O’Malley’s home later showed Peña driving by in a black 2022 Audi — the same car that a witness saw speeding away from the area around O’Malley’s home when it was targeted on Dec. 11, the criminal complaint said.
According to a confidential witness cited by the police in the complaint, Peña was not pleased that the first shooting attacks against Democratic officials were carried out late at night, when the politicians and their families might have already been sleeping, and that the shots were fired high up on the walls of some homes.
“Solomon wanted the shootings to be more aggressive,” the witness told investigators, according to the complaint. In the last attack, on the home of Lopez on Jan. 3, the witness said that Peña and two gunmen he hired got into a stolen red truck and drove there.
Peña was armed with an AR-15, but the gun seems to have jammed and did not fire correctly, according to the complaint. But other shots fired from the vehicle struck Lopez’s home, including the room where her daughter was sleeping.
Shortly after the attack, police officers arrested Jose Trujillo, 21, at a traffic stop and found that shell casings at Lopez’s home matched a handgun confiscated from Trujillo, according to investigators. Officers detained Trujillo on an unrelated felony warrant and found that he was driving a car owned by Peña, the police said, adding that they also found a large amount of cash, more than 800 pills believed to be fentanyl and numerous firearms in the car.
Medina said Peña could face more charges as the police continued their investigation. “We continue to peel off layers, like an onion,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Witnesses; Politics; Violence; Automobiles; Election results; State elections; Shootings; Civil war; Conspiracy; Prisons; Criminal investigations; Firearms; Burglary

Location: New Mexico; United States--US

People: Pelosi, Paul

Identifier / keyword: Feuer, Alan; Michigan; Pelosi, Nancy; Costa Rica; Romero, Simon; United States; House Of Representatives; Whitmer, Gretchen; Washington (State); Democratic Party; Albuquerque (Nm); Jayapal, Pramila; Bernalillo County (Nm); Pena, Solomon; Republican Party; Seattle (Wash); New Mexico; Trump, Donald J; Pelosi, Paul; Legislatures And Parliaments; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Children And Childhood; Speeches And Statements; Stalking (Crime); Text Messaging; Labor And Jobs; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Prisons And Prisoners; Project Democracy; Local Government; Colleges And Universities; Conservatism (Us Politics); Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Hiring And Promotion; Robberies And Thefts; Law And Legislation; Child Abuse And Neglect; Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); Storming Of The Us Capitol (Jan, 2021); Fringe Groups And Movements; Midterm Elections (2022); Threats And Threatening Messages; Discrimination; Police; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Politics And Government; Firearms; United States Politics And Government; State Legislatures

Title: He Cheered Trump on Jan. 6. Now He’s Accused of Targeting Political Rivals.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-17 @ 22:45

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: Genera l Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766202044

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-cheered-trump-on-jan-6-now-s-accused-targeting/docview/2766202044/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions