____________________________________________________________

Far Right Sees A Secret Agent, Not a Pop Star: [National Desk]

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/far-right-sees-secret-agent-not-pop-star/docview/2919993378/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The fulminations surrounding the world's biggest pop icon -- and girlfriend of Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce -- reached the stratosphere after Kansas City made it to the Super Bowl.
For football fans eager to see a new team in the Super Bowl, the conference championship games on Sunday that sent the Kansas City Chiefs and San Francisco 49ers back to the main event of American sports culture were sorely disappointing.
But one thing is new: Taylor Swift. And she is driving the movement behind Donald Trump bonkers.
The fulminations surrounding the world's biggest pop icon -- and girlfriend of Travis Kelce, the Chiefs' star tight end -- reached the stratosphere after Kansas City made it to the Super Bowl for the fourth time in five years, and the first time since Ms. Swift joined the team's entourage.
The conspiracy theories coming out of the Make America Great Again contingent were already legion: that Ms. Swift is a secret agent of the Pentagon; that she is bolstering her fan base in preparation for her endorsement of President Biden's re-election; or that she and Mr. Kelce are a contrived couple, assembled to boost the N.F.L. or Covid vaccines or Democrats or whatever.
"I wonder who's going to win the Super Bowl next month," Vivek Ramaswamy, the conspiratorial presidential candidate, turned Trump surrogate, pondered on social media on Monday. "And I wonder if there's a major presidential endorsement coming from an artificially culturally propped-up couple this fall."
The pro-Trump broadcaster Mike Crispi led off on Sunday by claiming that the National Football League is "rigged" in order to spread "Democrat propaganda": "Calling it now: KC wins, goes to Super Bowl, Swift comes out at the halftime show and 'endorses' Joe Biden with Kelce at midfield."
Other detractors of Ms. Swift among Mr. Trump's biggest fans include one of his lawyers, Alina Habba, one of his biggest conspiracy theorists, Jack Posobiec, and other MAGA luminaries like Laura Loomer and Charlie Kirk, who leads a pro-Trump youth organization, Turning Point USA.
The right has been fuming about Ms. Swift since September, when she urged her fans on Instagram to register to vote, and the online outfit Vote.org reported a surge of 35,000 registrations in response. Ms. Swift had embarked on a world tour that helped make her a billionaire. Gavin Newsom, the California governor, praised her as "profoundly powerful." And then Time magazine made her Person of the Year in December, kicking off another round of MAGA indignation.
The love story that linked her world with the N.F.L. has proved incendiary. Mr. Kelce's advertisements promoting Pfizer's Covid vaccine and Bud Light -- already a target of outrage from the right over a social media promotion with a transgender influencer, Dylan Mulvaney -- added fuel to that raging fire.
The N.F.L.'s fan base is huge and diverse, but it includes a profoundly conservative element that cheered on the star quarterback Aaron Rodgers's one-man crusade against Covid vaccines and jeered Black players who knelt during the national anthem. The league has long battled charges of misogyny, from the front offices of the Washington Commanders to multiple cases of sexual and domestic assault and abuse.
The Swift-Kelce story line, for some, has delivered a bruising hit to traditional gender norms, with a rich, powerful woman elevating a successful football player to a new level of fame.
Some of the Monday morning quarterbacking has been downright silly, including speculation that Ms. Swift is after Mr. Kelce for his money. (Her net worth exceeds $ 1 billion, a different universe than the athlete's merely wealthy status.)
Other accusations appear to be driven by fear and grounded in some truth, or at least in her command of her 279 million Instagram followers: that she has enormous influence, and has supported Democrats in the past. For much of her extensive music career, Ms. Swift avoided politics, but in 2018, she endorsed two Democrats in Tennessee, where she owns two homes: former Gov. Phil Bredesen, who was running for the Senate against then-Representative Marsha Blackburn, and Jim Cooper, a House member who has since retired.
"I always have and always will cast my vote based on which candidate will protect and fight for the human rights I believe we all deserve in this country," she wrote on social media. "I believe in the fight for L.G.B.T.Q. rights, and that any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender is WRONG."
She added, "I believe that the systemic racism we still see in this country towards people of color is terrifying, sickening and prevalent."
The alarm bells were loud enough to pull Mr. Trump into loudly backing Ms. Blackburn: "I'm sure Taylor Swift doesn't know anything about her," he said at the time, knowing all too well how influential Ms. Swift could be. "Let's say that I like Taylor's music about 25 percent less now, OK?"
He probably liked her even less in 2020 when she criticized his pandemic response, and then endorsed Mr. Biden.
While her early pop music may have mainly attracted teens and preteens, those fans have reached voting age, and her music has grown more sophisticated with the albums "Evermore" and "Folklore" to match her millennial roots and her fans' taste.
Much of the Swift paranoia has lurked on the MAGA fringes, with people like Ms. Loomer, the conspiracy theorist from Florida who declared in December that "2024 will be MAGA vs Swifties" and Mr. Kirk, who declared in November that Ms. Swift would "come out for the presidential election" after Democrats had another strong showing in an election that demonstrated the issue of abortion motivated voters to the polls.
"All the Swifties want is swift abortion," he said.
Then Swift-bashing reached Fox News in mid-January. The host Jesse Watters suggested the superstar was a Defense Department asset engaging in psychological warfare. He tied Ms. Swift's political voice with her boyfriend's Pfizer endorsement to the remarkable success of her Eras tour, which bolstered local economies and landed her on the cover of Time.
"Have you ever wondered why or how she blew up like this?" Mr. Watters wondered on air. "Well, around four years ago, the Pentagon psychological operations unit floated turning Taylor Swift into an asset during a NATO meeting."
Andrea Hailey, the chief executive of Vote.org, made the most of the Fox News criticism, saying the organization's partnership with Ms. Swift "is helping all Americans make their voices heard at the ballot box," adding that the star is "not a psy-op or a Pentagon asset."
But her appearance on the field with Mr. Kelce in Baltimore after the Chiefs beat the Ravens on Sunday, complete with a kiss and a hug, appears to have sent conservatives into a fit of apoplexy that may only grow in the run-up to Super Bowl LVIII in Las Vegas Feb. 11.
The feelings are so strong that Fox News ran a segment on Sunday lamenting that Ms. Swift's private "jet belches tons of CO2 emissions," showing a sudden awareness of the leading cause of global warming.
Mr. Ramaswamy said his Super Bowl conjecture was dead serious.
"What your kind of people call 'conspiracy theories,' I simply call an amalgam of collective incentives hiding in plain sight," he said.
The White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre stoked speculation still more by invoking the Hatch Act, which prohibits political actions by civil servants, in declining to answer whether Mr. Biden would be appearing with Ms. Swift.
"I'm just going to leave it there," she said Monday. "I'm not going to get into the president's schedule at all from here, as it relates to the 2024 elections."
The Trump campaign, which had initially planned to ignore the frenzy, dispatched Karoline Leavitt, a campaign spokeswoman, to dismiss concerns about a potential Biden endorsement.
"I don't think this endorsement will save him from the calamity" of his record, she said.
Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Photograph In September, Taylor Swift urged her fans to register to vote, yielding a surge of 35,000 registrations on the website Vote.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Ms. Swift and Travis Kelce after Kansas City's victory on Sunday. One theory says that their relationship is a stunt for ratings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SMITH/GETTY IMAGES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A13.

Subject: Professional football; Music; COVID-19 vaccines; Voter registration; Domestic violence; Television news; Social networks; Political parties; Political campaigns; State elections; Conspiracy; Presidential elections; Sexual orientation discrimination; Abortion; Endorsements

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Kansas City Missouri

People: Swift, Taylor; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120; Name: Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110; Name: Pfizer Inc; NAICS: 325412, 339113

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/30/us/politics/taylor-swift-travis-kelce-trump.html

Title: Far Right Sees A Secret Agent, Not a Pop Star:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 31, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2919993378

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/far-right-sees-secret-agent-not-pop-star/docview/2919993378/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Taylor Swift, Travis Kelce and a MAGA Meltdown

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taylor-swift-travis-kelce-maga-meltdown/docview/2919909150/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For football fans eager to see a new team in the Super Bowl, the conference championship games Sunday that sent the Kansas City Chiefs and San Francisco 49ers back to the main event of American sports culture were sorely disappointing.
But one thing is new: Taylor Swift. And she is driving the movement behind Donald Trump bonkers.
The fulminations surrounding the world’s biggest pop icon — and girlfriend of Travis Kelce, the Chiefs’ star tight end — reached the stratosphere after Kansas City made the Super Bowl for the fourth time in five years, and the first time since Swift joined the team’s entourage.
The conspiracy theories coming out of the Make America Great Again contingent were already legion: that Swift is a secret agent of the Pentagon; that she is bolstering her fan base in preparation for her endorsement of President Joe Biden’s reelection; or that she and Kelce are a contrived couple, assembled to boost the NFL or COVID-19 vaccines or Democrats or whatever.
“I wonder who’s going to win the Super Bowl next month,” Vivek Ramaswamy, the conspiratorial presidential candidate, turned Trump surrogate, pondered on social media Monday. “And I wonder if there’s a major presidential endorsement coming from an artificially culturally propped-up couple this fall.”
Pro-Trump broadcaster Mike Crispi led off Sunday by claiming that the NFL is “rigged” in order to spread “Democrat propaganda”: “Calling it now: KC wins, goes to Super Bowl, Swift comes out at the halftime show and ‘endorses’ Joe Biden with Kelce at midfield.”
Other detractors of Swift among Trump’s biggest fans include one of his lawyers, Alina Habba, one of his biggest conspiracy theorists, Jack Posobiec, and other MAGA luminaries such as Laura Loomer and Charlie Kirk, who leads a pro-Trump youth organization, Turning Point USA.
The right has been fuming about Swift since September, when she urged her fans on Instagram to register to vote, and the online outfit Vote.org reported a surge of 35,000 registrations in response. Swift had embarked on a world tour that helped make her a billionaire. Gavin Newsom, the California governor, praised her as “profoundly powerful.” And then Time magazine made her Person of the Year in December, kicking off another round of MAGA indignation.
The love story that linked her world with the NFL has proved incendiary. Kelce’s advertisements promoting Pfizer’s COVID vaccine and Bud Light — already a target of outrage from the right over a social media promotion with a transgender influencer, Dylan Mulvaney — added fuel to that raging fire.
The NFL’s fan base is huge and diverse, but it includes a profoundly conservative element that cheered on star quarterback Aaron Rodgers’ one-man crusade against COVID vaccines and jeered Black players who knelt during the national anthem. The league has long battled charges of misogyny, from the front offices of the Washington Commanders to multiple cases of sexual and domestic assault and abuse.
The Swift-Kelce story line, for some, has delivered a bruising hit to traditional gender norms, with a rich, powerful woman elevating a successful football player to a new level of fame.
Some of the Monday morning quarterbacking has been downright silly, including speculation that Swift is after Kelce for his money. (Her net worth exceeds $1 billion, a different universe than the athlete’s merely wealthy status.)
Other accusations appear to be driven by fear and grounded in some truth, or at least in her command of her 279 million Instagram followers: that she has enormous influence, and has supported Democrats in the past. For much of her extensive music career, Swift avoided politics, but in 2018, she endorsed two Democrats in Tennessee, where she owns two homes: former Gov. Phil Bredesen, who was running for the Senate against then-Rep. Marsha Blackburn, and Jim Cooper, a House member who has since retired.
“I always have and always will cast my vote based on which candidate will protect and fight for the human rights I believe we all deserve in this country,” she wrote on social media. “I believe in the fight for LGBTQ rights, and that any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender is WRONG.”
She added, “I believe that the systemic racism we still see in this country towards people of color is terrifying, sickening and prevalent.”
The alarm bells were loud enough to pull Trump into loudly backing Blackburn: “I’m sure Taylor Swift doesn’t know anything about her,” he said at the time, knowing all too well how influential Swift could be. “Let’s say that I like Taylor’s music about 25% less now, OK?”
He probably liked her even less in 2020 when she criticized his pandemic response and then endorsed Biden.
While her early pop music may have mainly attracted teens and preteens, those fans have reached voting age, and her music has grown more sophisticated with the albums “Evermore” and “Folklore” to match her millennial roots and her fans’ taste.
Much of the Swift paranoia has lurked on the MAGA fringes, with people like Loomer, the conspiracy theorist from Florida who declared in December that “2024 will be MAGA vs Swifties” and Kirk, who declared in November that Swift would “come out for the presidential election” after Democrats had another strong showing in an election that demonstrated the issue of abortion motivated voters to the polls.
“All the Swifties want is swift abortion,” he said.
Then Swift-bashing reached Fox News in mid-January. Host Jesse Watters suggested the superstar was a Defense Department asset engaging in psychological warfare. He tied Swift’s political voice with her boyfriend’s Pfizer endorsement to the remarkable success of her Eras tour, which bolstered local economies and landed her on the cover of Time.
“Have you ever wondered why or how she blew up like this?” Watters wondered on air. “Well, around four years ago, the Pentagon psychological operations unit floated turning Taylor Swift into an asset during a NATO meeting.”
Andrea Hailey, the CEO of Vote.org, made the most of the Fox News criticism, saying the organization’s partnership with Swift “is helping all Americans make their voices heard at the ballot box,” adding that the star is “not a psy-op or a Pentagon asset.”
But her appearance on the field with Kelce in Baltimore after the Chiefs beat the Ravens on Sunday, complete with a kiss and a hug, appears to have sent conservatives into a fit of apoplexy that may only grow in the run-up to Super Bowl LVIII in Las Vegas on Feb. 11.
The feelings are so strong that Fox News ran a segment Sunday lamenting that Swift’s private “jet belches tons of CO2 emissions,” showing a sudden awareness of the leading cause of global warming.
Ramaswamy said his Super Bowl conjecture was dead serious.
“What your kind of people call ‘conspiracy theories,’ I simply call an amalgam of collective incentives hiding in plain sight,” he said.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre stoked speculation still more by invoking the Hatch Act, which prohibits political actions by civil servants, in declining to answer whether Biden would be appearing with Swift.
“I’m just going to leave it there,” she said Monday. “I’m not going to get into the president’s schedule at all from here, as it relates to the 2024 elections.”
The Trump campaign, which had initially planned to ignore the frenzy, dispatched Karoline Leavitt, a campaign spokesperson, to dismiss concerns about a potential Biden endorsement.
“I don’t think this endorsement will save him from the calamity” of his record, she said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Professional football; Music; COVID-19 vaccines; Voter registration; Domestic violence; Television news; Social networks; Political parties; Political campaigns; State elections; Conspiracy; Presidential elections; Abortion; Sexual orientation discrimination; Endorsements

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Kansas City Missouri

People: Swift, Taylor; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110; Name: Pfizer Inc; NAICS: 325412, 339113

Identifier / keyword: Washington Commanders; Instagram Inc; Blackburn, Marsha; Las Vegas (Nev); Anger (Emotion); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Freedom Of The Press; Hatch Act (1939); VoteOrg (Nonprofit); House Of Representatives; Senate; Endorsements; Rodgers, Aaron; Florida; Millennial Generation; Domestic Violence; New York State Criminal Case Against Trump (71543 23); United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Super Bowl; Youth; Presidential Election Of 2020; Politics And Government; Cooper, Jim (1954 ); California; Elections, House Of Representatives; Race And Ethnicity; Homose xuality And Bisexuality; National Anthems; Pfizer Inc; Baltimore (Md); Social Media; National Football League; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Presidential Election Of 2024; Defense Department; United States Politics And Government; Discrimination; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Global Warming; Kirk, Charlie (1993 ); Women And Girls; Conspiracy Theories; University Of Florida; Executives And Management (Theory); Baltimore Ravens; Watters, Jesse; Hugging; Kelce, Travis; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Hate Crimes; Vaccination And Immunization; Black People; Student Athlete Compensation; News And News Media; Democratic Party; Kansas; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Jean Pierre, Karine; Transgender; Abortion; Polls And Public Opinion; Newsom, Gavin; San Francisco (Calif); Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; United States Defense And Military Forces; Pop And Rock Music; Elections, Senate; Swift, Taylor; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Loomer, Laura; Weisman, Jonathan; Trump, Donald J; San Francisco 49ers; Football; Habba, Alina; Mulvaney, Dylan (1996 ); United States National Anthem Protests (2016 ); Elections, State Legislature; Tennessee; Colleges And Universities; Kansas City Chiefs; Posobiec, Jack; Bredesen, Phil; Time (Magazine); Turning Point Usa

Title: Taylor Swift, Travis Kelce and a MAGA Meltdown

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 30, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-30T21:38:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2919909150

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taylor-swift-travis-kelce-maga-meltdown/docview/2919909150/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Poor Nikki, Poor Us: [Op-Ed]

Author: Collins, Gail

Publication info: Collins, Gail. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/poor-nikki-us/docview/2918055971/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two possible ways of looking at New Hampshire's vote:
A: Face it, Nikki Haley is toast. No reason for her to continue running.
B: ... Except that she's the only thing saving us from a full year of just Trump vs. Biden.
Of course, the general election in November is beyond critical. Joe Biden's backers are happy to list his presidential achievements at every opportunity. ("Big infrastructure program" tends to work best.) And he's a man of fine character. But face it, you'd rather not start reliving the 2020 campaign already.
Right now, we turn our attention to the South Carolina Republican primary -- at least there's going to be one. "New Hampshire is first in the nation. It is not the last in the nation," Haley told her supporters after she came in, well, second, in her one-on-one race against Donald Trump.
Obviously, she had to spin positive. "What a great night," she said -- um, claimed -- as Trump beat her by about 11 percentage points in a state with one of the most moderate, independent Republican parties in the country. Haley was upbeat, but the members of the Republican elite who had supported her were grabbing onto life preservers and preparing to jump her sinking ship.
Haley's even been ditched by Tim Scott -- the guy she appointed to the Senate when she was governor of South Carolina. Scott did at least provide us with one interesting topic on primary night. He'd posted pictures that allowed the world to see him kneeling on a beach, proposing to his girlfriend, in the presence, apparently, of a supportive photographer.
The timing, at the very least, was awkward. Love or attention-grabbing? I don't actually care, but I am happy to continue discussing. Anything but the inevitability of Trump vs. Biden.
That's where we're going, for sure. But wouldn't you rather wait and start focusing on it after the summer, when the Republicans have their convention in July and the Democrats close up the whole shebang with theirs in August?
Even if the Republican primaries drag on, they won't exactly be thrilling. You're gonna need to come up with some diversions. How about this -- every week from now until the election you'll read one play by William Shakespeare. The man wrote nearly 40 -- that'd still leave you plenty of spare time to dwell on the battling news releases of Don and Joe.
OK, OK. You'd at least have read the plays.
Amazingly, the race has already gotten more boring. The colorful sidekicks are falling by the wayside. Ron DeSantis, a terrible candidate who was at least good for an occasional chuckle, dropped out just before the New Hampshire vote. His deeply DeSantis farewell included a stirring quote from Winston Churchill that Churchill never said -- Stephen Colbert happily pointed out that it appeared to come from a very old Budweiser ad.
And Trump's gonna keep being His Unbearability. In New Hampshire, he gave a sort of victory speech as soon as the polls closed, in which he described Haley as "a losing candidate who puts America last," in between rants about how "this country has gone to hell."
Yeah, he's gonna win the nomination and the nation will be flooded with stories about the Trump-Biden rematch. Once you're done with Shakespeare, what else are you gonna do for distraction? Well, you might consider focusing on something besides the White House. There are lots of important races around the country. Senator Sherrod Brown is a fine lawmaker who could use re-election support, given that Democrats in Ohio state offices are rarer than the Madagascar pochard, which happens to be a critically endangered African bird. (Hey, maybe you could turn your attention to saving endangered fowl.)
Or -- Texas! Ted Cruz is running for re-election. What could be a better way to spend the summer than supporting the political destruction of Ted Cruz? Even your Republican neighbors are going to have a hard time getting past that vacation he tried to take in Mexico while his constituents were living without electricity.
Or spend some time memorizing poems by Emily Dickinson. Could be a nice diversion at Thanksgiving dinner this year, when everybody's trying to avoid discussing the upcoming presidential term of ... one of two guys who were around for the Korean War and seem to have been on TV news every night since.
We're gonna spend the next nine months getting ready for four more years. Kinda makes you think about:
A. Taking up yoga
B. Learning to play the flute
C. Making a list of 40 home improvements and checking off one every week. With some time off for vacation. Then next January, when you watch Joe Biden and Kamala Harris being sworn in, you're going to be able to dwell on the really excellent state of the linen closet.
If it's Trump being sworn in again ... oh God, nononono, we're not gonna go there.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PETERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Political campaigns; Primaries & caucuses; Presidential elections; Candidates

Location: New Hampshire; South Carolina; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Haley, Nikki

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/24/opinion/nikki-haley-new-hampshire-trump-biden.html

Title: Poor Nikki, Poor Us:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 25, 2024

column: Gail Collins

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2918055971

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/poor-nikki-us/docview/2918055971/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Let's Revisit the Social Media Moments Of 2023 You Were Hoping to Forget: [Correction]

Author: Madison Malone Kircher

Publication info: Madison Malone Kircher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lets-revisit-social-media-moments-2023-you-were/docview/2906694704/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: You may have forgotten -- or wanted to forget -- what happened on the internet in 2023. We're here to refresh your memory.
Algorithms are getting good, alarmingly so, at feeding you content targeted to your weird and wonderful and even secret interests. Still, a lot of interesting stories end up falling outside our digital castle walls. This list is an attempt to rectify that, revisiting the people, trends, feuds and frenzies that took off on social media platforms in 2023 but might not have broken into your personal World Wide Web.
Did you see the olive oil executive trying to start beef with another olive oil executive on LinkedIn? How about the woman who gets paid thousands of dollars by pretending to be a video game character? Or the young Texan who is facing prison time after his lavish wedding blew up on TikTok? We've got you covered.
The Inexplicable
Hail, Caesar?
Find a man, any man, and ask him how often he thinks about the Roman Empire. According to TikTok, the answer is at least once a day. Viral videos on the platform inspired a "Saturday Night Live" sketch in November. "The Roman Empire, Ancient Rome," rapped the episode's guest host, Jason Momoa. "Five times a day, it pops into my dome."
Don't Call It a Snack
Girl Dinner was a big summertime TikTok trend. A number of people -- mostly young women, as the name implies -- showed off nicely arranged plates comprising a bit of this (cheese), a bit of that (bread, maybe) and a few other things (pickle spear, nuts, salami slice). Proponents said the trend freed them from the tyranny of traditional dinner. Detractors claimed it glorified eating disorders.
A Yassified Barney
After Barney the purple dinosaur got a makeover in February, baffled fans filled the internet with talk of the character's new teeth, brighter purple skin, larger eyes and perhaps even a bit of rhinoplasty. (Make that dinoplasty. I'll be here all article.)
The Return of Joe Cool
The "Peanuts" dog created by Charles M. Schulz found a new generation of fans this year. In April, the American Red Cross was inundated with young people looking to donate blood in exchange for a limited-edition Snoopy T-shirt. In October, The Atlantic labeled the cartoon beagle "The Hero Gen Z Needs."
A Broadway-Style Rap. What Could Go Wrong?
Ariana DeBose's opening number at the British Academy Film Awards in February quickly became a meme. Was it bizarre? Yes. Could you look away? Absolutely not. Ms. DeBose, a member of the original "Hamilton" cast, brought the earnest enthusiasm of a Broadway star to a rap that included the lines "Angela Bassett did the thing / Viola Davis, my Woman King." Social media loved it. And hated it.
An Underground Star
Sabrina Bahsoon, a law school graduate in her early twenties, racked up millions of online views this year by filming herself lip-syncing in the London Underground amid unsuspecting commuters. Tube Girl, as she was known, inspired numerous copycats.
The Edible
Gimme Five Margaritas!
On the campus of Louisiana State University in May, Cindy Smock, a 65-year-old evangelical preacher, tried to sell students on the benefits of abstinence by listing the sexual acts that women will supposedly perform after drinking certain numbers of margaritas. Shortly after a video of Sister Cindy's sermon hit social media, her words inspired a banger of a tune (known as "Gimme One Margarita") that became TikTok's song of the summer.
Mm, Mm, Good?
The writer and comedian Annie Rauwerda stirred up a big reaction on the internet -- and in her Brooklyn neighborhood -- when she cooked a pot of vegan stew for over a month this summer. Her concoction was based on the "perpetual stews" of culinary lore, and Ms. Rauwerda brought it to a playground each week for anyone who wanted a taste. As it bubbled and steamed in the pot, she encouraged people to toss in their own ingredients, so that it never tasted the same way twice.
The Milkshake of Death
In June, McDonald's added something to its menu: the Grimace Shake, named in honor of the purple bloblike creature who has long been a foil to the chain's signature clown. The beverage soon gave rise to a TikTok trend: In video after video, creators started out by pretending to give a positive review of the shake -- only to end up dead in a pool of purple goo. Did McDonald's mind? Nope. "This is free advertising," said Jonah Berger, a marketing professor at the University of Pennsylvania.
Atlanta Gets Keith Lee'd
Keith Lee, a food obsessive with more than 15 million TikTok followers, has posted influential reviews of restaurants in Chicago, Detroit and Los Angeles. But he might have had his biggest effect during a visit to Atlanta in the fall, when he gave voice to the gripes of local restaurant-goers by dragging establishments that charged extra for butter, syrup and hot sauce. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution noted Mr. Lee's power over the city's dining scene in a story headlined "Move over, Michelin, Atlanta just got Keith Lee'd."
The Technically Edible
A Viral Campus Concoction
Social media helped spread the popularity of a campus drink, BORG, an acronym for "blackout rage gallon." In viral TikTok videos, student mixologists filled plastic gallon jugs with water, alcohol, sweet flavorings and a hangover remedy, like Pedialyte. "You don't taste any of the liquor, which is the great part," one college student said. Officials were less pleased by the trend. In March, the Amherst Fire Department in Amherst, Mass., reported 28 requests for ambulance transports during a BORG-fueled party at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
The Pesto Prompt
Susi Vidal, a TikTok creator in Arizona, posted a video in September about how to make homemade pesto. "Call me crazy if you want," she says at the start, "but I've never liked store-bought pesto." With that, Ms. Vidal inspired a wave of TikTok users to repost the opening of her video as the intro to much crazier confessional stories of their own about ghosts, bad dates and stalkers.
Krispy Meme
It was an image that launched a thousand Halloween costumes: Justin Bieber and his wife, Hailey, at a Krispy Kreme counter. In the photo, the celebrity couple appears to be dressed for wildly different functions, with perhaps neither appropriately attired for ordering and eating fresh doughnuts. Ms. Bieber is wearing a strapless red minidress and red heels; Mr. Bieber is outfitted in gray shorts, yellow Crocs and a pink baseball cap perched atop a gray hood. The picture was meant to promote Ms. Bieber's cosmetics line -- and it had the desired effect on the social media hive mind.
Ice Cream So Good
The TikTok creator PinkyDoll became a social media celebrity in July because of the livestreams and videos in which she played blank-eyed video game characters, the kind who says inane things like "Mmm, ice cream so good," which became a catchphrase. Though she was the subject of some online mockery, PinkyDoll made thousands of dollars from her online work.
The Audible
Big on Social
"Hello, Christ? I'm 'bout to sin again." That's a line from "You Wish," a song by the Los Angeles rap duo Flyana Boss that was huge on social media this summer. In the fall, a snippet of the song "Water," by the South African singer Tyla, swept the internet, thanks, in part, to the TikTok dance challenge that went with it. (In case you had finally gotten that one out of your head, its refrain goes: "Make me sweat/ Make me hotter/ Make me lose my breath / Make me water.") "Water" was followed by another TikTok earworm, "It Girl," by Aliyah Bah, whose multilayered fashion sense, known as Aliyahcore, trended online earlier in the year.
Cute and Cuter
Social media also fueled the rise of a number of novelty songs. A ditty created by pet owners to soothe anxious dog in elevators became an anthem for anxious humans everywhere. Sing it with me: "She's so brave / She's well behaved / She is not afraid!" A fiendishly catchy song from the children's puppet show "Nanalan"' introduced millions of people to Mona and the program's other super-cute characters. "Who's that wonderful girl?" the "Nanalan"' song goes. "Could she be any cuter?"
Spoofs Become Hits
"Planet of the Bass," a parody of a '90s Eurodance track, had a moment in August. Some internet users were amused, and others were horrified, by its kooky music video and baffling lyrics ("Women are my favorite guy"). Shout out DJ Crazy Times, also known as Kyle Gordon, a comedian in Brooklyn. In a similar vein, DJ Mandy, a 19-year-old student in California, made ripples this year as the Internet's most inept disc jockey. Social media users couldn't resist sharing videos that showed her making awkward mash-ups and beat drops, complete with a nonsensical transition from Flo Rida to Taylor Swift.
The Quiet Game
"Look around, everybody on mute," Beyoncé sang each night of her "Renaissance" tour. That line, from the song "Energy," gave rise to a social media challenge wherein audiences competed to see which crowd could be the most hushed. If you couldn't get tickets, the best seat in the house was a TikTok livestream.
The Nuptial
Emily Getting Married
Emily Mariko burst onto the viral scene in 2021 thanks to her simple recipe for salmon leftovers. In June, her California wedding became the talk of TikTok. People couldn't get enough of the details, from the brown bridesmaids dresses to Ms. Mariko's many outfit changes. It is unclear if salmon was served.
Sofia, Also Getting Married
This "quiet luxury" ceremony was anything but quiet. Social media users could not stop talking about the wedding of Sofia Richie Grainge, the daughter of Lionel Richie, to Elliot Grainge, a music executive. The soft, subtle makeup! The looks! The slicked-back bun! The South of France backdrop! Months after the April event, TikTok creators were still borrowing from Ms. Richie Grainge's wedding-day style.
TikTok's Wedding Fail
Lunden Stallings and Olivia Bennett built a huge following on TikTok, partly because of their country-club fashion sense. And so their October ceremony was highly anticipated by fans, who dubbed it TikTok's royal wedding. The excitement, however, was short-lived. Days after the event, old tweets resurfaced in which one of the brides had repeatedly used a racial slur. The couple issued an apology and added an "anti-racist resources" page to their website, but the damage was done.
There Goes the Groom
Jacob LaGrone and Madelaine Brockway, a wealthy young couple from Texas, caused an online stir thanks to their lavish wedding, a five-day affair that included stops at the Versailles, the Paris Opera house and a reception headlined by Adam Levine of Maroon 5. Ms. Brockway posted several wedding videos on TikTok, all of which went viral and caused commenters to ask, Who are these people? The videos were deleted a few days after the ceremony, when surprising facts emerged about the groom. Namely, that he had fired a gun at police officers from Westworth Village and Westover Hills, Texas, who were trying to serve him with an indictment in March. Mr. LaGrone is now facing a potential life sentence.
The Theatrical
An Oily Fight
A niche drama in the world of olive oil startups went online in April. The chief executive and co-founder of Graza logged on to LinkedIn -- a site not known as a forum for beefs -- to accuse another olive oil company of stealing his idea. The idea being a squeeze bottle.
Mascara Fraud?
Mikayla Nogueira, a beauty influencer known for her Boston accent, caused a bit of an online ruckus in January after posting an ad for L'Oreal Telescopic Life mascara. In the video, Ms. Nogueira appears to be wearing false eyelashes, rather than the product she was promoting. (Someone fibbed on the internet? For money? Say it ain't so!)
To Catch a Tabi Thief
Alex Dougé, a social media coordinator in New York, met a man named Josh on Tinder and brought him back to her apartment. The next morning she discovered that her Tabi Mary-Janes, a pricey shoe from the brand Margiela, were missing. After Ms. Dougé recapped the saga on TikTok, internet sleuths quickly located the man. It turned out that he had indeed stolen the prize shoes -- and given them to his girlfriend! Oh, the drama! Ms. Dougé eventually got her Tabis back, and social media welcomed a new addition to the roster of awful internet men.
Riverboat Brawl
A brawl on the Alabama riverfront made national news after a video of the incident went viral in August. The fight came about after five white boaters attacked a Black riverboat captain, who had instructed them to dock their pontoon elsewhere. A Black bystander joined the melee on the captain's behalf, wielding a folding chair as a weapon. In the brawl's aftermath, the humble folding chair became a symbol of resistance.
Viral Trial
Gwyneth Paltrow on trial for an accident on the slopes of the Deer Valley Resort in Utah was the internet gift that kept on giving. Social media platforms were blanketed with memes about the proceedings in March as jurors heard testimony on who was to blame for the collision -- the Oscar-winning actress or the retired optometrist who had sued her for more than $ 300,000. Online highlights included Ms. Paltrow's answer to the question of the "losses" she had suffered because of the incident. "Well," she said, "we lost half a day of skiing." The jury found her Gwynocent.
Apartment Madness
Emma Ganzarain, a resource management employee in Oslo, just wanted to share photos of her redecorated apartment with her TikTok followers. Before she moved in, she explained, her boyfriend had lived there by himself, and she believed that she had brought some order to the place. Outraged commenters did not agree, accusing Ms. Ganzarain of turning a homey apartment into a sad beige nightmare.
The Sartorial
These Boots Were Not Made For Walking
Fashion or marketing ploy? Cartoonish red boots were the talk of TikTok for a moment in February. The bloated footwear was designed by MSCHF, a New York collective with a knack for designing clothes and household goods that send the internet into a frenzy.
Law Roach (Kinda) Retires
Law Roach, an award-winning stylist for celebrities including Anne Hathaway and Celine Dion, created some confusion among the more fashion-conscious quarters of social media in March, when he abruptly announced that he was retiring, only to walk days later alongside Naomi Campbell in a runway show. He later clarified that he was retiring only from styling.
The Bed Bugs of Paris
What's French for schadenfreude? Amid the glam of Paris fashion week, a story crawled into the headlines. Bedbugs! Everywhere! Videos on social media raised the alarm by showing the little creatures scampering through the Paris Métro.
Platform as Runway
Kristina Avakyan, a New York resident, gained popularity on TikTok for videos in which she modeled eccentric outfits on subway platforms. She faced criticism after an interview with The Cut, in which she said that people in Harlem and Queens don't understand her fashion sense.
Endless A.I. Portraits
Throughout the year, A.I. generators spat out an images of people looking like modified, slightly shinier versions of themselves (with, occasionally, an extra finger or two). The A.I. yearbook photo generator was particularly popular on Instagram. But viewers beware! Pope Francis was not papped walking around in a puffy white Balenciaga coat. That was just some fairly convincing A.I. art.
The Mostly Delightful
A Hairbrush Microphone Masterpiece
The Mattison twins, a pair of TikTok creators, performed a funny lip-sync cover of Lady A's "Need You Now," singing into a hair brush suspended from the ceiling. (This hairbrush mic is one of the comedy duo's go-to props.) The low-quality video, posted in February, recalled the simpler comedy of the Vine era (2013-2017, R.I.P.).
Dances With Knives
An Instagram video of Britney Spears dancing in her home wielding two large knives grabbed the attention of viewers in September. Some concerned fans reported the video to the police, to Ms. Spears's chagrin. "So unacceptable for cops to listen to random fans and come in to my home unwarranted," she wrote on Instagram. "I've been bullied in my home for so long now ... ITS ENOUGH!" She later added that the knives were props.
So Unfair
In perhaps the most perfect nepo baby behavior of all time, Romy Mars, the teenage daughter of the director Sofia Coppola and the singer Thomas Mars, was grounded for (wait for it) trying to charter a helicopter from New York to Maryland using her father's credit card. "I wanted to have dinner with my camp friend." Ms. Mars said in a TikTok. She added that her parents had rules against her using social media.
The Streamable
A Woman of the People
In a scene from "Beckham," the Netflix documentary series about David Beckham, his wife, Victoria Beckham, is seen telling the camera that she grew up "very working class." At that moment, her husband pokes his head into the room to ask what kind of car her father drove her to school in. The former Spice Girl tries to duck the question before finally answering, "In the '80s, my dad had a Rolls-Royce." After the clip went viral, Ms. Beckham embraced it, posting it on her own TikTok account.
Feud? What Feud?
The "Sex and the City" cast member Kim Cattrall made a brief cameo in season two of the show's reboot, "And Just Like That ..." She was not in the same frame as any of the other members of the famous foursome, and if you blinked you'd have missed her. But, still, there she was. Our Samantha. Her minutes-long appearance inspired so many memes, tweets and TikToks you might have thought she was there all along.
The Debatable
Ozempic Mania
Weight loss drugs made their way to the online set this year, with some influencers casting stigma aside and unabashedly proclaiming their Ozempic use.
Djerf Dupe Drama
Matilda Djerf, a popular Swedish influencer and a founder of the fashion brand Djerf Avenue, irked fans when her team started reporting TikTok videos that mentioned places to purchase dupes -- inexpensive copies -- of her pricey designs.
Rocky Hockey Romance
Drama rippled through a niche literary community -- fans of hockey romance novels -- when Felicia Wennberg, the wife of the N.H.L. player Alex Wennberg, said that certain book lovers had become "predatory and exploiting" in their comments about her husband.
Bud Light Backlash
In April, the transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney partnered with Bud Light for a video promoting the brand. The online ad featuring Ms. Mulvaney angered many conservatives, who called for a boycott. As sales of the beer plunged, the musician Kid Rock posted a video that showed him shooting a stack of Bud Light cases. Months later, TMZ posted a video of him drinking the very same beer at a concert.
Taylor Made Travis Famous. Right?
The football star Travis Kelce was already a household name before he was romantically linked to one of the most famous women on the planet. This fall, as a prank, many women filmed themselves telling men -- usually husbands or boyfriends -- that Ms. Swift was going to put Mr. Kelce on the map. Based on the videos, it seems like every guy took the bait.
Arielle Chapin, Nancy Coleman, Anna Foley, Jessica Grose, Becky Hughes, Natasha Janardan, Joumana Khatib, Ran Lee, Phoebe Lett, Lauren McCarthy, Jordyn Holman, Callie Holtermann, Tanya Sichynsky, Dodai Stewart, Remy Tumin and Lindsey Wiebe contributed reporting.
Photograph PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIORGIO COSULICH/GETTY IMAGES; ALANA LAVERTY; MATTEL; CRISTINA PEREZ; SABRINA BAHSOON; STUART WILSON/BAFTA, VIA GETTY IMAGES; CHRISTOPHER TESTANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AMIR HAMJA/ THE NEW YORK TIMES; MCDONALD'S; JORDAN STRAUSS/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D4); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES; JULIE BENNETT/ GETTY IMAGES; RICK BOWMER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; EMMA GANZARAIN; SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KRISTINA AVAKYAN; A.I. GENERATED; DEREK WHITE/GETTY IMAGES; THE MATTISON TWINS; VALERIE MACON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; GILBERT CARRASQUILLO/GC IMAGES; GARETH CATTERMOLE/GETTY IMAGES; CRAIG BLANKENHORN/MAX; LEE SMITH/REUTERS; LOULOU D'AKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEPH CHAMBERS/GETTY IMAGES; NICK WASS/ASSOCIATED PRESS; SARAH STIER/GETTY IMAGE) (D5) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Comedians; Young adults; Rap music; Internet; Computer & video games; Trends; Roman civilization; Celebrities; Social networks; Disc jockeys; Women; Year in review

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Los Angeles California; Atlanta Georgia

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Title: Let's Revisit the Social Media Moments Of 2023 You Were Hoping to Forget:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 28, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2906694704

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lets-revisit-social-media-moments-2023-you-were/docview/2906694704/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Top Social Media Trends of 2023: Roman Empire, Grimace Shake, Keith Lee and More

Author: Madison Malone Kircher

Publication info: Madison Malone Kircher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/top-social-media-trends-2023-roman-empire-grimace/docview/2906607957/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Algorithms are getting good, alarmingly so, at feeding you content targeted to your weird and wonderful and even secret interests. Still, a lot of interesting stories end up falling outside our digital castle walls. This list is an attempt to rectify that, revisiting the people, trends, feuds and frenzies that took off on social media platforms in 2023 but might not have broken into your personal World Wide Web.
Did you see the olive oil executive trying to start beef with another olive oil executive on LinkedIn? How about the woman who gets paid thousands of dollars by pretending to be a video game character? Or the young Texan who is facing prison time after his lavish wedding blew up on TikTok? We’ve got you covered.
THE INEXPLICABLE
Hail, Caesar?
Find a man, any man, and ask him how often he thinks about the Roman Empire. According to TikTok, the answer is at least once a day. Viral videos on the platform inspired a “Saturday Night Live” sketch in November. “The Roman Empire, Ancient Rome,” rapped the episode’s guest host, Jason Momoa. “Five times a day, it pops into my dome.”
Don’t Call It a Snack
Girl Dinner was a big summertime TikTok trend. A number of people — mostly young women, as the name implies — showed off nicely arranged plates comprising a bit of this (cheese), a bit of that (bread, maybe) and a few other things (pickle spear, nuts, salami slice). Proponents said the trend freed them from the tyranny of traditional dinner. Detractors claimed it glorified eating disorders.
A Yassified Barney
After Barney the purple dinosaur got a makeover in February, baffled fans filled the internet with talk of the character’s new teeth, brighter purple skin, larger eyes and perhaps even a bit of rhinoplasty. (Make that dinoplasty . I’ll be here all article.)
The Return of Joe Cool
The “Peanuts” dog created by Charles M. Schulz found a new generation of fans this year. In April, the American Red Cross was inundated with young people looking to donate blood in exchange for a limited-edition Snoopy T-shirt. In October, The Atlantic labeled the cartoon beagle “The Hero Gen Z Needs.”
A Broadway-Style Rap. What Could Go Wrong?
Ariana DeBose’s opening number at the British Academy Film Awards in February quickly became a meme. Was it bizarre? Yes. Could you look away? Absolutely not. DeBose, a member of the original “Hamilton” cast, brought the earnest enthusiasm of a Broadway star to a rap that included the lines “Angela Bassett did the thing / Viola Davis, my Woman King.” Social media loved it. And hated it.
An Underground Star
Sabrina Bahsoon, a law school graduate in her early 20s, racked up millions of online views this year by filming herself lip-syncing in the London Underground amid unsuspecting commuters. Tube Girl, as she was known, inspired numerous copycats.
THE EDIBLE
Gimme Five Margaritas!
On the campus of Louisiana State University in May, Cindy Smock, a 65-year-old evangelical preacher, tried to sell students on the benefits of abstinence by listing the sexual acts that women will supposedly perform after drinking certain numbers of margaritas. Shortly after a video of Sister Cindy’s sermon hit social media, her words inspired a banger of a tune (known as “Gimme One Margarita”) that became TikTok’s song of the summer.
Mm, Mm, Good?
Writer-comedian Annie Rauwerda stirred up a big reaction on the internet — and in her New York City neighborhood — when she cooked a pot of vegan stew for over a month this summer. Her concoction was based on the “perpetual stews” of culinary lore, and Rauwerda brought it to a playground each week for anyone who wanted a taste. As it bubbled and steamed in the pot, she encouraged people to toss in their own ingredients, so that it never tasted the same way twice.
The Milkshake of Death
In June, McDonald’s added something to its menu: the Grimace Shake, named in honor of the purple bloblike creature that has long been a foil to the chain’s signature clown. The beverage soon gave rise to a TikTok trend: In video after video, creators started out by pretending to give a positive review of the shake — only to end up dead in a pool of purple goo. Did McDonald’s mind? Nope. “This is free advertising,” said Jonah Berger, a marketing professor at the University of Pennsylvania.
Atlanta Gets Keith Lee’d
Keith Lee, a food obsessive with more than 15 million TikTok followers, has posted influential reviews of restaurants in Chicago, Detroit and Los Angeles. But he might have had his biggest effect during a visit to Atlanta in the fall, when he gave voice to the gripes of local restaurant-goers by dragging establishments that charged extra for butter, syrup and hot sauce. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution noted Lee’s power over the city’s dining scene in a story headlined “Move over, Michelin, Atlanta just got Keith Lee’d.”
THE TECHNICALLY EDIBLE
A Viral Campus Concoction
Social media helped spread the popularity of a campus drink, BORG, an acronym for “blackout rage gallon.” In viral TikTok videos, student mixologists filled plastic gallon jugs with water, alcohol, sweet flavorings and a hangover remedy, like Pedialyte. “You don’t taste any of the liquor, which is the great part,” one college student said. Officials were less pleased by the trend. In March, the Amherst Fire Department in Amherst, Massachusetts, reported 28 requests for ambulance transports during a BORG-fueled party at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
The Pesto Prompt
Susi Vidal, a TikTok creator in Arizona, posted a video in September about how to make homemade pesto. “Call me crazy if you want,” she says at the start, “but I’ve never liked store-bought pesto.” With that, Vidal inspired a wave of TikTok users to repost the opening of her video as the intro to much crazier confessional stories of their own about ghosts, bad dates and stalkers.
Krispy M eme
It was an image that launched a thousand Halloween costumes: Justin Bieber and his wife, Hailey, at a Krispy Kreme counter. In the photo, the celebrity couple appears to be dressed for wildly different functions, with perhaps neither appropriately attired for ordering and eating fresh doughnuts. Hailey Bieber is wearing a strapless red minidress and red heels; Justin Bieber is outfitted in gray shorts, yellow Crocs and a pink baseball cap perched atop a gray hood. The picture was meant to promote Hailey Bieber’s cosmetics line — and it had the desired effect on the social media hive mind.
Ice Cream So Good
TikTok creator PinkyDoll became a social media celebrity in July because of the livestreams and videos in which she played blank-eyed video game characters, the kind who says inane things like “Mmm, ice cream so good,” which became a catchphrase. Though she was the subject of some online mockery, PinkyDoll made thousands of dollars from her online work.
THE AUDIBLE
Big on Social
“Hello, Christ? I’m ’bout to sin again.” That’s a line from “You Wish,” a song by Los Angeles rap duo Flyana Boss that was huge on social media this summer. In the fall, a snippet of the song “Water,” by South African singer Tyla, swept the internet, thanks, in part, to the TikTok dance challenge that went with it. (In case you had finally gotten that one out of your head, its refrain goes: “Make me sweat / Make me hotter / Make me lose my breath / Make me water.”) “Water” was followed by another TikTok earworm, “It Girl,” by Aliyah Bah, whose multilayered fashion sense, known as Aliyahcore, trended online earlier in the year.
Cute and Cuter
Social media also fueled the rise of a number of novelty songs. A ditty created by pet owners to soothe an anxious dog in elevators became an anthem for anxious humans everywhere. Sing it with me: “She’s so brave / She’s well behaved / She is not afraid!” A fiendishly catchy song from the children’s puppet show “Nanalan’” introduced millions of people to Mona and the program’s other super-cute characters. “Who’s that wonderful girl?” the “Nanalan’” song goes. “Could she be any cuter?”
Spoofs Become Hits
“Planet of the Bass,” a parody of a ’90s Eurodance track, had a moment in August. Some internet users were amused, and others were horrified, by its kooky music video and baffling lyrics (“Women are my favorite guy”). Shoutout to DJ Crazy Times, aka Kyle Gordon, a comedian in New York City. In a similar vein, DJ Mandy, a 19-year-old student in California, made ripples this year as the Internet’s most inept disc jockey. Social media users couldn’t resist sharing videos that showed her making awkward mash-ups and beat drops, complete with a nonsensical transition from Flo Rida to Taylor Swift.
The Quiet Game
“Look around, everybody on mute,” Beyoncé sang each night of her “Renaissance” tour. That line, from the song “Energy,” gave rise to a social media challenge wherein audiences competed to see which crowd could be the most hushed. If you couldn’t get tickets, the best seat in the house was a TikTok livestream.
THE NUPTIAL
Emily Getting Married
Emily Mariko burst onto the viral scene in 2021 thanks to her simple recipe for salmon leftovers. In June, her California wedding became the talk of TikTok. People couldn’t get enough of the details, from the brown bridesmaids dresses to Mariko’s many outfit changes. It is unclear if salmon was served.
Sofia, Also Getting Married
This “quiet luxury” ceremony was anything but quiet. Social media users could not stop talking about the wedding of Sofia Richie Grainge, the daughter of Lionel Richie, to Elliot Grainge, a music executive. The soft, subtle makeup! The looks! The slicked-back bun! The South of France backdrop! Months after the April event, TikTok creators were still borrowing from Richie Grainge’s wedding-day style.
TikTok’s Wedding Fail
Lunden Stallings and Olivia Bennett built a huge following on TikTok, partly because of their country-club fashion sense. And so their October ceremony was highly anticipated by fans, who dubbed it TikTok’s royal wedding. The excitement, however, was short-lived. Days after the event, old tweets resurfaced in which one of the brides had repeatedly used a racial slur. The couple issued an apology and added an “anti-racist resources” page to their website, but the damage was done.
There Goes the Groom
Jacob LaGrone and Madelaine Brockway, a wealthy young couple from Texas, caused an online stir thanks to their lavish wedding, a five-day affair that included stops at the Versailles, the Paris Opera house and a reception headlined by Adam Levine of Maroon 5. Brockway posted several wedding videos on TikTok, all of which went viral and caused commenters to ask, Who are these people? The videos were deleted a few days after the ceremony, when surprising facts emerged about the groom. Namely, that he had fired a gun at police officers from Westworth Village and Westover Hills, Texas, who were trying to serve him with an indictment in March. LaGrone is now facing a potential life sentence.
THE THEATRICAL
An Oily Fight
A niche drama in the world of olive oil startups went online in April. The CEO and co-founder of Graza logged on to LinkedIn — a site not known as a forum for beefs — to accuse another olive oil company of stealing his idea. The idea being a squeeze bottle.
Mascara Fraud?
Mikayla Nogueira, a beauty influencer known for her Boston accent, caused a bit of an online ruckus in January after posting an ad for L’Oreal Telescopic Life mascara. In the video, Nogueira appears to be wearing false eyelashes, rather than the product she was promoting. (Someone fibbed on the internet? For money? Say it ain’t so!)
To Catch a Tabi Thief
Alex Dougé, a social media coordinator in New York, met a man named Josh on Tinder and brought him back to her apartment. The next morning she discovered that her Tabi Mary-Janes, a pricey shoe from the brand Margiela, were missing. After Dougé recapped the saga on TikTok, internet sleuths quickly located the man. It turned out that he had indeed stolen the prize shoes — and given them to his girlfriend! Oh, the drama! Dougé eventually got her Tabis back, and social media welcomed a new addition to the roster of awful internet men.
Riverboat Brawl
A brawl on the Alabama riverfront made national news after a video of the incident went viral in August. The fight came about after five white boaters attacked a Black riverboat captain, who had instructed them to dock their pontoon elsewhere. A Black bystander joined the melee on the captain’s behalf, wielding a folding chair as a weapon. In the brawl’s aftermath, the humble folding chair became a symbol of resistance.
Viral Trial
Gwyneth Paltrow on trial for an accident on the slopes of the Deer Valley Resort in Utah was the internet gift that kept on giving. Social media platforms were blanketed with memes about the proceedings in March as jurors heard testimony on who was to blame for the collision — the Oscar-winning actress or the retired optometrist who had sued her for more than $300,000. Online highlights included Paltrow’s answer to the question of the “losses” she had suffered because of the incident. “Well,” she said, “we lost half a day of skiing.” The jury found her Gwynocent.
Apartment Madness
Emma Ganzarain, a resource management employee in Oslo, Norway, just wanted to share photos of her redecorated apartment with her TikTok followers. Before she moved in, she explained, her boyfriend had lived there by himself, and she believed that she had brought some order to the place. Outraged commenters did not agree, accusing Ganzarain of turning a homey apartment into a sad beige nightmare.
THE SARTORIAL
These Boots Were Not Made For Walking
Fashion or marketing ploy? Cartoonish red boots were the talk of TikTok for a moment in February. The bloated footwear was designed by MSCHF, a New York collective with a knack for designing clothes and household goods that send the internet into a frenzy.
Law Roach (Kinda) Retires
Law Roach, an award-winning stylist for celebrities including Anne Hathaway and Celine Dion, created some confusion among the more fashion-conscious quarters of social media in March, when he abruptly announced that he was retiring, only to walk days later alongside Naomi Campbell in a runway show. He later clarified that he was retiring only from styling.
The Bedbugs of Paris
What’s French for schadenfreude? Amid the glam of Paris Fashion Week, a story crawled into the headlines. Bedbugs! Everywhere! Videos on social media raised the alarm by showing the little creatures scampering through the Paris Métro.
Platform as Runway
Kristina Avakyan, a New York resident, gained popularity on TikTok for videos in which she modeled eccentric outfits on subway platforms. She faced criticism after an interview with The Cut, in which she said that people in Harlem and Queens don’t understand her fashion sense.
Endless AI Portraits
Throughout the year, AI generators spat out images of people looking like modified, slightly shinier versions of themselves (with, occasionally, an extra finger or two). The AI yearbook photo generator was particularly popular on Instagram. But viewers beware! Pope Francis was not papped walking around in a puffy white Balenciaga coat. That was just some fairly convincing AI art.
THE MOSTLY DELIGHTFUL
A Hairbrush Microphone Masterpiece
The Mattison twins, a pair of TikTok creators, performed a funny lip-sync cover of Lady A’s “Need You Now,” singing into a hair brush suspended from the ceiling. (This hairbrush mic is one of the comedy duo’s go-to props.) The low-quality video, posted in February, recalled the simpler comedy of the Vine era (2013-17, RIP).
Dances With Knives
An Instagram video of Britney Spears dancing in her home wielding two large knives grabbed the attention of viewers in September. Some concerned fans reported the video to the police, to Spears’ chagrin. “So unacceptable for cops to listen to random fans and come in to my home unwarranted,” she wrote on Instagram. “I’ve been bullied in my home for so long now … ITS ENOUGH!” She later added that the knives were props.
So Unfair
In perhaps the most perfect nepo baby behavior of all time, Romy Mars, the teenage daughter of director Sofia Coppola and singer Thomas Mars, was grounded for (wait for it) trying to charter a helicopter from New York to Maryland using her father’s credit card. “I wanted to have dinner with my camp friend,” Romy Mars said in a TikTok. She added that her parents had rules against her using social media.
THE STREAMABLE
A Woman of the People
In a scene from “Beckham,” the Netflix documentary series about David Beckham, his wife, Victoria Beckham, is seen telling the camera that she grew up “very working class.” At that moment, her husband pokes his head into the room to ask what kind of car her father drove her to school in. The former Spice Girl tries to duck the question before finally answering, “In the ’80s, my dad had a Rolls-Royce.” After the clip went viral, Beckham embraced it, posting it on her own TikTok account.
Feud? What Feud?
“Sex and the City” cast member Kim Cattrall made a brief cameo in season two of the show’s reboot, “And Just Like That …”. She was not in the same frame as any of the other members of the famous foursome, and if you blinked you’d have missed her. But, still, there she was. Our Samantha. Her minutes-long appearance inspired so many memes, tweets and TikToks you might have thought she was there all along.
THE DEBATABLE
Ozempic Mania
Weight loss drugs made their way to the online set this year, with some influencers casting stigma aside and unabashedly proclaiming their Ozempic use.
Djerf Dupe Drama
Matilda Djerf, a popular Swedish influencer and a founder of the fashion brand Djerf Avenue, irked fans when her team started reporting TikTok videos that mentioned places to purchase dupes — inexpensive copies — of her pricey designs.
Rocky Hockey Romance
Drama rippled through a niche literary community — fans of hockey romance novels — when Felicia Wennberg, the wife of NHL player Alex Wennberg, said that certain book lovers had become “predatory and exploiting” in their comments about her husband.
Bud Light Backlash
In April, transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney partnered with Bud Light for a video promoting the brand. The online ad featuring Mulvaney angered many conservatives, who called for a boycott. As sales of the beer plunged, musician Kid Rock posted a video that showed him shooting a stack of Bud Light cases. Months later, TMZ posted a video of him drinking the very same beer at a concert.
Taylor Made Travis Famous. Right?
Football star Travis Kelce was already a household name before he was romantically linked to one of the most famous women on the planet. This fall, as a prank, many women filmed themselves telling men — usually husbands or boyfriends — that Swift was going to put Kelce on the map. Based on the videos, it seems like every guy took the bait.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Comedians; Young adults; Rap music; Internet; Computer & video games; Trends; Roman civilization; Celebrities; Social networks; Disc jockeys; Women

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts; New York City New York; Los Angeles California; Atlanta Georgia

People: Bieber, Justin

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Alcohol Abuse; British Academy Of Film And Television; Djerf Avenue (Fashion Label); Orderliness And Clutter; Balenciaga (Fashion Label); Netflix Inc; Movies; Massachusetts; Atlantic Monthly; Assaults; The Hero (Play); Cattrall, Kim; Restaurants; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Celebrities; University Of Massachusetts; Great Britain; Amherst College; New Yo rk City; Blood Donation; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Linkedin Corporation; Bieber, Justin; Hair; Arizona; Dion, Celine; Atlanta Journal Constitution; Long, Michael R; Youth; Sofia (Englewood, Nj, Restaurant); Hockey, Ice; Levine, Adam; Teenagers And Adolescence; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Bugs (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Referendums; Two Thousand Twenty Three; California; Maroon 5 (Music Group); Atlanta Journal; Race And Ethnicity; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Djerf, Matilda; Gordon, Kyle (Dj Crazy Times); Dancing; Alabama; TmzCom; Halloween; Culture (Arts); Vine Labs Inc; South Africa; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Amherst (Mass); Cocktails And Mixed Drinks; Lee, Keith (1981 ); Roach, Law; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Joe (Singer); Roman Civilization; Online Advertising; Weddings And Engagements; Oils And Fats; Versailles (France); Railroads; Fire Department (Nyc); Rolls Royce Motor Cars; Disc Jockeys; Richie, Lionel; Boycotts; Sinon, Fedha (Pinkydoll); Flo (Music Group); Texas; Discrimination; Crocs Inc; Women And Girls; Roman Catholic Church; Tinder (Mobile App); Music; Taste; Wennberg, Alex (1994 ); Pennsylvania; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Heat And Heat Waves; Computers And The Internet; Kid Rock; Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Hate Crimes; Advertising And Marketing; Utah; Senses And Sensation; Hello!; Kelce, Travis; Weight; Michelin Guide; Law And Legislation; Sweden; Paris (France); Mars (Planet); Rumors And Misinformation; Richie, Sofia (1998 ); Atlanta (Ga); Transgender; Tiktok (Bytedance); Education (K 12); Lifestyle; Dating And Relationships; British Pound (Currency); Polls And Public Opinion; Condiments; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Stars And Galaxies; Home Repairs And Improvements; Computer And Video Games; Hathaway, Anne; Generation Z; Beer; Fires And Firefighters; Executive Compensation; Pop And Rock Music; Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc; Michelin Group; Broadway (Manhattan, Ny); Nepotism; Coppola, Sofia; Space And Astronomy; Louisiana State University; Robberies And Thefts; Opera; Swift, Taylor; Paris Opera; University Of Maryland; Boston (Mass); Debose, Ariana; Campbell, Naomi; Instant Messaging; Seasons And Months; Sex; Television; France; Beckham, Victoria; Davis, Viola; High Net Worth Individuals; Spears, Britney; Queens (Nyc); Bedbugs; Autumn (Season); Web Original Programming; Shoes And Boots; Anger (Emotion); Mulvaney, Dylan (1996 ); Street Performers; University Of Massachusetts Amherst; Paltrow, Gwyneth; University Of Pennsylvania; Colleges And Universities; Chicago (Ill); Models (Professional); Boss, Hugo, Fashions Inc; American Red Cross; Numbers; Stalking (Crime); Apologies; Thief (Video Game); Start Ups; Fish And Other Marine Life; Paris Fashion Week; Maryland; Peanuts (Comic Strip); Fans (Persons); Schulz, Charles M; Beverages; Everywhere Llc; University Of Texas At Austin; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological

Title: Top Social Media Trends of 2023: Roman Empire, Grimace Shake, Keith Lee and More

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 27, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-27T23:03:58Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2906607957

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/top-social-media-trends-2023-roman-empire-grimace/docview/2906607957/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2901361565/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: VIDEO GAMES
E3 Organizers Indicate End to Yearly Conventions
E3, one of the world's largest video game conventions, is shutting down permanently, its organizers said on Tuesday, ending what was once an annual rite for players and creators after it struggled for years to remain relevant in a rapidly evolving industry.
"After more than two decades of E3, each one bigger than the last, the time has come to say goodbye," its hosts, the nonprofit Entertainment Software Association, announced on its website.
The Electronic Entertainment Expo, known as E3, had been held every year in Los Angeles since 1995, except when it was canceled during the pandemic. It was one of the most high-profile venues where game makers showcased their latest creations to fans before they went on sale. Celebrities like Eminem and Rihanna appeared.
Organizers canceled E3 in 2020 and made it virtual in 2021. It was canceled again in 2022 and never recovered. John Yoon
MARKETING
Cardinals Extend Contract With Anheuser-Busch
The St. Louis Cardinals have been playing in Busch Stadium for seven decades, and that won't change anytime soon.
The team and Anheuser-Busch announced Wednesday that they have agreed to a five-year marketing agreement extension that will run through 2030. In addition to stadium naming rights, the maker of Budweiser, Bud Light and other beers maintains exclusive rights to all alcoholic beverage advertising on Cardinals radio and TV broadcasts, stadium signage rights and other marketing benefits.
Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.
"Anheuser-Busch and the Cardinals are part of the fabric of St. Louis, and this continued investment in our shared hometown is an exciting next chapter in our decades long story," Matt Davis, vice president of partnerships for Anheuser-Busch, said in a news release. Associated Press
REGULATION
S.E.C. to Force Trades Through Clearing Houses
Wall Street's top regulator on Wednesday adopted new rules aimed at reducing systemic risk in the $ 26 trillion U.S. Treasury market by forcing more trades through clearing houses, while offering some concessions following industry pushback.
The five-member U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission voted 4-1 on Wednesday to advance the new rules, proposed over a year ago as part of a broader effort to fix structural issues regulators believe are causing volatility and liquidity problems.
A central clearer acts as the buyer to every seller, and seller to every buyer, guaranteeing trades in case either party defaults.
"Today's final rules, taken together, will reduce risk across a vital part of our capital markets in normal times and stress times. That benefits investors, issuers, and the markets connecting them," the S.E.C. Chairman Gary Gensler said. Reuters
Credit: By John Yoon, The Associated Press and Stanley Reed
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANHEUSER-BUSCH) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Marketing

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/13/business/14bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 14, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2901361565

Document URL: https://www.proquest .com/newspapers/digest/docview/2901361565/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Most Stylish People (And More) of 2023: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/most-stylish-people-more-2023/docview/2899950971/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The "people" on this list -- who are presented in no particular order -- reflect the ways that the Styles desk defines its coverage: high and low; fun and serious; curious and open-minded; reveling in characters; appreciating the material world; inviting everyone to the party.
Many were recognized for being Styles-ish, others for being stylish. (Several could not have done it without the help of stylists, costume designers and other crews.) Lots came from the worlds of politics, film, TV, music, sports and fashion. But a few caught our attention in less expected places, like courtrooms.
Some had great hair. Some had singular accessories. One person had both -- and was mistaken for a duchess in disguise. Certain people might surprise you or (we hope) inspire heated debate. After all, one thing they had in common is they made us talk: about what we wear, how we live and how we express ourselves.
Michelle Yeoh
The actress made history at the Oscars, became a face of Balenciaga and stood out on every red carpet.
Beyoncé
Her wardrobe for the Renaissance tour featured almost an entire season's worth of couture looks.
Phoebe Philo
Six years after leaving Celine, fashion's prodigal daughter returned with a namesake brand sold only online. Fans lost their minds, some over what they felt were high prices.
Frances Tiafoe
Big Foe, as the tennis player is known, scored big style points when he played the Australian Open in his colorful lava-lamp-like kit.
P.J. and Josie in 'Bottoms'
P.J., played by Rachel Sennott, and Josie, played by Ayo Edebiri, helped to usher in a rugby shirt renaissance.
NewJeans
With a sound inspired by late '90s and early 2000s R&B, the bunny-ears-wearing members of NewJeans climbed to the top of Billboard charts and earned various distinctions -- including being the first female K-pop act to play Lollapalooza.
Representative Patrick McHenry of North Carolina
A silver lining of watching the many House speaker votes? Seeing the outgoing Republican congressman's various bow ties.
Jeff Bezos' Schooner
When the boat set sail, many started to see Lauren Sánchez, the former news anchor who became engaged to the Amazon founder in May, in its figurehead. In an interview with Vogue, she denied it was her likeness, suggesting that if the figurehead were inspired by her, it would have bigger breasts.
Travis Kelce
Proximity to a certain pop star has made the Kansas City Chiefs tight end a household name -- and a desirable billboard for labels like KidSuper.
Doja Cat
The singer and rapper has made an art form of altering her image, using prosthetics (and an Oscar de la Renta gown) to evoke Karl Lagerfeld's cat at the Met Gala and covering herself in ruby crystals to complete her fiery look at a Schiaparelli couture show.
Dylan Mulvaney
The transgender influencer did not let critics of her Bud Light campaign stop her from gracing red carpets at events like the Tony Awards, where she sparkled in a semi-sheer gown.
Pharrell Williams
Since taking over men's wear at Louis Vuitton, he has tapped (a pregnant) Rihanna for an ad campaign and has designed a $ 1 million handbag.
Gwyneth Paltrow
Perhaps the only thing more talked about than her clothes at her ski crash trial were her courtroom quips, like "Well, I lost half a day of skiing," which inspired a wave of T-shirts and other merchandise.
The Sphere
Las Vegas's new arena has become the biggest visual spectacle in a city full of them.
Alan Cumming in 'The Traitors'
As host of the murderous reality TV competition, the actor gave a master class in men's wear.
Lauryn Hill
Her tour celebrating the 25th anniversary of her album "The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill" treated fans to nostalgia and some pretty neat costumes.
Paul Mescal
His commitment to -- and command of -- the mullet was remarkable.
The Ludicrously Capacious Bag in 'Succession'
As Tom Wambsgans said in the show: "What's even in there, huh? Flat shoes for the subway? Her lunch pail? I mean ... it's monstrous. It's gargantuan. You could take it camping. You could slide it across the floor after a bank job."
Jacob Elordi
Onscreen and off, the actor has surprised people with his accessories (that eyebrow piercing in "Saltburn") and lack thereof (walking barefoot in Los Angeles). But his best accessorizing by far has been with handbags big and small.
State Representative Justin Jones of Tennessee
The Democratic lawmaker's white suit became a potent political symbol when he was briefly expelled from the Tennessee legislature over a protest for gun control.
Lily Gladstone
On red carpets, the breakout star of "Killers of the Flower Moon" has a knack for mixing luxury fashion with pieces from independent and Native American designers.
M3GAN in 'M3GAN'
The twisted doll had a killer outfit.
Greta Lee
The "Past Lives" actress dresses with a fearlessness that makes fashion fun. Her return to red carpets was among the many benefits of ending the actors' union strike.
King Charles III
He finally got to wear St. Edward's Crown.
Ice Spice
The rapper known for her red Afro was the inspiration for a diamond necklace, a drink at Dunkin' and lots of Halloween costumes.
Maggie Smith
Her Loewe campaign was one the fashion world didn't know it needed.
The A.I. Pope
Few of the artificially generated images that have flooded social media feeds were as fly as the rendering of Pope Francis in that puffer.
Jenna Lyons
If nothing else, the "Real Housewives of New York City" reboot was a platform to remind people how well she executes high-low style.
Jerrod Carmichael
Remember how many great outfits the comedian wore as host of the Golden Globes?
Prince Hussein and Princess Rajwa of Jordan
There was a lot of fashion at their royal wedding, but the bride and groom might have dressed the best.
Law Roach
He quit styling A-list celebrities. Or did he? Either way, he garnered a ton of attention for a job that's mostly behind the scenes.
Kristen Kish
She's the new host of "Top Chef," which hopefully means more opportunities to see her in top-notch tailoring.
Jimmy Butler
After the Miami Heat lost the N.B.A. championship, the forward kicked off a new season with a new (temporary) emo look that included facial piercings, black nail polish and 2007-era Pete Wentz hair.
Gaurav Gupta
The Indian couturier, who started his line some 20 years ago, was invited to show at Paris Couture Week for the first time. He also made the atmospheric blue gown Cardi B wore to the Grammys.
Troye Sivan
The capstone of his stylish year? When Timothée Chalamet and the band boygenius replicated a look from the singer's "Got Me Started" video -- a tight white tank, baggy blue pants and red undies -- on "Saturday Night Live."
Mark Zuckerberg
He bulked up. And he might have agreed to a cage match with Elon Musk?
Ariana Madix
The "Vanderpump Rules" cast member came out of "Scandoval" with a cover of Glamour -- and possibly looking better than ever.
Amy Lau in 'Beef'
As Amy, played by Ali Wong, unraveled, her changing hair and wardrobe perfectly captured her emotional state.
Karl Jenkins
May he forever be known as the man who is not Meghan Markle.
Mary Earps
With help from passionate fans, the keeper for England's national women's soccer team got Nike to issue versions of her Women's World Cup jersey after the company initially said it wouldn't.
Pedro Pascal
His rugged physique, along with paternal roles in "The Last of Us" and "The Mandalorian," helped him become the internet's daddy.
Martha Stewart
Was posing for the cover of Sports Illustrated's swimsuit issue at 81 a bit gimmicky? Yes. Should she have any regrets? No.
Chioma Nnadi
The new top editor of British Vogue, who took over this fall after rising to become a trusted deputy of Anna Wintour during her roughly 13 years at American Vogue, is the first Black woman to lead the publication.
Miuccia Prada
Close followers of fashion have said that no other designer has been more influential lately.
President Yoon Suk Yeol of South Korea
His pitch-perfect performance of "American Pie" at the White House was worthy of "American Idol."
Olivia Rodrigo
A rock star for Gen Z, she embodies her cohort's love of Doc Martens and vintage, wearing archival pieces on red carpets at award shows and other events.
Chirlane McCray and Bill de Blasio
They navigated some big personal changes -- their separation as a couple, his newly dyed hair -- with admirable transparency.
Pamela Anderson
Between her memoir, her documentary and her makeup-free face at Paris Fashion Week, she pretty much bared it all.
Barbie in 'Barbie'
Each Barbie in the film was as put together as the last.
Margot Robbie
But of all the people who played Barbie onscreen, none had as many moments on the pink carpet as Margot Robbie.
Sofia Richie Grainge
Bridal mood boards have not been the same since she wore a trio of custom Chanel dresses at her April wedding.
Ariana DeBose
Her show-opening rap at the BAFTA Awards was the definition of an earworm.
Lauren Wasser
Among the achievements notched by the model with golden prosthetic legs: a cover of CR Fashion Book, a Giorgio Armani campaign and a Women of the Year Award from Glamour Germany.
Robert Oppenheimer in 'Oppenheimer'
Fedoras, trilbies and their ilk had a bit of a boom thanks to the theoretical physicist played by Cillian Murphy.
E. Jean Carroll
At her civil trial against former President Donald J. Trump, she supplemented her testimony with a statement-making wardrobe.
Tems
Lots of eyes were on the singer at the Oscars, partly because her gravity-defying gown blocked some guests' view of the stage.
David and Victoria Beckham
The couple may be serious about their clothes, but as their Netflix documentary series showed, they don't always take themselves too seriously.
The Cockroach at the Met Gala
The cockroach owned that red carpet -- until it got squished.
Cher
She started dating a younger man and, with the release of a new Christmas album, tried to steal the holiday from another diva (Mariah Carey).
Pamela in "Saltburn"
Pamela, played by Carey Mulligan, had the clothes of Moira Rose and the hair of Grace Coddington.
Coco Gauff
The U.S. Open champion's electric separates at the tennis tournament were almost as exhilarating as her performance on the court.
Taylor Swift
Chances are she got someone you know to start wearing friendship bracelets or Kansas City Chiefs gear.
Rihanna
Though she's still keeping fans waiting for a new album, she did deliver an epic performance at the Super Bowl halftime show, where she revealed her second pregnancy while wearing a red Loewe jumpsuit, replicas of which the brand later sold -- and quickly sold out of.
The 71 entries on this list were chosen from an initial pool of some 250 submitted by Styles staff members. The larger pool was winnowed in meetings and video calls that were not without passionate debate. To those who did not make the cut, 2024 is just a few weeks away -- and we'll be watching.
Produced by Anthony Rotunno, Christy Harmon, Jeremy Allen, Minju Pak and Stella Bugbee.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MAZUR/WIREIMAGE; PHOEBE PHILO; KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; SARAH MEYSSONNIER/REUTERS; AMIEE STUBBS/SHUTTERSTOCK; COBRA TEAM/BACKGRID; JON CHERRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; PRESLEY ANN/GETTY IMAGES; UNIVERSAL PICTURES; ALEX GOODLETT/ASSOCIATED PRESS; PEACOCK; DANNY MOLOSHOK/REUTERS; LOEWE; ORION PICTURES INC.) (ST14); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HELLMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BACKGRID; AMR ALFIKY/REUTERS; CINDY ORD/GETTY IMAGES; MANAN VATSYAYANA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; ADOR; YAEL MALKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KANSAS CITY CHIEFS; DOLLY FAIBYSHEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ANDREW MILLIGAN; RICH POLK/NBC, VIA GETTY IMAGES; CHARLES SYKES/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ROYAL HASHEMITE COURT/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; JACOPO RAULE/GETTY IMAGES; PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES; HBO) (ST15) PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGORY SHAMUS/GETTY IMAGES; BERTRAND GUAY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES; STUART WILSON/BAFTA, VIA GETTY IMAGES; LAURENT BENHAMOU/SIPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS; THEO WARGO/GETTY IMAGES; JESSICA TESTA/THE NEW YORK TIMES; ERIC GAILLARD/REUTERS; SARAH BLESENER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SAM NAVARRO/GETTY IMAGES; JULIEN DE ROSA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; CHANTAL ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; VIVIEN KILLILEA/GETTY IMAGES; CHRISTIAN VIERIG/GETTY IMAGES; CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES; NORMAN & BLAKE; RENE NIJHUIS/PA IMAGES, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (ST16); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLINT BREWER PHOTOGRAPHY/BACKGRID; MELINDA SUE GORDON/UNIVERSAL PICTURES; ANNA WATTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LYNNE SLADKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS; AUDE GUERRUCCI/REUTERS; RUVEN AFANADOR/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED; TIM CLAYTON/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES; WARNER BROS. PICTURES; JEREMY MOELLER/GETTY IMAGES; AMAZON MGM STUDIOS; AHN YOUNG-JOON/ ASSOCIATED PRESS; ANDREW COOPER/NETFLIX; PETER AIKEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS; RAD MORA) (ST17) This article appeared in print on page ST14, ST15, ST16, ST17.

Subject: Rap music; Motion pictures; Designers; Actors; Professional soccer; Singers

Business indexing term: Subject: Designers

Location: Tennessee; United States--US

People: Hill, Lauryn; Robbie, Margot

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/06/style/best-dressed-people-2023.html

Title: The Most Stylish People (And More) of 2023:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899950971

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/most-stylish-people-more-2023/docview/2899950971/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2025-07-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Macy's Shuns Boycott Threat Over 2 Nonbinary Performers: [National Desk]

Author: Chen, Stefanos

Publication info: Chen, Stefanos. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/macys-shuns-boycott-threat-over-2-nonbinary/docview/2891090937/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A right-wing group that has been designated a hate group is planning to protest the Thanksgiving parade because of the inclusion of two nonbinary performers.
An anti-L.G.B.T.Q. group is organizing a boycott of Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade over performances by nonbinary Broadway actors, in the latest attempt to force companies to reverse course on social issues that some far-right groups consider too liberal.
The parade's response: march on.
Similar campaigns have led brands including Budweiser and Target to cave to activists' demands. But the parade has long had close ties to Broadway, one of the most L.G.B.T.Q. friendly industries in the city.
The group, which is called One Million Moms, says it has drawn about 33,000 signatures in support of its boycott. But it appears to have overplayed its hand, said Scott Galloway, a professor of marketing at New York University Stern School of Business.
"I think this is the easiest 'no' in the history of Macy's," Mr. Galloway said. The protesters "have vastly overestimated their leverage here."
One Million Moms is protesting the participation of two nonbinary actors: Alex Newell, the Tony Award-winning performer who stars as Lulu in "Shucked," and Justin David Sullivan, who plays May in the musical "& Juliet." Both are likely to take part in musical acts during the event, along with hundreds of other performers from Broadway and elsewhere.
Macy's declined to comment on the petition, but reaffirmed its plans to proceed as normal.
"We look forward to celebrating this iconic Thanksgiving tradition again next week," a spokeswoman said in a statement.
The actors and the producers of the shows declined to comment. NBC, the network that will broadcast the show, also declined to comment.
This is not the first year in which a gender-nonconforming artist has appeared in the parade. Kim Petras, a transgender German pop singer, performed in 2021. In 2018, the two leading women from the musical "The Prom" shared a kiss during a song-and-dance number.
Monica Cole, the director of One Million Moms, said in a statement that the goal of the campaign was to force Macy's to "no longer push the L.G.B.T.Q. agenda" or expose viewers to "liberal nonsense."
The group, based in Tupelo, Miss., is part of the American Family Association, a conservative, Christian organization with a long history of protesting media projects, including a campaign to boycott the movie "Barbie" because it included a transgender actor. The Southern Poverty Law Center, a nonprofit legal advocacy group, has designated the organization a hate group.
The parade, entering its 97th year, has included Broadway productions for more than 50 years, and is renowned for its revolving cast of towering cartoon balloons and floats. Last year, the show was watched by 27 million viewers on NBC and the streaming platform Peacock. It was also the network's most-watched entertainment program of the year, according to a spokeswoman.
But even in a progressive city like New York, companies can be tentative in their response to conservative protests, said Jed Bernstein, an adjunct professor at N.Y.U. Stern, and a former president of the Broadway League, the industry trade association.
"Brands are acutely aware that storm clouds can gather very quickly," he said, referring to the power and reach of social media.
For large companies, there's a complicated calculus involved in trying not to alienate consumers. "To respond carries risk, to not respond carries risk," he said about the petition. And once a company supports an issue, it will be expected to defend its position going forward.
"A lot of these fringe groups are drunk with power," said Mr. Galloway, after Bud Light was dethroned as the country's top-selling beer because of a boycott over the brand's partnership with a transgender influencer named Dylan Mulvaney.
But the circumstances of the parade protest are much different. For one, Macy's customers tend to live in urban, less conservative markets, he said.
"If I were advising Macy's," Mr. Galloway said, "this is an opportunity for them to say the following: Judge me by my enemies."
Photograph The parade has long had close ties to Broadway, one of the most L.G.B.T.Q.-friendly industries in New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Thanksgiving; Conservatism; Parades; Non-binary gender; Actors; Demonstrations & protests; Transgender persons

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Macys Inc; NAICS: 445110, 455110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/17/nyregion/thanksgiving-parade-nonbinary-lgbt-protest.html

Title: Macy's Shuns Boycott Threat Over 2 Nonbinary Performers:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891090937

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/macys-shuns-boycott-threat-over-2-nonbinary/docview/2891090937/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Gaza War Rages, Business Leaders, Often Vocal, Tread Lightly: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-gaza-war-rages-business-leaders-often-vocal/docview/2887186661/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It's become the norm for company executives to issue notes to employees about social upheaval. But the Israel-Hamas war presents a special challenge.
After reading the details of Hamas's attacks on Israel on Oct. 7, Brad Karp, who runs the law firm Paul, Weiss, sat at his computer and wrote a memo to his roughly 2,000 employees.
He didn't ask the firm's spokesman to draft it; he channeled his grief into a companywide email and hit send, just as he was moved to do after the overturning of Roe v. Wade and the killing of George Floyd. But as an American business leader condemning Hamas's attacks, he said, he felt surprisingly lonely.
"I was disappointed that fewer leaders than I anticipated spoke out emphatically, clearly and with moral clarity on this issue," Mr. Karp said. "If you asked any of these leaders whether they were horrified by the slaughter of innocent civilians by Hamas, they would tell you privately that they were horrified."
Company executives have, over the past month, faced a dilemma that they're by now well practiced in confronting: whether to engage with a large humanitarian or social issue, in this case the war between Israel and Hamas. This time, many say, responding -- with a public statement, internal discussion, a donation or even social media parameters for staff members -- presents complexities that they have not experienced when wading into other recent social crises.
"If you release a statement about the damage of a hurricane, there's nobody who will say, 'Actually that area of the country deserved a hurricane,"' said Iliya Rybchin, a partner at the consultancy Elixirr, who has advised dozens of Fortune 500 chief executives.
More than 200 American businesses have issued statements condemning the Hamas attacks in Israel that killed roughly 1,400 people, according to a tracker from Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a professor at the Yale School of Management. Some business leaders made donations to humanitarian organizations and pointed their employees to company-sponsored mental health resources. A smaller number said they also communicated to their staff about the rising death toll of civilians in Gaza.
Adding to the complexities that executives are weighing, many American companies have financial ties to Israel but few have business interests to consider in Gaza, Mr. Sonnenfeld noted.
"No company does business in Gaza -- as opposed to, say, in Russia, where there are 1,500 major companies doing business," he said, comparing this war with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. "It's zero in Gaza."
Still, there is clear pressure to say something, partly because of the precedent set over the last several years, when many executives established a pattern of weighing in on social and political upheaval. In a Morning Consult poll of more than 2,000 Americans, conducted in mid-October, 58 percent said businesses should make a statement "condemning violence and loss of life" resulting from Hamas's attacks, and 62 percent said companies should make humanitarian donations.
"It's unlike any other topic I've seen in a decade of advising companies on these themes," said Joelle Emerson, founder of Paradigm, a firm that has worked with more than 1,000 companies on diversity, equity and inclusion. "A lot of companies might not feel they have the context to comment intelligently on what's happening."
Even as the pressure for companies to comment on social issues accelerates, reasons for them to be reticent are also increasingly clear. Andrew Ward, a management professor at Lehigh University's College of Business, noted that chief executives who were politically vocal sometimes drew negative attention to their businesses, which could affect workers. There are also financial considerations to wading in.
Gabe Zichermann, who runs workshops for companies on discussing contentious issues, said the protest against Bud Light this year after it hired a transgender influencer was "a watershed moment in corporate activism." He added: "The boycott was able to really impact the company's earnings very quickly. That's steering people toward public neutrality."
A handful of executives who condemned Hamas's violence did so immediately and forcefully. David Solomon, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, wrote to his staff in Tel Aviv on Oct. 8, the day after the attack. "The dynamics in the Middle East have always been difficult and complex," he wrote. "But, these attacks are terrorism and violate our most fundamental of values."
At Warner Bros. Discover, David Zaslav, the chief executive, told his staff that he was "shocked and saddened" by the attacks, which he cited as "the deadliest in Jewish history since the Holocaust." JPMorgan Chase's statement called the war "a terrible tragedy."
David Barrett, who runs the software company Expensify, which has roughly 140 employees, explained that before he issued an internal response to the war, he called meetings for his human resources leaders to discuss the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and review its historical and geopolitical context.
"We're not historians," Mr. Barrett said. "A lot of us didn't understand the issue very well, didn't understand the history, didn't understand the kind of impact it was having on people."
Mr. Barrett said he felt more confident in responding to the conflict -- which he did by internally condemning Hamas's attacks and discussing the violence that people in Gaza were experiencing -- because of the many times he and his company had addressed complicated social issues.
"We've had political upheaval, a war in Russia, Roe v. Wade, Covid," he said.
But across many American workplaces, employees have looked to their executives for compassionate responses to the war and felt dismayed.
Michael Pentz, a public defender in Los Angeles, waited for the Los Angeles County Public Defender's Office to release a statement mourning lives lost in the conflict. He recalled how his boss had rushed to address other social issues, such as last year's leaked audio of racist remarks from Los Angeles City Council members. Mr. Pentz and his fellow Jewish colleagues visited one another's offices to vent the pain they've felt about their department's silence. Mr. Pentz wrote to his department head, Ricardo Garcia, on Nov. 2.
"I've been waiting, with all the measured patience my broken heart can manage," he wrote in an email. "I know that some have advised you that it is best to steer clear of comment. Sometimes that is an option."
Shortly after, Mr. Garcia released a taped statement: "Please don't mistake my silence until now as indifference," he said, in a recording obtained by The New York Times. "My heart has been heavy -- I've been sad as I experience this with all of you, and I feel what's going on inside the office."
Mr. Garcia said in a statement to The Times that his office had "not been immune to the strong feelings and differing allegiances" brought out by the war.
As business leaders grapple with their responses to the war, some are also facing an uptick of employee reports of harassment and discrimination, particularly of antisemitism, said Lisa Banks, founding partner of the employment law firm Katz Banks Kumin.
There has also been an increase in anti-Muslim incidents in American workplaces since the war broke out, according to the Council on American-Islamic Relations. The organization received 774 requests for assistance and reports of anti-Muslim incidents from Oct. 7 to Oct. 24, a 245 percent increase from the average for a similar period in 2022.
At a New Jersey branch of the cosmetics store Ulta, for example, a Muslim employee said a colleague had threatened to lynch her, according to the council's New Jersey chapter. At a hospital in Maryland, a Muslim doctor was temporarily removed from her rotation when a supervisor said she was uncomfortable with the physician's hijab and dress, which were red, green and black, like the Palestinian flag.
The professional consequences that some institutional leaders have faced for their comments about the war underscore the stakes of the discussion. Dr. Benjamin Neel, the director of the Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Health, was suspended over messages on social media that many complained were anti-Palestinian. That was shortly after a physician at NYU Langone's Long Island hospital was suspended over Instagram reposts that referred to Hamas's Oct. 7 attacks as "liberation." NYU Langone did not respond to requests for comment.
"It is a travesty that after a stellar career fighting the battle against cancer that a long-tenured and world-renowned research scientist can be unceremoniously dumped based on tweets," said Milton Williams, a lawyer for Dr. Neel.
Still, some business leaders have said that in responding to the war they had been able to engage in constructive conversations with employees who held various political views.
Patrick Kinsel, chief executive of the tech company Notarize, which has roughly 250 employees in the United States, put out several statements over email and Slack about the war and rising threats of antisemitism around the globe, including one on Oct. 13 that read: "To my Jews, love you."
Several Muslim employees reached out to Mr. Kinsel to say their communities were also suffering. He has since put statements on Slack acknowledging the many killed in Gaza because of the war.
"It's been a very healthy dialogue," Mr. Kinsel said.
And to Mr. Kinsel, his efforts to keep addressing the conflict are important to the business itself. "It's been proven that diverse communities are more successful," he explained. "It's not only about an aspiration. It's literally in our self-interest."
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA LUCIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) This article appeared in print on page A1, A11.

Subject: Councils; Muslims; Law firms; Employees; Humanitarianism; Social networks; Executives; Antisemitism; Violence; Terrorism; Business community; Palestinian people; War; Arab Israeli relations; Jewish people

Business indexing term: Subject: Law firms Employees Social networks Executives Business community

Location: Russia; United States--US; Israel; New Jersey; Gaza Strip; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/08/business/workplace-middle-east.html

Title: As Gaza War Rages, Business Leaders, Often Vocal, Tread Lightly:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 9, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2887186661

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-gaza-war-rages-business-leaders-often-vocal/docview/2887186661/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Does the Boss Need to Weigh In on the War in the Middle East?

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/does-boss-need-weigh-on-war-middle-east/docview/2887123665/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
After reading the details of Hamas’ attacks on Israel on Oct. 7, Brad Karp, who runs the law firm Paul, Weiss, sat at his computer and wrote a memo to his roughly 2,000 employees.
He didn’t ask the firm’s spokesperson to draft it; he channeled his grief into a companywide email and hit send, just as he was moved to do after the overturning of Roe v. Wade and the killing of George Floyd. But as an American business leader condemning Hamas’ attacks, he said, he felt surprisingly lonely.
“I was disappointed that fewer leaders than I anticipated spoke out emphatically, clearly and with moral clarity on this issue,” Karp said. “If you asked any of these leaders whether they were horrified by the slaughter of innocent civilians by Hamas, they would tell you privately that they were horrified.”
Company executives have, over the past month, faced a dilemma that they’re by now well practiced in confronting: whether to engage with a large humanitarian or social issue — in this case, the war between Israel and Hamas. This time, many say, responding — with a public statement, internal discussion, a donation or even social media parameters for staff members — presents complexities that they have not experienced when wading into other recent social crises.
“If you release a statement about the damage of a hurricane, there’s nobody who will say, ‘Actually, that area of the country deserved a hurricane,’” said Iliya Rybchin, a partner at the consultancy Elixirr, who has advised dozens of Fortune 500 CEOs.
More than 200 U.S. businesses have issued statements condemning the Hamas attacks in Israel that killed roughly 1,400 people, according to a tracker from Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a professor at the Yale School of Management. Some business leaders made donations to humanitarian organizations and pointed their employees to company-sponsored mental health resources. A smaller number said they also communicated to their staff about the rising death toll of civilians in the Gaza Strip.
Adding to the complexities that executives are weighing, many U.S. companies have financial ties to Israel, but few have business interests to consider in Gaza, Sonnenfeld noted.
“No company does business in Gaza — as opposed to, say, in Russia, where there are 1,500 major companies doing business,” he said, comparing this war with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. “It’s zero in Gaza.”
Still, there is clear pressure to say something, partly because of the precedent set over the last several years, when many executives established a pattern of weighing in on social and political upheaval. In a Morning Consult poll of more than 2,000 Americans, conducted in mid-October, 58% said businesses should make a statement “condemning violence and loss of life” resulting from Hamas’ attacks, and 62% said companies should make humanitarian donations.
“It’s unlike any other topic I’ve seen in a decade of advising companies on these themes,” said Joelle Emerson, founder of Paradigm, a firm that has worked with more than 1,000 companies on diversity, equity and inclusion. “A lot of companies might not feel they have the context to comment intelligently on what’s happening.”
Even as the pressure for companies to comment on social issues accelerates, reasons for them to be reticent are also increasingly clear. Andrew Ward, a management professor at Lehigh University’s College of Business, noted that CEOs who were politically vocal sometimes drew negative attention to their businesses, which could affect workers. There are also financial considerations to wading in.
Gabe Zichermann, who runs workshops for companies on discussing contentious issues, said the protest against Bud Light this year after it hired a transgender influencer was “a watershed moment in corporate activism.” He added, “The boycott was able to really impact the company’s earnings very quickly. That’s steering people toward public neutrality.”
A handful of executives who condemned Hamas’ violence did so immediately and forcefully. David Solomon, CEO of Goldman Sachs, wrote to his staff in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Oct. 8, the day after the attack. “The dynamics in the Middle East have always been difficult and complex,” he wrote. “But, these attacks are terrorism and violate our most fundamental of values.”
At Warner Bros. Discover, David Zaslav, the CEO, told his staff that he was “shocked and saddened” by the attacks, which he cited as “the deadliest in Jewish history since the Holocaust.” JPMorgan Chase’s statement called the war “a terrible tragedy.”
David Barrett, who runs the software company Expensify, which has roughly 140 employees, explained that before he issued an internal response to the war, he called meetings for his human resources leaders to discuss the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and review its historical and geopolitical context.
“We’re not historians,” Barrett said. “A lot of us didn’t understand the issue very well, didn’t understand the history, didn’t understand the kind of impact it was having on people.”
Barrett said he felt more confident in responding to the conflict — which he did by internally condemning Hamas’ attacks and discussing the violence that people in Gaza were experiencing — because of the many times he and his company had addressed complicated social issues.
“We’ve had political upheaval, a war in Russia, Roe v. Wade, COVID,” he said.
But across many U.S. workplaces, employees have looked to their executives for compassionate responses to the war and felt dismayed.
Michael Pentz, a public defender in Los Angeles, waited for the Los Angeles County Public Defender’s Office to release a statement mourning lives lost in the conflict. He recalled how his boss had rushed to address other social issues, such as last year’s leaked audio of racist remarks from Los Angeles City Council members. Pentz and his fellow Jewish colleagues visited one another’s offices to vent the pain they’ve felt about their department’s silence. Pentz wrote to his department head, Ricardo Garcia, on Nov. 2.
“I’ve been waiting, with all the measured patience my broken heart can manage,” he wrote in an email. “I know that some have advised you that it is best to steer clear of comment. Sometimes that is an option.”
Shortly after, Garcia released a taped statement: “Please don’t mistake my silence until now as indifference,” he said, in a recording obtained by The New York Times. “My heart has been heavy. I’ve been sad as I experience this with all of you, and I feel what’s going on inside the office.”
Garcia said in a statement to the Times that his office had “not been immune to the strong feelings and differing allegiances” brought out by the war.
As business leaders grapple with their responses to the war, some are also facing an uptick of employee reports of harassment and discrimination, particularly of antisemitism, said Lisa Banks, founding partner of the employment law firm Katz Banks Kumin.
There has also been an increase in anti-Muslim incidents in U.S. workplaces since the war broke out, according to the Council on American-Islamic Relations. The organization received 774 requests for assistance and reports of anti-Muslim incidents from Oct. 7 to Oct. 24, a 245% increase from the average for a similar period in 2022.
At a New Jersey branch of the cosmetics store Ulta, for example, a Muslim employee said a colleague had threatened to lynch her, according to the council’s New Jersey chapter. At a hospital in Maryland, a Muslim doctor was temporarily removed from her rotation when a supervisor said she was uncomfortable with the physician’s hijab and dress, which were red, green and black, like the Palestinian flag.
The professional consequences that some institutional leaders have faced for their comments about the war underscore the stakes of the discussion. Dr. Benjamin Neel, the director of the Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Health, was suspended over messages on social media that many complained were anti-Palestinian. That was shortly after a physician at NYU Langone’s Long Island hospital was suspended over Instagram reposts that referred to Hamas’ Oct. 7 attacks as “liberation.” NYU Langone did not respond to requests for comment.
“It is a travesty that after a stellar career fighting the battle against cancer that a long-tenured and world-renowned research scientist can be unceremoniously dumped based on tweets,” said Milton Williams, a lawyer for Neel.
Still, some business leaders have said that in responding to the war, they had been able to engage in constructive conversations with employees who held various political views.
Patrick Kinsel, CEO of the tech company Notarize, which has roughly 250 employees in the United States, put out several statements over email and Slack about the war and rising threats of antisemitism around the globe, including one Oct. 13 that read, “To my Jews, love you.”
Several Muslim employees reached out to Kinsel to say their communities were also suffering. He has since put statements on Slack acknowledging the many killed in Gaza because of the war.
“It’s been a very healthy dialogue,” Kinsel said.
And to Kinsel, his efforts to keep addressing the conflict are important to the business itself. “It’s been proven that diverse communities are more successful,” he explained. “It’s not only about an aspiration. It’s literally in our self-interest.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Councils; Muslims; Employees; Law firms; Humanitarianism; Social networks; Antisemitism; Violence

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Law firms Social networks

Location: Middle East; Russia; New York; United States--US; Israel; New Jersey; Gaza Strip; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Hamas; Banks, Jillian; New York University Langone Health; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Defense And Military Forces; Civilian Casualties; Jews And Judaism; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Jpmorgan Chase & Company; United States; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Yale University; Ukraine; Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison; Solomon, David Z; Solomon, David M; Palestinians; Israel; Politics And Government; Roe V Wade (Supreme Court Decision); Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Hiring And Promotion; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Social Media; City Councils; Instagram Inc; Muslims And Islam; Cyberharassment; Boycotts; Lehigh University; Muslim Americans; Discrimination; Tel Aviv (Israel); Executives And Management (Theory); Emerson, Joelle; Sonnenfeld, Jeffrey A; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Middle East; Warner Brothers; Local Government; Law And Legislation; International Relations; Legal Profession; Rumors And Misinformation; New Jersey; Workplace Environment; Deaths (Fatalities); Abortion; Polls And Public Opinion; Corporate Social Responsibility; Gaza Strip; Lynching; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Labor And Jobs; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Anti Semitism; Instant Messaging; Russia; Council On American Islamic Relations; Business; Colleges And Universities; Doctors; Terrorism; Karp, Brad S; New York Times

Title: Does the Boss Need to Weigh In on the War in the Middle East?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-08T20:54:38Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2887123665

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/does-boss-need-weigh-on-war-middle-east/docview/2887123665/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 8, 2023

Last updated: 2025-09-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Helen Williams, 87, Trailblazing Model: [Biography]

Author: Green, Penelope

Publication info: Green, Penelope. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/helen-williams-87-trailblazing-model/docview/2885704546/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: She was one of the most photographed Black models of the 1950s and '60s, seen mainly in magazines, like Ebony and Jet, aimed at the Black middle class.
Swan-necked and with an arched-eyebrow hauteur, Helen Williams was the aspirational face of the Black middle class in the 1950s and 60s -- the most photographed, and highest paid, Black model of her era.
She was a frequent cover girl for Ebony, Jet and Tan magazines, and the face aligned with many of the products advertised within, from Kodak to Modess to Simplicity Patterns.
She was a ladylike beauty in Budweiser ads; a poised career girl smoking Kent cigarettes. She telegraphed luxury for Bulova watches and put on a sporty mien for Mum deodorant. When she spent a month in Paris in 1960, working as a house model for Christian Dior and Jean Dessès, Ebony covered the trip of "America's most successful Negro model" in breathless prose.
By the end of her visit, the magazine wrote, she had received three marriage proposals (all politely declined), including one from a French suitor who became, as Ebony noted, "so carried away by her beauty that he passionately kissed her foot, murmuring, 'I worship the ground you walk on, mademoiselle."'
Yet as she told a reporter in 1965, "Why can't we Negroes be recognized in our own backyards?"
Helen Williams, often described as the first Black supermodel, who paved the way for models like Naomi Sims, Pat Cleveland and others who broke barriers in mainstream fashion, died at 87 on July 26 at a care center in Moorestown, N.J., near her home in East Riverton. Her death, which was not widely reported at the time, was confirmed by her cousin Osa Meekins, who said the cause was Alzheimer's disease.
Like everything else in America during the postwar years -- and beyond -- media and the advertising that supported it were often segregated. The success of Ebony magazine, which began publishing in the 1940s, however, showed the buying power of the Black consumer, and so-called mainstream companies began advertising there.
"They realized that Black people had money, too," said Fath Ruffins, curator of African American history and culture at the National Museum of American History at the Smithsonian in Washington. "It became safe to attract Black people. Helen is part of that process. She is from the generation who grew up in and worked as an adult in a segregated environment."
Outside of racial stereotypes like Aunt Jemima and Uncle Ben, one didn't see many Black faces in ads in the mainstream press. Fashion magazines were another hurdle. When Richard Avedon photographed Donyale Luna, a young Black model from Detroit, for Harper's Bazaar in 1965, there was a backlash from subscribers and advertisers, many of whom canceled their subscriptions and orders.
Ophelia DeVore, a model turned modeling agent and charm school director, started her business, the Grace de Marco Modeling Agency, to focus on the burgeoning Black consumer market, and Ms. Williams became one of her biggest stars.
"She was very much a product of her time," said Norma Jean Darden, the fashion model turned restaurateur who was also once represented by Ms. DeVore (and who was one of 10 Black American models who participated in the so-called Battle of Versailles in 1973, when American designers faced off against French designers, another pivot point in the history of Black models). She added, "And Helen was everywhere," walking the runways of local Black fashion shows held most weekends at Black churches and community centers in and around New York City in the 1950s.
"Young girls and their mothers were following her career with great pride and delight," Ms. Darden said. (When a manufacturer of mannequins wanted to make Black mannequins, both Ms. Darden and Ms. Williams were asked to pose as models.)
What was also notable about Ms. Williams' success was her dark skin. Magazines and advertisers of the period often privileged lighter skin over darker.
"Back then they didn't want you to look too colored," said Audrey Smaltz, a Black fashion model and fashion commentator who was a contemporary of Ms. Williams. "They wanted you to have color -- and look white. They wanted 'high yellow.' We didn't get to see Black women as dark as Helen, so I think for that reason she also took off. You name it, they wanted Helen Williams."
Helen Marie Williams was born on Sept. 16, 1935, in Burlington County, N.J., and grew up in East Riverton, a Delaware River town about 15 miles northeast of Philadelphia. Her father, Ellis L. Williams, was a chauffeur; her mother, Helen (Blackstone) Williams, a homemaker.
After high school, Helen found a job as an assistant at Pagano Studios, a commercial photography studio in Manhattan used by catalogs and advertising agencies. Bert Pagano, the owner, also specialized in children's photography. Ms. Williams eventually worked as a stylist there, and often hired the models. Ms. Darden recalled being hired by her for a catalog shoot, and showing up in her typical uniform, slacks and no makeup.
"It was not a bandbox look, and Helen did not approve," said Ms. Darden. "She came from the era of gloves and matching purses and hose, with an extra pair stored in your bag in case you got a run."
Ms. Williams had a brief, early marriage to John Clayton Anderson. She married Norman Jackson, a men's clothing salesman, in 1977. He died in 2017.
When Ms. Williams retired from modeling in the 1970s, she continued styling and had her own company, H & H Fashion, with Henry Castro, a photographer, working mostly for women's clothing catalogs.
"Helen Williams was my inspiration," Bethann Hardison, the fashion model -- another alum of the Battle of Versailles -- and activist whose recent documentary, "Invisible Beauty," chronicles her history in the industry, wrote in an email. "Much respect. She was it."
Photograph Helen Williams in April 1960 in Paris, where she worked for a month for Christian Dior and received three marriage proposals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAILY EXPRESS/PICTORIAL PARADE/ARCHIVE PHOTOS/GETTY IMAGES); She was frequently on the cover of Ebony and Jet magazines in the 1950s and '60s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EBONY MAGAZINE, VIA GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY) This article appeared in print on page B13.

Subject: American history; Fashion models; Segregation; Alzheimer's disease; Middle class; Print advertising; Designers; Marriage; Magazines; Black people; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Print advertising Designers

Company / organization: Name: Christian Dior; NAICS: 313240, 315250

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/02/fashion/helen-williams-dead.html

Title: Helen Williams, 87, Trailblazing Model:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2885704546

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/helen-williams-87-trailblazing-model/docview/2885704546/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Galleries: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/galleries/docview/2876231748/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Alen MacWeeney
Through Jan. 7. New York Public Library, 476 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan; 917-275-6975, nypl.org/events/exhibitions.
Has there been another exhibition whose venue so perfectly suits its art? In one of the slender halls on the third floor of the New York Public Library's Fifth Avenue headquarters, a civic landmark, hang photos shot in the slender cars of the New York subway, another symbol of the city. Walk down the hall at N.Y.P.L., and you might be on a platform looking into a stopped train: In one car, a weary-looking straphanger scowls while a rider in a head scarf and coat looks beatific; in another, a young woman ogles a dandy.
The Irish photographer Alen MacWeeney, 84, took these 44 photos in 1977 after arriving in Manhattan to work for Richard Avedon. They nod to the subway shots of Walker Evans from four decades earlier, with one major difference: In most of them, MacWeeney cleverly enlarges two subway shots onto one sheet of photo paper; with no seam between them, they register as a continuous scene. That gives each print a subtle surrealism, as we absorb the breach in space and time across its two photos without recognizing that they began life separately: A woman rests her eyes in a car that, thanks to MacWeeney, appears to have expanded into a maze of graffitied walls; another car seems to show its inside and outside at once, like a Möbius strip.
"The chance encounter of a sewing machine and an umbrella on an operating table" -- that phrase by Isidore Lucien Ducasse is supposed to capture surrealism's signature weirdness. But what about the encounter of an umbrella with another moment in its own existence? That's the more peculiar strangeness we find in MacWeeney's subway. BLAKE GOPNIK
Cady Noland
Through Oct. 21. Gagosian, 821 Park Avenue, Manhattan; 212-796-1228, gagosian.com.
Cady Noland, an exacting arranger of ready-made Americana, rarely debuts new work. Even her formidable career survey in 2018 took place not in her native United States but at the Museum für Moderne Kunst in Frankfurt. This notorious scarcity makes her sculptures an event, in the sense of sneakers or (say) vintage beer cans: Their appeal might puzzle the layperson, but thrill the collector.
This 2023 batch of sculptures, all untitled, gathers her studied red, white, blue, black and silver palette of cans and police gear into spare but menacing tableaus. Some strongly resemble work she made during the Reagan administration. One piece, an aluminum walker decorated with black straps, leather gloves and toy badges, is from 1983. Trays of Polaroids in the window sill offer installation views of Noland's work from previous decades, including veritable walls of Budweiser. Of course, many of her materials are themselves collectibles -- one sculpture pairs shiny chains and trash cans with '70s-era pull-tab Budweisers and a steel milk crate ominously stamped with the name of Pinkerton's National Detective Agency.
Other works confront the viewer with actual grenades and bullets, suspended in clear acrylic cubes, alongside badges and drink cans given the same treatment. The munitions have been drilled out and the gunpowder emptied. (Resin heats up as it cures.) The encased Buds and Cokes have been drained, too. They still contain the symbolism of a consumer culture protected with lethal force. Noland repeats herself, but then so does the country. TRAVIS DIEHL
Polina Barskaya
Through Oct. 21. Monya Rowe Gallery, 224 West 30th Street, No. 304, Manhattan; monyarowegallery.com.
Nothing much happens in Polina Barskaya's 13 new, modestly scaled paintings, which, given art's vogue for overstimulating a viewer into submission, is a relief. But then again, entire worlds churn under their softly constructed surfaces. The artist's muted depictions of herself, alone or with her husband and young daughter, can be startling, not for their voyeurism, which barely registers, but in their banality: They get in and out of bed, bathe and loaf in various states of undress. These are domestic tableaus minus the domicile; her scenes occur in hotel rooms and holiday rentals, private but transient, calm but not enough to escape anxiety.
Her concerns have an antecedent in the Intimists, the group of Post-Impressionist dissidents including Édouard Vuillard and Pierre Bonnard who, weary of the oppressive grandeur of the plein-air painters, moved their work inside, where they actually lived, transposing psychic turmoil into the intimacy of breakfast rooms and unmade beds. Barskaya's compositions are more stable than Bonnard's, but they share a vibratory ambiguity, each mark establishing the image but also disturbing it. These aren't romantic flourishes. The artist appears behind tired eyes, sunk into the far reaches of the room, an emotional distance that may as well be unreachable.
Barskaya, who was born in Soviet-era Ukraine and resides in Brooklyn, works from photos, which means the finished image is one of multiple consciousness -- the artist memorializing herself both in a specific moment and also her memory of it. What results in the translation is a minor but persistent melancholy, the realization of impermanence, an elegy for time and its evaporation. MAX LAKIN
Liz Magic Laser
Through Nov. 19. Pioneer Works; 159 Pioneer Street, Brooklyn, 718-596-3001, pioneerworks.org.
Salpêtrière Hospital in Paris is both famous and notorious. A wellspring for modern psychology and neurology -- Sigmund Freud trained there under Jean-Martin Charcot -- it's also known for popularizing the term "hysteria," a now discounted female malady. Salpêtrière is still a working hospital, though, and it serves as the stage for Liz Magic Laser's excellent film, "Convulsive States" at Pioneer Works.
The cast of the film, made in collaboration with the French journalist Laura Geisswiller, includes doctors, historians, therapists, clergy and artists. We visit a dance class for people with muscular dystrophy and gaze upon paintings by psychiatric patients. There are laboratories with beeping computer monitors and sculptures outside the hospital that conjure the troubled spirits of residents, past and present -- as well as a visit with the sculptor Fabrice Brunet, who also teaches tai chi and leads Laser through a few exercises.
Ultimately, the film and a series of eight smaller videos, with people performing various types of bodywork, explore psychosomatic disorders and how to treat them. Laser admits to her own mild afflictions -- although the doctors at Salpêtrière treat them with a shrug, rather than offering serious prescriptions. The project is interesting for showing the infinite approaches to pathology and treatment. If you're experiencing a twitch or convulsion, should you be exorcised (one priest here says he receives an occasional request to do so), or go to a yoga class or solicit medical experts? The answer is clearly tied to the time and place in which it's asked, but also who wields the power to make such decisions. MARTHA SCHWENDENER
Polina Barskaya's painting "Good Morning From Hotel Locarno" (2023) is a domestic tableau minus the domicile. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA MONYA ROWE GALLERY, NY); A detail from Cady Noland's "Untitled" (2023), which exhibits her use of ready-made Americana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CADY NOLAND, VIA GAGOSIAN; PHOTO BY KRIS GRAVES); Alen MacWeeney's "Looking Out, Looking In" (1977-79), two photographs sewn together, in his show at the New York Public Library. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEN MacWEENEY; VIA NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY); A still from Liz Magic Laser's "Convulsive States" (2023), a film shot at Salpêtrière Hospital in Paris that explores psychosomatic disorders. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA LIZ MAGIC LASER AND PIONEER WORKS.) This article appeared in print on page C12.

Subject: Somatoform disorders; Public libraries; Photographs; Surrealism; Lasers; Sculpture; Mental disorders; Painting

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Public Library-New York City NY; NAICS: 519210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/11/arts/design/art-gallery-shows-to-see-right-now.html

Title: Galleries:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 13, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876231748

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/galleries/docview/2876231748/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2873140232/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: MEDIA
Fortune's Chief Executive Will Step Down in 2024
Alan Murray, the chief executive of Fortune, announced on Wednesday that he would step down next year. In a note to staff members, Mr. Murray said he had agreed with Fortune's owner and board that he would help the company with a transition to new leadership and then leave his role at the end of April. He said that during his tenure, Fortune had been established as an independent company, expanded its audience and revenue, and "produced three straight years of profits." Mr. Murray, 68, joined Fortune as the top editor in 2014. Before he joined Fortune, he was the president of the Pew Research Foundation and worked at The Wall Street Journal for nearly 20 years. He said in his note on Wednesday that he had no plans to retire after he stepped down and that Mr. Jiaravanon had asked him to consider staying on in a different role. KATIE ROBERTSON
AUTOMOBILES
Hyundai and Kia to Use Tesla's Charging System
Hyundai and Kia say that they are adopting North American Charging Standard ports for their electric vehicles in the U.S. and Canada, which will give the vehicles access to thousands of Tesla Superchargers across the two countries and Mexico. Tesla's Superchargers are coveted by other automakers because it has more direct current fast-charging plugs in the U.S. than any other network, and its stations are in prime locations along freeway travel corridors. Hyundai Motor North America said Thursday that new Hyundai electric vehicles in the U.S. will come with the N.A.C.S. port starting in 2024's fourth quarter. It will begin in Canada in the first half of 2025. Hyundai's luxury brand, Genesis, will use the ports. Kia said it plans to build the port into new electric vehicles sold in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, also in the fourth quarter of next year. ASSOCIATED PRESS
SPIRITS
Constellation Lifts Targets for Second-Quarter Profit
Constellation Brands raised its annual profit target on Thursday after higher prices and strong demand for its beers and spirits drove sales and profits in the second quarter. Alcohol producers like Constellation and Brown-Forman have benefited from increasing prices, helping offset steeper raw material costs. Constellation also raised the annual sales forecast for its beer business. Its Modelo Especial and Corona brand beers and premium wine labels Meiomi and Kim Crawford retained demand despite a broader consumer slowdown in the U.S. Modelo Especial's dollar share at retail outlets was 8.5 percent, while that of Anheuser-Busch InBev's Bud Light was 8.1 percent this year. Constellation now expects fiscal 2024 comparable earnings per share between $ 12.00 and $ 12.20, as against its previous forecast of profit between $ 11.70
Credit: By Katie Robertson and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Profits; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Profits Breweries

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/04/business/06bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2873140232

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2873140232/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Impeachment Hearing Showcases Witnesses With Little to Present: [National Desk]

Author: Broadwater, Luke

Publication info: Broadwater, Luke. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/impeachment-hearing-showcases-witnesses-with/docview/2869848349/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a chaotic session, Republicans accused the president of crime and corruption, but even their witnesses said the case for impeachment hadn't been made.
The first hearing in House Republicans' impeachment inquiry into President Biden featured their star witnesses testifying that they lacked proof that he committed impeachable offenses, multiple procedural skirmishes the G.O.P. majority nearly lost and, at times, nearly a dozen empty Republican seats.
What it did not include was any new information about Mr. Biden's conduct -- or any support for Republicans' accusations that he had entered into corrupt overseas business deals.
"If the Republicans had a smoking gun or even a dripping water pistol, they would be presenting it today," said Representative Jamie Raskin of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Oversight Committee. "But they've got nothing on Joe Biden."
Top House Republicans are eyeing potential impeachment charges of bribery and abuse of power against Mr. Biden, and they have released more than 700 pages from the confidential tax investigation into his son Hunter Biden. But the G.O.P. has struggled so far to link Hunter Biden's business activity to his father. Despite their review of more than 12,000 pages of bank records and 2,000 pages of suspicious activity reports, none of the material released so far shows any payment to the president.
Representative James R. Comer, Republican of Kentucky and the chairman of the Oversight Committee, said his panel would continue to search for more evidence against Mr. Biden. As the hearing ended, Mr. Comer said he was authorizing subpoenas for the personal bank records of Hunter Biden and James Biden, the president's brother, and their affiliated companies.
"One of those steps is gaining insight into where the Bidens' foreign money ended up, for what purposes," Mr. Comer said.
For now, though, even some witnesses House Republicans handpicked to testify on Thursday conceded that lawmakers had not accumulated the evidence needed to support an impeachment charge.
"I am not here today to even suggest that there was corruption, fraud or any wrongdoing," said Bruce G. Dubinsky, a forensic accountant. "In my opinion, more information needs to be gathered and assessed before I would make such an assessment."
Likewise, Jonathan Turley, a professor at George Washington University's law school, told the panel that while he considered an inquiry warranted, "I do not believe that the current evidence would support articles of impeachment."
"That is something that an inquiry has to establish," he said.
The witnesses' tone stood in stark contrast to that set by the committee's Republicans, who for months have leveled accusations against what they called the "Biden crime family."
In his opening statement, Mr. Comer promised to bring forward more than two dozen pieces of evidence that would reveal "Joe Biden's corruption and abuse of public office."
Representative Lauren Boebert, Republican of Colorado, accused Mr. Biden of engaging in "pay-to-play schemes" and "shady foreign business deals."
In a video promoting the hearing, Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, Republican of Georgia, called Mr. Biden "the most corrupt president in the history of the United States."
But even as the hearing was underway, some Republicans privately fretted that Mr. Comer did not appear in control of the proceedings and had undercut his own narrative by calling witnesses who did not fully support it. Speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid publicly criticizing colleagues, one senior House Republican aide called the session disastrous.
Instead of a deep dive into alleged wrongdoing by a president, the hourslong hearing mostly devolved into a partisan brawl.
Shortly after the session was gaveled in, Democrats moved to disrupt the Republican narrative.
Mr. Raskin and Representative Kweisi Mfume, also a Maryland Democrat, tried to force the committee to issue subpoenas to Rudolph W. Giuliani, former President Donald J. Trump's personal lawyer, and his associate Lev Parnas.
Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Parnas tried to investigate Hunter Biden's overseas business dealings for years without success. Mr. Parnas has now renounced the effort, writing to the committee, "There has never been any factual evidence, only conspiracy theories."
But Republicans voted to block the subpoenas -- though not before nearly losing the vote because there were initially not enough of them present in the hearing room to defeat it.
At one point, Mr. Mfume held up a sign that said, "Where is Rudy?"
The hearing occurred on an extraordinarily busy day in Congress as internal dysfunction among House Republicans threatened to cause a government shutdown by the weekend. Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi had a countdown clock next to him during his questioning showing the time ticking down before the midnight Saturday deadline to keep funding flowing.
Democrats also engaged in some mocking of the investigation.
Senator John Fetterman, Democrat of Pennsylvania, had his staff drop off a case of Bud Light for the Republicans, sarcastically congratulating them "as they embark on their historic impeachment journey."
And the White House blasted out emails every hour arguing that Republicans were trying to distract the public as Congress lurches toward a government shutdown.
"The consequences for the American people will be very damaging -- from lost jobs, to troops working without pay, to jeopardizing important efforts to fight fentanyl, deliver disaster relief, provide food assistance and more," a White House spokeswoman, Sharon Yang, wrote. "Nothing can distract from that."
Photograph Representatives Jamie Raskin, left, and James Comer at the first hearing of the impeachment inquiry in to President Biden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENT NISHIMURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Committees; Presidents; Government shutdowns; Impeachment; Scandals; Corruption

Business indexing term: Subject: Government shutdowns

Location: Maryland; United States--US

People: Biden, Hunter; Raskin, Jamie; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/28/us/politics/biden-impeachment-hearing.html

Title: Impeachment Hearing Showcases Witnesses With Little to Present:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 29, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869848349

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/impeachment-hearing-showcases-witnesses-with/docview/2869848349/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 29, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Some Businesses Are Trying 'Anti-Woke' Messaging: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Nerkar, Santul

Publication info: Nerkar, Santul. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-businesses-are-trying-anti-woke-messaging/docview/2865980508/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A number of companies -- from clothing to pet care -- are trying to appeal to customers who think corporate America is pushing a liberal agenda.
Jonathan Isaac is a forward for the National Basketball Association's Orlando Magic, but he is perhaps better known as someone who chose not to protest police brutality against Black Americans during a summer of widespread activism involving racial injustice.
Mr. Isaac, who is Black, turned that singular moment in July 2020 -- when he decided not to join many other N.B.A. players in kneeling during the national anthem as the league restarted in a Covid "bubble" setting in Orlando, Fla. -- into a platform as a conservative political activist. In 2022, he spoke at a rally of Christian nationalists and anti-vaccine Americans and wrote a book about why he did not join the protest. This year, he started Unitus, an apparel company centered on "faith, family and freedom."
"I wanted my values to be represented in the marketplace, especially when it came to sports and leisure wear," Mr. Isaac said in an interview.
Most companies used to do everything they could to avoid political controversies and, by extension, risk alienating potential customers. No longer. Seemingly everything in the United States is political now, including where you shop for socks and leggings.
Companies like Anheuser-Busch and Target have recently faced backlash from the right over marketing and advertising decisions that were seen as a liberal Trojan horse: Anheuser-Busch for a transgender influencer's promotion of Bud Light and Target for its Pride Month displays.
Unitus is one of a growing number of companies -- from clothing retailers to pet care businesses -- trying to appeal to those who have recoiled from what they see as corporate America pushing a progressive, liberal agenda. Unitus is featured on PublicSq., an online marketplace aimed at promoting companies it calls "pro-life," "pro-family" and "pro-freedom." PublicSq. began in July 2022 and now has more than 65,000 small businesses on its platform, noting a spike in numbers after the Bud Light and Target disputes.
The platform offers "a nice, refreshing sort of break" from companies that have voiced more progressive views, said Michael Seifert, the founder and chief executive of PublicSq., mentioning businesses like Target, Ben & Jerry's and Bank of America.
Since Donald J. Trump was elected president in 2016, large corporations have faced heightened scrutiny -- both from potential customers and their own employees -- concerning their values. This includes everything from how companies publicly reacted to policies like Mr. Trump's ban on immigration from several Muslim-majority countries to political donations by companies or their top executives.
In turn, many companies made public declarations in support of diversity and inclusion. In 2018, Nike teamed up on an ad campaign with the former N.F.L. player Colin Kaepernick, who had started a movement of athletes kneeling to protest police brutality against Black Americans. After a Minneapolis police officer murdered George Floyd in 2020, many companies pledged financial support to and released statements of solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. In 2022, proposed legislation in Florida that opponents viewed as anti-L.G.B.T.Q. faced corporate resistance.
Tracy Rank-Christman, a professor of marketing at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, said the more leftward turn of some major companies in the mainstream could be driving away those with more conservative views.
"Some of these consumers are essentially having either a boycott or backlash to these brands that are engaging in behaviors that do not align with their values," said Ms. Rank-Christman, who studies consumer psychology.
What's driving the backlash is nothing new. According to research from Ms. Rank-Christman and other academics, consumers with what are known as "stigmatized identities" often take collective action against a company that they feel is attacking that identity. It has happened in the past with companies like Chick-fil-A, which drew criticism from the left for its support of conservative causes. In this case, Ms. Rank-Christman said, that identity is on the political right.
Those same views, however, are squarely within the mainstream on PublicSq. Mr. Seifert said that most businesses on the platform did not explicitly state their views, but that every business was required to check a box and sign a commitment to PublicSq.'s core principles. They include a belief in "the greatness of this nation," a vow to protect "the family unit" and celebrate "the sanctity of life," and a belief that "small businesses and the communities who support them are the backbone" of the economy.
What's most important, Mr. Seifert said, is that businesses on the platform don't antagonize "traditional values" in the way he said some large corporations have.
Still, some companies on the platform promote their conservative bona fides more emphatically than others.
Kevin Jones is the manager of Tiny Dog, an e-commerce pet supply business that he runs with his wife, Myra, out of Kingsport, Tenn. Mr. Jones said in an interview that he had been planning to work with another pet supplier in the state to expand his business, but that he had balked after it asked him for his stance on "the whole woke agenda." That experience persuaded him to join PublicSq., he said, and market pet products to people who shared his values.
Tiny Dog features no political or social messaging on its website, but Mr. Jones said his company didn't "cater to alternative lifestyles." He also said Tiny Dog had received a significant uptick in interest since it joined PublicSq.
Others on the platform don't necessarily view themselves as being conservative or catering to a particular political ideology. Mike Ritland, who founded a company that offers goods and training for dogs and is on PublicSq., said he didn't think of his company as "anti-woke," even though the platform calls itself that. He said he just wanted a way to increase his business.
But for the companies that cater to consumers who share their conservative values, it doesn't matter if they turn away more liberal buyers, or ones who just don't want to see "100% Woke-Free American Beer" when they crack open a cold one, as is the case with Ultra Right Beer.
In the short run, these companies know they're targeting a niche market, said CB Bhattacharya, a professor at the Katz Graduate School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh. They are concerned less about maximizing profit and more about standing by their values. For a company that's genuinely concerned about catering to consumers who oppose abortion, for example, the bottom line may not be paramount.
"Even if it is just reds versus blues, they're already slicing the market in half, and they're saying, 'Well, we don't even care about the blues,"' Mr. Bhattacharya said.
But whether these companies are sustainable in the long run is a more complicated calculus. A company whose business model depends on politically disaffected consumers is subject to constantly shifting political winds, as much as it is to supply-chain issues.
The energy that fuels consumers to boycott offending companies, and seek alternatives, also tends to be fleeting. According to Mr. Bhattacharya's research, the prominent boycotts of Chick-fil-A (by liberals) and Starbucks (by conservatives) in 2012 didn't hurt those companies. In fact, sales increased, perhaps owing to the energizing of consumers who supported those companies' stances.
An issue driving consumers to seek alternatives may also lose political salience, forcing businesses that have made it part of their appeal to change their approach. Nooshin Warren, a professor of marketing at the University of Arizona, said that if L.G.B.T.Q. rights became less politicized and more accepted across the country, conservative companies would have to rethink their strategy.
Another problem is that some issues important to conservative consumers, such as not buying goods made in China, run up against economic reality. Mr. Seifert said each business on PublicSq. is asked to make its products in the United States or to get as many of its products as possible from there, but he acknowledged that manufacturing in China is necessary for some.
A spokeswoman for Unitus said in an email that it made its products in Peru and Bangladesh, but that it was "committed to never sourcing Unitus products from China."
For Mr. Isaac's part, he hopes Unitus becomes a leader in producing sleek and comfortable apparel and champions his core values: "faith, family and freedom," which, he said, are "under assault" by mainstream corporations.
"Unitus is, for me, giving people that encouragement to say: 'No, I stand for these values. These values are important to me. And now I can wear them in a stylish, high-quality way,"' Mr. Isaac said.
Photograph The N.B.A. player Jonathan Isaac declined to take a knee to protest police brutality against Black Americans in 2020. He said of his new apparel company, Unitus, "I wanted my values to be represented in the marketplace." (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM KLEMENT/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS) (B1); In 2018, Nike built an ad campaign around Colin Kaepernick, the onetime NF.L. quarterback known for protesting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBA VIGARAY/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK); Some on the left have boycotted Chick-fil-A because of its owners' conservative views, but that evidently hasn't hurt the fast-food chain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY); Bud Light faced a fierce backlash after involving the transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney in a promotion, and lost market share. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN AGOSTINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Small business; Clothing industry; Marketing; Consumers; Politics; Professional basketball; Pets; Police brutality; Breweries; Advertising campaigns

Business indexing term: Subject: Small business Clothing industry Marketing Consumers Breweries Advertising campaigns

Location: United States--US; China

People: Kaepernick, Colin

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340; Name: Chick-fil-A Inc; NAICS: 533110, 722513

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/18/business/companies-conservative.html

Title: Some Businesses Are Trying 'Anti-Woke' Messaging:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 19, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865980508

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-businesses-are-trying-anti-woke-messaging/docview/2865980508/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Uphill Promotional Battle for a New Cigarette: [Style Desk]

Author: Taylor, Magdalene J

Publication info: Taylor, Magdalene J. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uphill-promotional-battle-new-cigarette/docview/2856203086/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: You can't buy them at any bodega or tobacco shop in New York. But Hestia is getting its smokes into the hands of "cigfluencers."
On a Saturday evening in late May on Delancey Street, the rain broke just long enough for a smoke break. A group had formed outside Big Ash, a vintage clothing store where a Juicy Couture zip-up sweatshirt from the mid-2000s was on sale for $ 175. There, three young men -- who, despite being in their 20s and 30s, declined to give their last names out of fear of their parents learning they smoked -- lit up a new type of cigarette.
"I'm getting lightheaded, yay," one named Miles, 32, said.
"I'd rather smoke one or two of these a day than vape," Ben, 25, replied.
The cigarettes were Hestias, a tobacco brand that dates to the early 2010s but has only recently begun appearing between the fingers of smokers with the recent arrival of a new line of cigarettes. In June, they were conspicuous at a party on the Lower East Side for the Praxis Society, a Peter Thiel-backed group trying to build an autonomous city in the Mediterranean Sea. A crowd of artists and writers smoked them indoors at the literary salon Beckett's. Later that month, they were raffled off as a prize at Forever Magazine's Purity Ball fund-raiser, held in the Oculus at the World Trade Center.
Inside Big Ash, the cigarettes had been set out in a metal dish. The designer Mati Hays was displaying clothing with cigarette-inspired flair: an ashtray had been fashioned into a petite pillbox hat, with a vintage case affixed to a leather strap as a headband, each accompanied by a few Hestia loosies.
Hestias are not sold in New York -- the brand is seeking a New York factory willing to stamp the product for tax purposes, something it hopes to achieve by the end of the summer. Only residents of Florida, Texas, Minnesota and Mississippi can find them in stores; everyone else has to buy them online, where the cigarettes are sold by the carton. But the brand hands them out to influential New Yorkers, and occasionally Angelenos, to spread the word, turning the cigarette into a kind of cult status object for those still willing to risk the many dangers of smoking.
Jason Stewart said he began smoking the cigarettes when he was approached on social media by Hestia Tobacco's founder, David Sley, in November. He sometimes mentions the cigarettes on the podcast he co-hosts, "How Long Gone," which draws a crowd of bicoastal media types and aspiring tastemakers.
"Whenever I go out -- I was at the Celine show, all these parties this week -- and I pull them out, everyone has a question about them," Mr. Stewart said on a December episode. "Support small tobacco," his co-host, Chris Black, replied. He encouraged listeners to give their money to "a nice guy" instead of bankrolling giants like Philip Morris.
"Cigfluencing," a term the blogger Meg Superstar Princess used when she mentioned Hestia in a popular newsletter, isn't new: Cigarette makers have always relied on creating an aura of coolness around smoking to sell their products. But the old standbys like Marlboro no longer need to buy out full-page magazine spreads or put up billboards just to boost their brand recognition. Nor could they: Today's tobacco laws restrict outdoor advertising in most of the country, and a majority of social media companies similarly prohibit tobacco-related advertisements.
"It took a type of product that you can't legally advertise anymore to create the ideal influencer-marketing campaign," Mr. Stewart, 43, said in an interview.
Hestia, still little known compared with its Big Tobacco rivals, has found a different approach, too. Mr. Sley said he gave cigarettes to popular New York residents and event hosts in hopes that they would decide to mention them on social platforms. (So long as the person isn't paid to promote the product, that doesn't violate federal or social media rules.) On Instagram, a somewhat unlikely place for a cigarette brand to be, Hestia's account is a collage of memes, reshared posts from other people's pages, YouTube reviews and sightings in Paper magazine slide shows.
"I can't pay for ads, so seeding them to the people with the most valuable megaphones" is how he markets his product, Mr. Sley, 39, said. "Visibility is meaningful regardless of location, and obviously New York and L.A. are two places that are very valuable."
Mr. Sley doesn't live in either of those places -- he lives in Raleigh, N.C. -- but he said he had tapped into their scenes through figures like Mark Hunter, the well-known party photographer better known as the Cobrasnake, and through podcasts like "How Long Gone" and "Red Scare." The result is a winding network of people who all have one thing in common: They receive cartons of free Hestias.
In February, Meg Superstar Princess, the blogger, was featured in Perfectly Imperfect, a newsletter in which fellow "it" girls, influencers, celebrities and artists share a selection of lifestyle and product recommendations. "Smoking cigarettes is extremely important and cool," she wrote. "Vaping is only acceptable on like airplanes or at work ... Lately I've been smoking Hestia Cigarettes, they're not avail in NYC yet but I get them shipped special (free!) to me."
Cigarette use is the leading cause of preventable death in the United States, responsible for cancers in almost every corner of the body and nearly one out of every five deaths. Nationwide, smoking has declined drastically over the past decades, down to its current record low. Last year, around 11 percent of adults reported smoking cigarettes, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
But paradoxically, a boom in vaping over the last few years has made burning an actual paper-wrapped, plant-and-chemical-filled cigarette practically taboo. And for that reason, among people like Meg Superstar Princess, it's making a comeback. ("God Hates Vapes," a recent post on the Hestia Instagram account proclaimed.)
It may seem like a novelty to smoke a Hestia in particular. Before Hestia, the Food and Drug Administration hadn't approved a new cigarette brand in 15 years.
According to Clifford E. Douglas, director of the University of Michigan's Tobacco Research Network, a majority of tobacco products that have achieved approval since 2007 have been owned by big tobacco companies, usually by claiming that the new product is fundamentally the same as others already on the market. (Hestia was grandfathered in by making just such a "substantial equivalence" argument.)
When the tobacco giant Philip Morris supported giving the F.D.A. the power to regulate the tobacco industry, some argued it was "in part because it locked in their market position," Mr. Douglas said. Smaller competitors, he continued, "couldn't advertise in the usual ways anymore. It was harder for them to fight back in the marketplace."
This makes Hestias not only the rare underdog to emerge in the industry, but a darling among those of artisanal, anti-oligopoly tastes, including some conservatives. In July, the Fox News columnist David Marcus smoked a Hestia during an appearance on "The Megyn Kelly Show" after the brand sent him a pack. Earlier that month, Isaac Simpson, the founder of the marketing agency Will, identified the brand as part of a group of countercultural "anti-synthetic capitalists" in a post for the libertarian finance blog ZeroHedge, contrasting it with companies like Bud Light.
But for the most part, Hestia smokers seem to make up a highly specific subset of the New York City population, said Matthew Weinberger, a photographer who has noticed people lighting up the cigarettes as he captures the downtown milieu.
"The Dimes Square, or post-Dimes Square, downtown New York scene is one which has a big, real-world presence, but it's also kind of chronically online," he said, suggesting that the cigarettes could risk over-saturation on the internet.
Could Hestias become too played out in New York before they even arrive?
"The hipsters roll their eyes like, 'Oh, you're smoking Hestias at the Perfectly Imperfect party,"' Meg Superstar Princess said in an interview. "But then they all smoke them. That's how you sell a product -- first you get the hipsters who roll their eyes, and then you get everyone else."
Photograph From top: a bartender and a Hestia cigarette during a show at Elsewhere in Brooklyn last month; the musician Harry Teardrop with Hestia cigarettes and more at the show; Teardrop, right, smoking a Hestia with friends. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABBY JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Tobacco; Cigarettes; Smoking; Magazines; Market positioning; Outdoor advertising; Social networks; Vaping; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Market positioning Outdoor advertising Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/23/style/hestia-cigarettes-downtown.html

Title: An Uphill Promotional Battle for a New Cigarette:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 24, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2856203086

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/uphill-promotional-battle-new-cigarette/docview/2856203086/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Looking Past Debate, G.O.P. Candidates Are Spending Big on Ads: [National Desk]

Author: Rebecca Davis O'Brien

Publication info: Rebecca Davis O'Brien. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-past-debate-g-o-p-candidates-are-spending/docview/2854741099/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Many of the party's presidential candidates have spent heavily as they try to introduce themselves to voters. Ads for Donald Trump, meanwhile, look ahead to a matchup with President Biden.
Americans who don't live in early presidential nominating states -- that is to say, most Americans -- might not be aware of the advertising wars already underway in the 2024 campaign. For months, Republican candidates have been on the airwaves, plugging away at themes we are likely to see more of during the party's high-stakes first debate on Wednesday.
This year, they face an unusual challenge: Former President Donald J. Trump has effectively taken on the role of an incumbent. The rest of the candidates have spent tens of millions of dollars to introduce themselves to primary voters, stake out policy positions and chart a course to the general election -- only to be overshadowed by Mr. Trump.
"I think of advertising as spitting out Ping-Pong balls," said Ken Goldstein, a professor of politics at the University of San Francisco who has researched political advertising. Mr. Trump's influence, he said, means that other candidates' messages often do not reach voters: "There's this big, huge wind blowing those Ping-Pongs back in their face."
The gamble for the challengers is that the wind will shift -- or go away entirely.
"If your opponent is winning 57 percent of the vote and you have 2, there is zero percent chance you are making that difference up with advertising," said Lynn Vavreck, a professor of political science at the University of California, Los Angeles. Even in a typical election year, Dr. Vavreck said, the persuasive effects of campaign television advertisements are small, and fade fast.
"That doesn't mean everybody polling under 10 percent should stop," Dr. Vavreck said. "They need to be seen as a candidate who's taking it seriously. That includes advertising."
Here's a look at some of the themes and strategies emerging in the campaign advertising for the more than a dozen Republican candidates.
How are the candidates dealing with Trump?
Many of the Republican candidates, particularly the lower-polling ones, do not address the former president at all in their ads. Others take indirect shots at him.
Former Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and his allies are the loudest exception.
In a series of acerbic ads, a super PAC supporting Mr. Christie has ripped Mr. Trump over his indictments, his electoral losses and his impeachments. In an ad that ran nationally after Mr. Christie qualified for the debate on Wednesday, the narrator goads Mr. Trump to join him onstage: "Are you a chicken, or just a loser?"
Ads on New Hampshire and Iowa stations by the main super PAC backing Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida have criticized Mr. Trump elliptically -- for instance, asking why the former president is attacking Republican governors rather than focusing his attention on Democrats and President Biden. (Mr. Trump, one ad concludes, "is all about himself.") In another ad, a man covers his Trump bumper sticker with a DeSantis one.
Other groups not connected to any candidate have spent millions opposing Mr. Trump.
Win It Back, a super PAC that shares leadership with the Club for Growth, a conservative anti-tax group, has bought $ 5.6 million in ads, according to an analysis by AdImpact, a media-tracking firm. The ads including lengthy broadcast spots in Iowa and South Carolina that feature voters who once supported Mr. Trump but are now looking for a new candidate.
A political action committee supporting Mr. Trump, in the meantime, has turned its attention to the general election, with a 60-second ad attacking Mr. Biden.
Who is spending the most?
The main super PAC supporting Mr. DeSantis has spent $ 17 million buying television ads, while MAGA Inc, a PAC supporting Mr. Trump, has spent $ 21.4 million, according to the AdImpact analysis.
But that doesn't come close to the $ 46.2 million spent in support of Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, between his campaign and a super PAC backing him. That figure includes a huge outlay on ads planned for the weeks after Wednesday's debate.
A PAC supporting Nikki Haley has spent $ 8.4 million on ads -- about the same amount spent on ads for Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota, between his largely self-funded campaign and a super PAC supporting him. Ms. Haley's ads include broadcast spots in New Hampshire and Iowa that draw on her experience as ambassador to the United Nations, and a clip describing her as the "surprise rock star" of the Trump administration.
Perry Johnson, a businessman who has lent his own campaign $ 8.4 million, has spent $ 1.9 million on ads. One ad that ran in Illinois features him walking determinedly through a blizzard of computer-generated charts and mathematical equations, representing his love of statistics and quality standards.
Many of his online ads have included a plea for donations to get him over the threshold of 40,000 donors required to participate in Wednesday's debate. (The Republican National Committee said on Tuesday that he had not qualified.)
Pleas for donors to contribute just $ 1 -- a clear attempt at meeting the debate threshold -- also featured heavily in digital ads by SOS America PAC, which is supporting Mayor Francis X. Suarez of Miami. The super PAC has spent $ 1.7 million on ads, the AdImpact analysis shows.
What themes are emerging?
Border security, China, a touch of Ukraine, inflation, cleaning up Washington. And, of course, the culture wars.
Mr. DeSantis's super PAC has amplified his resistance to coronavirus lockdown orders, and lauds him for "pushing back against the woke left." In a video clip in one of the ads, he says: "If you're coming for the rights of parents, I'm standing in your way." The group's ads have also gone after Disney and Bud Light.
Another ad from the group aims to appeal to anti-abortion voters, quoting Mr. Trump relaying criticism that the six-week abortion ban Mr. DeSantis signed in Florida was "too harsh."
The super PAC supporting Ms. Haley ran a digital ad in May that highlighted her "pro-life" voting record in South Carolina, and criticized Mr. Biden for encouraging protests after Roe v. Wade was overturned. "We need a president who unites Americans," she says, "even on the toughest subjects."
Perhaps no candidate has made more of his opposition to abortion than former Vice President Mike Pence, and his ads have addressed this head-on. One of his longer ads focuses entirely on his anti-abortion record.
Both Ms. Haley and Mr. Pence have used the phrase "the ash heap of history" in stump speeches that wind up in their ads -- Ms. Haley in reference to the future of "Communist China," and Mr. Pence in reference to the overturning of Roe.
What's the visual style of the ads?
So far, most of the ads have been pretty "cut-and-paste," as Mr. Goldstein put it. Inspiring personal stories, a few grim shots of Mr. Biden, uplifting music, a few wives offering endorsements of their husbands, adoring crowds, American flags.
The entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy (total ad outlay: $ 334,000, plus $ 240,000 more from a supporting super PAC) has made a slightly different presentation. Unlike other candidates' campaign ads, his spots do not rely on dramatic voice-overs, but feature him in a room, speaking directly at the camera.
The super PAC supporting Mr. Scott tried another approach to introduce the candidate: ads featuring prospective voters speaking to the camera about the senator, as if speaking to their neighbor: "Have you seen him work a crowd?" "Did you see Tim Scott on 'The View'?" "He will crush Joe Biden."
Who has the best Ronald Reagan cameo?
Does a 40-year-old endorsement count? An ad for former Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas -- seeking $ 1 donations to help him reach the debate stage -- consists almost entirely of a short clip of former President Ronald Reagan, sitting at his desk in the Oval Office and addressing the camera.
"If you believe in the values I believe in, there's a man you should get to know," Mr. Reagan says. "His name is Asa Hutchinson."
Mr. Reagan had nominated Mr. Hutchinson to serve as the United States attorney for the Western District of Arkansas. The clip appears to be from an endorsement for Mr. Hutchinson in the 1986 Senate race. (He lost to Dale Bumpers, an incumbent Democrat.)
Mr. Ramaswamy invokes Mr. Reagan in a digital ad, saying the former president "led us out of our national malaise" carried over from the 1970s. Mr. Ramaswamy pledges to lead America out of its latest "national identity crisis."
Photograph A PAC for Gov. Ron DeSantis has spent $ 17 million. Ads in New Hampshire and Iowa take an indirect approach to criticizing the front-runner, Donald J. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE BUGLEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina and his allies have spent the most, $ 46.2 million, including a huge outlay planned for the weeks after Wednesday's debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORDAN GALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Ads for many candidates have appealed to voters opposed to abortion, including one ad that targets Mr. Trump for criticizing Florida's abortion law as "too harsh." (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Unlike other candidates, who often use dramatic voice-overs in their ads, Vivek Ramaswamy's TV spots usually feature him speaking directly at the camera. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN MONTERROSA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Cameras; Television advertising; Political campaigns; State elections; Presidential elections; Candidates; Abortion; Voters; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Television advertising

Location: New Hampshire; South Carolina; United States--US; Arkansas; China; Florida; Iowa

People: Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Tim Scott; DeSantis, Ron; Biden, Joseph R Jr

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/23/us/politics/advertising-republican-candidates-2024.html

Title: Looking Past Debate, G .O.P. Candidates Are Spending Big on Ads:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 23, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2854741099

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-past-debate-g-o-p-candidates-are-spending/docview/2854741099/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Political Folk Song Strikes Chord, and Hits No. 1: [National Desk]

Author: Coscarelli, Joe; Tracy, Marc

Publication info: Coscarelli, Joe; Tracy, Marc. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/political-folk-song-strikes-chord-hits-no-1/docview/2854236568/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A song by the previously unknown Oliver Anthony Music struck a chord with conservative pundits. Its quick trip to No. 1 relied on tactics that help pop stars go viral.
The unadorned video suddenly appeared on social media earlier this month: a young man with a bushy red beard and a guitar in a backwoods locale, dogs at his feet and bugs buzzing in the background. In an impassioned drawl, he sings a country-folk anthem about selling his soul "working all day," and being kept in his place by inflation, high taxes and the elites he holds responsible: "Rich Men North of Richmond."
On Monday, hardly a week after the song's release, the previously unknown songwriter and one-time factory worker who performs as Oliver Anthony Music made an unprecedented leap straight to No. 1 on the Billboard singles chart, topping pop superstars like Taylor Swift and Olivia Rodrigo as well as established country crossover acts including Morgan Wallen and Luke Combs.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Boosted early on by influential conservative pundits and media figures like Jack Posobiec and Jason Whitlock, Mr. Anthony's "Rich Men North of Richmond" was praised for its stripped-down sound and workingman relatability. "The main reason this song resonates with so many people isn't political," Matt Walsh, a podcast host and columnist for the conservative Daily Wire, wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter. "We are suffocated by artificiality." On Instagram, the mega-podcaster Joe Rogan added, "You can't fake authentic."
The song's populism unmistakably leans rightward, resulting in an original track perfectly primed for a hyperpolarized moment when conservatives perceive themselves as embattled and politics unrelentingly washes into every other aspect of culture, be it sports, movies or pop music.
"People are just angry over the way that I would say the woke universe has taken over so much of content," said Clay Travis, the talk-radio host and author of "American Playbook: A Guide to Winning Back the Country From the Democrats." "And I think what you're seeing is a backlash and a rebellion."
Mr. Travis also cited the conservative activism against Bud Light earlier this year, in which boycotts following the beer brand's promotional collaboration with Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender influencer, were followed by decreased sales and marketing executives going on leave. "What we're seeing," he added, "is a lot of people exercising their purchasing power."
Scrutiny over the song's origins, ideological intent and disaffected lyrics, which include references to welfare cheats and pedophile politicians, stoked interest from all sides, pushing "Rich Men North of Richmond" toward the center of the zeitgeist and the top of the charts.
It's a pattern that has played out repeatedly across popular culture this summer. "Sound of Freedom," a feature film about fighting child trafficking, was championed by conservative politicians, including Donald J. Trump, while its star sometimes promoted QAnon conspiracy theories. Its nearly $ 180 million in domestic box office receipts have already made it one of history's most successful independent films.
The veteran country singer Jason Aldean rode a wave of controversy to commercial success with "Try That in a Small Town." Following a backlash against its lyrics, which critics said promoted racist vigilantism, and after Country Music Television pulled the song's music video, which was filmed in part at a courthouse in Tennessee that was once the site of a lynching, the languishing track catapulted to No. 1 on Billboard.
But the stunning success of Mr. Anthony, whose real name is Christopher Anthony Lunsford, testifies not only to the potency of confrontational works that cater to an audience that believes it is underserved, but also to something else: the increasing savvy of promoters and fans -- including conservative ones -- who have mastered digital platforms and guerrilla marketing tactics to dominate the very culture industries that they say have marginalized them.
Interest in "Rich Men North of Richmond," which was streamed 17.5 million times on services like Spotify and Apple Music in its first week of release, partly grew in the manner of a typical viral track, according to the service Luminate, whose data fuels the Billboard charts.
Polarizing lyrics also ginned up the discourse. Mr. Anthony gives voice to the longstanding conservative critique of public assistance -- he sings of "the obese milkin' welfare" and adds, "Well, God, if you're 5-foot-3 and you're 300 pounds/taxes ought not to pay for your bags of fudge rounds" -- and links politicians to "minors on an island somewhere."
Conversation flared on social media -- "That's a big reason why Oliver Anthony went viral," said The Daily Wire's Mr. Walsh -- but there was a more targeted digital savviness at play, too. Much of the consumer activity that drove the track to No. 1 came via 99-cent digital downloads from outlets like the iTunes Store -- an outdated format that is declining in popularity faster than CDs.
Despite streaming now accounting for more than 80 percent of music consumption overall, paid downloads are weighted more on the charts, a quirk exploited regularly by pop superfans devoted to acts like Ms. Swift or the South Korean group BTS. In often coordinated efforts, they use downloads to show support and earn chart milestones that are celebrated like wins in sports or political elections.
Jaime Brooks, a musician and cultural commentator, said that since most listeners spend about $ 10 per month for unlimited access to everything on services like Spotify, those who purchase downloads are overpaying with purpose.
"You do that out of a sentimental attachment to an old way of listening, or because you're getting something else out of it," Ms. Brooks said. One such thing, she added, could be "representation for their favorite artists on the charts, which means something to them. And now you've got these people with an obvious stated interest in using the charts to give the impression that their niche beliefs or views are popular."
"Rich Men North of Richmond" sold 147,000 downloads in its first week, more than 10 times the sales of Mr. Combs's "Fast Car," the No. 2 song on the overall singles chart. Mr. Aldean's "Try That in a Small Town" benefited from a similar surge last month, with just 822 downloads the week before its music video became a culture war battleground, according to Luminate. Following the backlash, the track sold 228,000 copies.
Mr. Anthony, who did not respond to requests for comment, has attempted to float above the political fray. "I sit pretty dead center down the aisle on politics and always have," he said in an introductory video posted to YouTube earlier this month.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
He described himself as "just some idiot and his guitar," a high-school dropout who has struggled with depression and alcohol abuse. But he added that he had recently found religion and a passion for calling out the "atrocities" of human trafficking and child abuse, which he said were "becoming normalized."
"Just like those once wandering in the desert, we have lost our way from God and have let false idols distract us and divide us," he wrote on Facebook last week.
Social media and the increasing reach of low-barrier platforms like podcasts enabled both "Sound of Freedom" and "Rich Men North of Richmond" to communicate directly with their target audiences in a manner unthinkable just a short while ago, said Neal Harmon, the co-founder of the movie's distributor, Angel Studios.
"Wrote a great song, and the audience loved it," Mr. Harmon said of Mr. Anthony, adding, "The key moment is that people can stand up and do it themselves instead of answering to those who have traditionally been the ones to say what should succeed or what should fail."
The writer and musician Winston Marshall, formerly of the chart-topping group Mumford & Sons, said Mr. Anthony and "Sound of Freedom" succeeded "without the creative industry's institutional support."
This underdog mentality among conservatives in creative fields has long been a talking point and consumer motivator in book publishing, where right-wing titles by the likes of Mark Levin and Dinesh D'Souza routinely ascend sales lists.
Such books exploit concentrated promotion on one television channel -- Fox News -- and the power of a specific yet deep appeal above sales across the ideological spectrum, according to Eric Nelson, the editorial director of the conservative imprint Broadside. (Broadside and Fox News are both owned by companies led by Rupert Murdoch.)
"The less something is in mainstream media, the better it will be for the best-seller list," said Mr. Nelson.
Similarly -- and like activist pop-music supporters across the ideological spectrum -- many of those pushing "Rich Men North of Richmond," "Try That in a Small Town" and "Sound of Freedom" have encouraged a self-awareness in which financial support for a cultural artifact is part of being a good fan. "Sound of Freedom" even encouraged fans to purchase tickets for other filmgoers.
"This whole thing came out of resentment for the music industry," said Tom MacDonald, a Canadian rap provocateur who has made digital download campaigns for songs like "Fake Woke" and "American Flags" a key part of his appeal and relationship to listeners.
Achieving chart success with savvy grass roots support was the ultimate repudiation of mainstream gatekeepers, Mr. MacDonald said. "I feel like we're standing in a room right now where we're not supposed to be standing, so let's go," he added. "That's turned into a culture of its own."
Photograph Oliver Anthony's music video went viral almost immediately. His song is about being kept in place by taxes and the elites. (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Conservatism; Music videos; Culture; Ideology; Musicians & conductors; Welfare; Politics; Politicians; Musical performances; Social networks; Folk music; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120; Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/21/arts/music/rich-men-north-of-richmond-oliver-anthony.html

Title: Political Folk Song Strikes Chord, and Hits No. 1:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 22, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2854236568

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/political-folk-song-strikes-chord-hits-no-1/docview/2854236568/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Summer Visit to Aspen on the Cheap: [Travel Desk]

Author: Glusac, Elaine

Publication info: Glusac, Elaine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-visit-aspen-on-cheap/docview/2852900824/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Colorado town associated with glitzy ski trips also draws summer visitors who love hiking, biking and cultural festivals. Here's how to craft an affordable vacation in this famously expensive enclave.
Over an $ 8.50 pint of craft beer from Aspen Brewing Company, which is comparable to what I pay at home in Chicago, I realized that Aspen, Colo., is not expensive by big-city standards. It's expensive by small-town standards.
The Economic Research Institute, which compiles financial data for public and private organizations, pegs the cost of living in Aspen at 51 percent higher than the average in the United States, a little less than a city like Seattle.
As a professionally penny-pinching traveler, I try to avoid paying urban prices in the mountains. In the summer in Aspen, apart from my weakness for microbrews, I didn't have to.
For those who don't care to shop for Prada or Gucci clothing, or don't maintain elaborate second mansions here, Aspen's essential appeal lies in the outdoors -- mountains, wildlife, rivers -- which, compared with winter, when you might need to rent ski equipment or pay for mountain access, is a steal. Hiking and city bus transportation are free. Cycling, if you can avoid expensive rentals, is a bargain. Parks beckon picnickers, and free cultural attractions abound.
Over the course of three days in Aspen, I spent about $ 600 before airfare, with most of that on lodging. Here's how I cheaped out in a resort town synonymous with wealth.
Extra beds and free wheels
An annual winter visitor to Aspen, I touched down in July, astonished at how dramatic the mountains looked without fluffy layers of snow to soften their jagged edges.
From the Aspen/Pitkin County Airport, nearly four miles from downtown, the Roaring Fork Transportation Authority buses are free to and around town, saving more than $ 20 on a taxi and delivering the moral satisfaction of speeding by bumper-to-bumper traffic in a bus-only lane.
Within 10 minutes, I reached town and walked a few blocks to my Main Street accommodations at the Tyrolean Lodge, a relatively affordable, family-run hotel decorated in vintage ski gear and backcountry photos that the local Aspen Times once called "a dying breed in Aspen."
"There used to be small lodges all over Aspen owned by families and not corporations," said Pierre Wille, the general manager, whose family has owned the Tyrolean since 1970.
Fifteen of its 16 rooms accommodate five people in three beds, and all have efficiency kitchens with free coffee to help guests economize on meals. I paid $ 267 a night including taxes and fees, which, for budget travelers, is expensive for one person, but a find for families and groups, potentially knocking the price down to $ 53 a night per person. By comparison, rates at the luxury Hotel Jerome were running $ 1,275 a night. Even the more modest Limelight Hotel Aspen was charging over $ 700 a night.
"We're interested in keeping Aspen affordable," Mr. Wille said. "A ski bum can still sort of make it."
A summer bum, I was relieved to find the lodge offered free bikes. The fleet of eight hand-me-downs solidly beat the offerings at local shops, which mostly rent only electric bikes, charging $ 130 a day for e-bike rentals.
I pedaled my single-speed cruiser to the nearby Rio Grande Trail, which runs down the valley following the Roaring Fork River from Aspen 42 miles to Glenwood Springs. I breezed as far as Woody Creek, about eight miles, before turning around for the uphill return, consoling myself with extended wildflower-viewing time as other cyclists whizzed past on e-bikes.
Bus to the wilds
As skiing is to winter, hiking is to summer. Several trails take off from town, and anyone who hikes up Aspen Mountain can take the gondola back down free.
Among the stars of the Elk Mountains that surround Aspen are the "14ers," or 14,000-foot-plus peaks, including Maroon Peak and North Maroon Peak, collectively known as the Maroon Bells, about 10 miles west of town.
One look at the majestic pyramidal pair reflected in Maroon Lake at the base of the Maroon Bells Scenic Area explains why more than 300,000 visitors come here each year. To quell traffic between May and October, RFTA runs a bus ( $ 16 by reservation) to the area from Aspen Highlands, one of the four ski mountains that make up Aspen Snowmass (a free RFTA bus travels between town and Aspen Highlands).
I booked the day's first lightly trafficked shuttle at 7 a.m. on a chilly, bright morning and hit the trail to Crater Lake, 3.6 miles round-trip, for closer mountain views. Stands of aspen gave way to alpine meadows blooming with wild columbine and aspen sunflowers. The trail bisected one rock pile occupied by a family of pika, pudgy rabbit relatives who vocalized like squeaky toys.
By 9 a.m., as I descended back to the bus base, a steady stream of hikers were making their way up the trail with cellphone cameras pointed lakeside at a family of moose.
Adjusting to happy hour
While the outdoors are free, the indoors -- namely restaurants and bars -- require strategy.
"With happy hours, you're golden," advised my famously thrifty brother-in-law Chuck Leavitt, who lives near Aspen, noting the happy-hour deals that many restaurants offer during off-peak hours.
There are few locations better than Ajax Tavern, with a sprawling outdoor patio at the foot of Aspen Mountain. Its happy-hour deals slash margaritas from a nosebleed $ 19 to a reasonable $ 8. But the signature truffle fries, undiscounted, cost $ 21, and food specials like arancini at $ 15 weren't enough for dinner.
Besides limited menus, the problem with happy hours is adjusting to dining between the early-bird hours of 3 and 6 p.m., which I managed the next day at Mezzaluna. A veggie pizza ( $ 14) from its happy-hour menu provided ample leftovers for breakfast.
Lunches, thankfully, were easier. A sizable slice of pepperoni pizza at New York Pizza set me back $ 6.25. Red Fox Frozen Yogurt offers self-serve by the ounce (75 cents) so I limited myself to a $ 2 cup. My friend Tess Weaver, a writer who lives in nearby Basalt, suggested we meet at the Big Wrap for lunch, where her chicken pesto and my chicken Caesar -- both as generous as the business name implies -- cost $ 11 each.
"Most of my dates with friends are hikes, bike rides or river activities," she said, as we sat at a public table on shady Cooper Avenue and discussed spots to stage B.Y.O. après-sport picnics. "You meet people to do free things."
Cultural freebies
One considerable trickle-down benefit to the largess for which Aspen is famed is that most of its major cultural attractions are free, including the Aspen Art Museum. A few blocks from the ski hill, I toured exhibitions by the Iranian artist Nairy Baghramian and paintings by the German artist Florian Krewer before reaching the tranquil Rooftop Café, where a pick-me-up cappuccino cost $ 4.
Aspen's reputation as a cultural destination began after the Chicago businessman Walter Paepcke visited in the 1940s and envisioned the former mining town as a gathering place for artists, thinkers and leaders, an inspiration that would spawn the nonprofit Aspen Institute and the Aspen Music Festival and School. In 1946, he lured the artist and designer Herbert Bayer, who had studied and taught at the influential Bauhaus in Germany, to Aspen, where Bayer would design everything from Modernist homes to the Aspen leaf logo originally used by the local ski company.
Bayer's prolific work in textiles, book graphics and more is the subject of the year-old Resnick Center for Herbert Bayer Studies (free). A six-minute bike ride from downtown, the museum borders the 40-acre Aspen Institute grounds, which Bayer also designed. After an hour in the museum, I spent another outside with a free online guide from the Aspen Meadows resort, seeking out marble sculptures, earthworks and a topographic mural by the artist.
Next door, in a giant tent, caterers were preparing for a concert from the Aspen Music Festival, an eight-week summer series devoted to classical music and opera (through Aug. 20). Headlining performances by the opera singer Renée Fleming and other stars start at $ 75, but the calendar is loaded with free events, often performed by some of the school's more than 400 students (alumni include the violinist Joshua Bell and the composer Philip Glass).
That evening, I took a bus to the school's leafy campus about two miles out of town to attend a String Showcase, a free one-hour concert by violin and cello students who performed a range of music, from the French Romantic composer Ernest Chausson to the contemporary Turkish composer Fazil Say.
"The free events are important parts of what we do," said Laura E. Smith, the festival's marketing and communications vice president, estimating that roughly 70 percent of its programming is free. "More than a ticket sale, it's about heart and humans and enriching the world."
Backcountry day trips: $ 65
In summer, when mountain roads are free of snow, Aspen is a great base for day trips in the region, including exploring the Continental Divide on 12,095-foot Independence Pass. Extremely fit bicyclists make the roughly 20-mile ascent southeast of Aspen -- gaining over 4,000 feet in elevation -- but far more drive the twisting, narrow route on a seasonal stretch of Highway 82 that follows the cascading Roaring Fork River.
I hitched a ride with my sister and brother-in-law, who live in nearby Carbondale. Slushy ice still covered a pond ringed in wildflowers on the pass. Working our way back down the road, we parked below the pass to hike to Linkins Lake, a steep 1.2-mile round-trip in the Hunter-Fryingpan Wilderness for a lakeside picnic, and later wandered around the mining ghost town of Independence. At the Grottos, we waded into the icy river at a tumbling section known as the Cascades. We broke out a D.I.Y. happy hour at Devil's Punchbowl, entertained by jumpers from surrounding cliffs launching themselves into a river pool.
To replicate this day without freeloading, I would need to rent a car (Kayak lists them from $ 48 a day), pack a picnic (Grateful Deli's ham, turkey, Cheddar and Swiss, $ 10.50) and stock up on beer (25-ounce cans of Bud Light were recently priced at two for $ 6 at City Market grocery in Aspen), a roughly $ 65 outlay, not including gas. Rocky Mountain high: priceless.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Top, the Elk Mountains that surround Aspen include 14,000-foot-plus peaks likes the Maroon Bells. Second row: The Tyrolean Lodge is a relatively affordable option; at Devil's Punchbowl, people leap from cliffs into a river pool. The Aspen Art Museum, above, is free. The Rio Grande Trail, above right, follows the Roaring Fork River. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Trails; Composers; Art galleries & museums; Bicycles; Mountains; Skiing; Rentals; Music festivals; Musical performances; Bicycling

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Aspen Institute; NAICS: 541720

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/07/travel/aspen-for-budget-travelers.html

Title: A Summer Visit to Aspen on the Cheap:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 19, 2023

column: Frugal Traveler

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852900824

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-visit-aspen-on-cheap/docview/2852900824/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Prague: [Travel Desk]

Author: Rail, Evan

Publication info: Rail, Evan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prague/docview/2852900802/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Friday
4 p.m. | Drink in the atmosphere
Perhaps no part of Prague exemplifies the city's dizzying mix of old and new quite like the area surrounding Masaryk Railway Station, where you can gaze at the swooping curves of several neighborhood-defining commercial buildings by Zaha Hadid Architects that are currently under construction. The 19th-century train hall -- Prague's second oldest still in operation, after Praha-Dejvice -- has been spruced up as well, with new ticket counters and renovated retail spaces. Inside, the stylish new restaurant Masarycka welcomes travelers with mugs of Pilsner Urquell beer (65 korunas, or about $ 3) and great traditional meals just steps away from the platforms.
5:30 p.m. | Cool off on an island
The nearby Karlin district has blossomed in recent years, thanks to added residential and commercial developments along the waterfront and newly renovated, century-old buildings surrounding its photo-worthy public spaces like Lyckovo Square. Stroll through Karlin along Krizikova Street, the district's main thoroughfare, past Karlinske Square, one of its revitalized sites, then head to the entrance of the new pedestrian and bike bridge, which opened in July. Known as HolKa, the footbridge connects Karlin on the south side of the Vltava River to Holesovice on the north, with a midroute offramp to a long-overlooked island, Stvanice. Cool off at the island's hundred-year-old public bathing area, now called Baden Baden Stvanice (free), which reopened in 2020 after a two-decade closure.
7:30 p.m. | Sample the new brews
The home of the original Pilsner and the first Budweiser, the Czech Republic consumes more pivo (Czech for beer) per capita than anywhere else on earth, with more than 50 breweries operating in Prague today. The newest, Bohemia Goose, in New Town, serves Czech-style lagers and a full food menu focused on hearty duck and goose dishes, long part of the country's culinary patrimony. Top a thick slice of rye bread with duck liver pâté (175 korunas) or pork crackling spread (125 korunas) before feasting on a tender, slow-roasted goose leg, accompanied by sweet red cabbage and several different styles of dumplings (590 korunas). Wash everything down with a foam-capped pale or dark lager (75 korunas) tapped from the restaurant's giant, custom-built beer tower.
Saturday
9 a.m. | Choose your cafe
There's great coffee on just about every corner in the part of the Dejvice neighborhood just north of the Hradcanska metro station. One source is the intimate new bistro Sodo. Two of Sodo's owners also run the city's best food tours, Taste of Prague, which probably explains the prevalence of locally uncommon ingredients like 'nduja, Comté cheese and garlic labneh. Another breakfast spot is the larger and more established Misto, popular with laptop users and young mothers. Order poached Turkish eggs with garlic yogurt; herb oil; dukkah, the Middle Eastern seasoning; and toasted focaccia (195 korunas). Add on a flat white made with Doubleshot coffee roasters' nutty flagship Tam Dem blend (75 korunas), fill out a couple of postcards or a page in your journal, then prepare for your big day out.
10 a.m. | Avoid the castle crowds
Ranked by Guinness World Records as the largest ancient castle in the world, Prague Castle is a must-see (free entry to the grounds; 250 korunas to enter certain sites). But when you need to get away from the crowds, walk through the newly reopened (though free to enter) Jeleni Prikop, sometimes called the Stag Moat in English: a quiet and verdant strip that most tourists overlook, thanks to a semi-hidden entrance near Powder Bridge. Another less crowded space: the Southern Gardens, which are accessible from the unmarked Bull Staircase, at the south side of the Third Courtyard (marked as III. nadvori on signs). The gardens offer beautiful views over the rooftops of the Mala Strana neighborhood, and Old Town just across the water.
Noon | Savor the barbecue
Originally influenced by Czech immigrants to the Hill Country, Texas barbecue has come home, with a number of smokehouses popping up around the capital. Head back to Dejvice to try a local take on buttery smoked brisket (250 korunas for about 3.5 ounces) or a juicy pulled-pork sandwich (205 korunas) at Automat Matuska, a restaurant and taproom that was opened last fall by the leading local craft brewery Pivovar Matuska. Even vegetarians will be happy here, with satisfying dishes like the salsa-verde-topped, star-anise-inflected roasted carrots (155 korunas) and marinated eggplant with miso butter and feta (219 korunas).
1 p.m. | Explore, Shop, Hang Out
Get a feel for residential life by buying a 30-koruna ticket and taking tram No. 26 from Hradcanska 11 stops to Lipanska station, where you can explore the twin, tree-lined neighborhoods of Vinohrady and Zizkov, both home to many expatriates. Check the area's small shops for great souvenirs and take some snapshots of the huge Zizkov Television Tower, once scorned for being an eyesore and now widely considered a city icon. On your way out, stop by Boho, both a hangout cafe and a design shop, where you can buy a pick-me-up brownie (65 korunas) while trying on bracelets (1,200 korunas) from local artisans.
3 p.m. | View art underground
Visit one of the oldest sites in Prague, Vysehrad, set on a hilltop overlooking the river about two miles south of Old Town Square. Although some of the site's original structures date to the 10th century, much of the massive fortress that stands on the site today was built in the 17th century. English-language tours (190 korunas) through cavelike chambers within its citadel walls are scheduled to leave every other hour, starting at 11 a.m., though sometimes Czech and English tour groups are combined. Through Sept. 3, the tunnels and chambers feature the glassworks of Jiri Pacinek, whose pieces appeared in the 2022 film "Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery." Afterward, pay your respects to the composers Antonin Dvorak and Bedrich Smetana, the artist Alphonse Mucha, and other greats of Czech culture at the nearby Vysehrad Cemetery, before catching your breath in Vysehradske Sady, the quiet green park nearby.
4:30 p.m. | Check out designers
Don't lollygag: The Czechdesign shop on Myslikova Street should be less than a 20-minute walk to the north, but on Saturdays it's open only from 1 to 5 p.m. (it extends its business hours starting in September). Inside, you'll find products from leading local craftspeople and designers, like glass mugs from the Olgoj Chorchoj design studio (600 korunas), backpacks by Braasi (3,290 korunas), modern hand embroidery with feminist themes by Ivana Kocmanova, a.k.a. Bro., (17,300 korunas) and kitsch-but-cool "Praha" socks, showing off the Czech name for Prague (249 korunas). The surrounding neighborhood will give you plenty to explore, while bakeries like the nearby Artic Bakehouse offer chocolate croissants (70 korunas), cherry danishes (80 korunas) and coffee for late-afternoon snacks.
7:30 p.m. | Eat in a laboratory
Alma, in New Town, merges traditional ingredients with cutting-edge techniques. Recipes include ingredients foraged from Czech forests and fields, as well as unusual pickles (pumpkin, green walnuts and more) made in the restaurant's fermentation "lab." Dishes like the chuck eye steak with tomatillo, roasted paprika and tomato jus (795 korunas) feel like updated variations of classic Central European fare, and vegetarians and vegans will find flavorful options, too. Winemakers from Moravia like Milan Nestarec, a cult favorite, appear both on the wine list and in person at special events. The old-fashioned from the bar may be a little small, but it does come with an edible pine cone (285 korunas), and there are intensely flavorful nonalcoholic mixed drinks, like a lemon-and-Sichuan-pepper number (115 korunas).
Sunday
10 a.m. | Eat at a museum
While the new three-story Kunsthalle art museum, close to Malostranska station, has gained international attention since its opening early last year, a local secret is that its shiny new bistro also offers one of the city's best Sunday brunches, a reservation-only, two-part dining experience that also includes museum entry (1,400 korunas). Start with eggs Florentine, blueberry pancakes and pastries from the breakfast buffet. Go check out the exhibits, then return to the bistro for a final multicourse tasting menu, which changes weekly and may include Vietnamese-style duck soup, shrimp gyoza or reinterpretations of classic Czech schnitzels. The current show at the museum, running through Oct. 16, covers the concept of bohemia as a countercultural and artistic movement, with artworks from places like Paris, San Francisco, New York, Prague, Beijing and Zagreb, Croatia.
2 p.m. | Dream of an opulent past
Walk across the river and through the Old Town streets to Clam-Gallas Palace, a masterpiece of Baroque architecture and a former aristocratic residence, which reopened to the public after a lengthy reconstruction last fall. Despite what it says on its website, English-language guided tours (250 korunas) through the rooms are currently offered only on Thursdays and Sundays at 2 and 4 p.m., though daily self-guided audio tours (250 korunas) are supposed to become available starting in September. Gawk at the sprawling mansion's ballrooms, grand staircases, trompe l'oeil ceilings, paintings and ornate plasterwork from the early 18th century, and dream of life in the city during one of its earlier eras of glamour.
Photograph Clockwise from top: the Charles Bridge; Bohemia Goose, which serves Czech-style lagers and food; St. Vitus Cathedral inside the Prague Castle complex; Misto, a popular breakfast spot; and the Masaryk Railway Station, from which visitors can see a mix of old and new architecture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BY ANDREAS MEICHSNER) This article appeared in print on page C9.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Design; Architecture; Beer; Restaurants; Coffee; Neighborhoods; Vegetarianism; Designers; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Restaurants Breweries

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/14/travel/19hours-prague-print.html

Title: Prague:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 19, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852900802

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prague/docview/2852900802/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Target Sales Hit by Backlash Over Pride-Tied Merchandise: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/target-sales-hit-backlash-over-pride-tied/docview/2851701409/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The retailer's quarterly sales fell, in part because of boycotts over Pride-themed displays, and it cut its forecast for the full year.
Target on Wednesday said its sales declined in the second quarter, a period in which the retailer faced boycotts and right-wing backlash over its Pride Month collection. The company also slashed its full-year guidance.
Target said its comparable sales fell 5.4 percent in the second quarter, which ended July 29, versus the same period last year. It said both the number of transactions and the average transaction amount declined during the quarter. E-commerce sales fell 10.5 percent.
Despite the sales decline, the company reported higher profit margins than analysts expected, as it offered fewer discounts and reduced its inventory costs.
Target's stock closed up 3 percent on Wednesday.
In May, Target faced criticism and calls for boycotts for its displays and products tied to Pride Month, the annual celebration for the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
Those opposed to the displays had posted themselves entering Target stores and calling out Pride-related children's clothing and greeting cards. Others had thrown some of the merchandise on the ground.
In some locations around the country, the company moved Pride displays to the back of stores and re-evaluated some of its merchandise on its shelves. At the time, the company said it made the decision in the interest of employee safety.
Among the items angering some customers was a one-piece, tuck-friendly swimsuit -- a bathing suit that has extra material for the crotch area for individuals who want to conceal their genitalia. Target said it was available only in adult sizes, though some critics erroneously claimed it was being sold to children. The collection also included children's books about transgender issues and gender fluidity.
On a call with analysts on Wednesday, Target's chief executive, Brian Cornell, addressed the backlash. "As we navigate an ever-changing operating and social environment, we're committed to staying close to our guests and their expectations of Target," he said.
"At the heart of our purpose is our commitment to bring joy to all the families we serve," Mr. Cornell later said in response to a question about how the retailer was approaching inclusivity, particularly when it comes to the L.G.B.T.Q. community. "So we want to make sure Target's that happy place for all of our guests."
Target executives also said that the company saw a "sequential improvement" in foot traffic in July. That month, Target also ran promotions around Amazon Prime Day.
Spending growth has cooled somewhat since pandemic splurges in which big-box retailers like Target benefited from a significant boost in traffic. Target said it expected comparable sales to see a mid-single digit percentage decline for the remainder of the year.
Several major retailers are reporting their latest earnings this week. On Wednesday, TJX, which owns T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and HomeGoods, reported a 6 percent jump in comparable sales in the second quarter and raised its forecasts for the year. TJX said it had strong foot traffic to its stores and demand for apparel and home goods. Analysts expect comparable sales at Walmart, which reports earnings on Thursday, to rise about 4 percent in the second quarter.
Another company swept up in the current political and cultural environment in the United States, the beer-making giant Anheuser-Busch InBev, also recently reported a sharp fall in its second-quarter sales, as it counted the cost of a conservative-led boycott of Bud Light after the brand's collaboration with a transgender influencer. The company's revenue in the United States in three months through July fell more than 10 percent from a year earlier. During that period, Bud Light lost its spot as the nation's top-selling beer, to Modelo Especial.
J. Edward Moreno contributed reporting.
J. Edward Moreno contributed reporting.
Photograph Pride Month merchandise at a Target store in San Francisco in May. Sales fell 5.4 percent in the second quarter after displays drew calls for boycotts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Retail stores; Children & youth; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Breweries

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/16/business/target-sales-pride-backlash.html

Title: Target Sales Hit by Backlash Over Pride-Tied Merchandise:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 17, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2851701409

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/target-sales-hit-backlash-over-pride-tied/docview/2851701409/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Attacks on 'Wokeness' Falling Flat With G.O.P. Voters: [National Desk]

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/attacks-on-wokeness-falling-flat-with-g-o-p/docview/2846773252/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: New polling shows national Republicans and Iowa Republican caucusgoers were more interested in "law and order" than battling "woke" schools, media and corporations.
When it comes to the Republican primaries, attacks on "wokeness" may be losing their punch.
For Republican candidates, no word has hijacked political discourse quite like "woke," a term few can define but many have used to capture what they see as left-wing views on race, gender and sexuality that have strayed far beyond the norms of American society.
Gov. Ron DeSantis last year used the word five times in 19 seconds, substituting "woke" for Nazis as he cribbed from Winston Churchill's famous vow to battle a threatened German invasion in 1940. Nikki Haley, the former South Carolina governor, speaks of a "woke self-loathing" that has swept the nation. Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina found himself backpedaling furiously after declaring that "'woke supremacy' is as bad as white supremacy."
The term has become a quick way for candidates to flash their conservative credentials, but battling "woke" may have less political potency than they think. Though conservative voters might be irked at modern liberalism, successive New York Times/Siena College polls of Republican voters nationally and then in Iowa found that candidates were unlikely to win votes by narrowly focusing on rooting out left-wing ideology in schools, media, culture and business.
Instead, Republican voters are showing a "hands off" libertarian streak in economics, and a clear preference for messages about "law and order" in the nation's cities and at its borders.
The findings hint why Mr. DeSantis, who has made his battles with "woke" schools and corporations central to his campaign, is struggling and again show off Mr. Trump's keen understanding of part of the Republican electorate. Campaigning in Iowa in June, Mr. Trump was blunt: "I don't like the term 'woke,"' he said, adding, "It's just a term they use -- half the people can't even define it, they don't know what it is."
It was clearly a jab at Mr. DeSantis, but the Times's polls suggest Mr. Trump may be right. Social issues like gay rights and once-obscure jargon like "woke" may not be having the effect many Republicans had hoped
"Your idea of 'wokeism' might be different from mine," explained Christopher Boyer, a 63-year-old Republican actor in Hagerstown, Md., who retired from a successful career in Hollywood where he said he saw his share of political correctness and liberal group think. Mr. Boyer said he didn't like holding his tongue about his views on transgender athletes, but, he added, he does not want politicians to intervene. "I am a laissez-faire capitalist: Let the pocketbook decide," he said.
When presented with the choice between two hypothetical Republican candidates, only 24 percent of national Republican voters opted for "a candidate who focuses on defeating radical 'woke' ideology in our schools, media and culture" over "a candidate who focuses on restoring law and order in our streets and at the border."
Around 65 percent said they would choose the law and order candidate.
Among those 65 and older, often the most likely age bracket to vote, only 17 percent signed on to the "anti-woke" crusade. Those numbers were nearly identical in Iowa, where the first ballots for the Republican nominee will be cast on Jan. 15.
Mr. DeSantis's famous fight against the Walt Disney Company over what he saw as the corporation's liberal agenda exemplified the kind of economic warfare that seems to fare only modestly better. About 38 percent of Republican voters said they would back a candidate who promised to fight corporations that promote "woke" left ideology, versus the 52 percent who preferred "a candidate who says that the government should stay out of deciding what corporations should support."
Christy Boyd, 55, in Ligonier, Pa., made it clear she was no fan of the culture of tolerance that she said pervaded her region around Pittsburgh. As the perfect distillation of "woke" ideology, she mentioned "time blindness," a phrase she views as simply an excuse for perpetual tardiness.
But such aggravations do not drive her political desires.
"If you don't like what Bud Light did, don't buy it," she added, referring to the brand's hiring of a transgender influencer, which contributed to a sharp drop in sales. "If you don't like what Disney is doing, don't go. That's not the government's responsibility."
Indeed, some Republican voters seemed to feel pandered to by candidates like Mr. DeSantis and the entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, whose book "Woke Inc.: Inside Corporate America's Social Justice Scam" launched his political career.
Lynda Croft, 82, said she was watching a rise in murders in her hometown Winston-Salem, N.C., and that has her scared. Overly liberal policies in culture and schools will course-correct on their own, she said.
"If anyone actually believes in woke ideology, they are not in tune with the rest of society," she said, "and parents will step in to deal with that."
In an interview, Mr. Ramaswamy said the evolving views of the electorate were important, and he had adapted to them. "Woke" corporate governance and school systems are a symptom of what he calls "a deeper void" in a society that needs a religious and nationalist renewal. The stickers that read "Stop Wokeism. Vote Vivek" are gone from his campaign stops, he said, replaced by hats that read "Truth."
"At the time I came to be focused on this issue, no one knew what the word was," he said. "Now that they have caught up, the puck has moved. It's in my rearview mirror as well."
Law and order and border security have become stand-ins for "fortitude," he said, and that is clearly what Republican voters are craving.
(The day after the interview, the Ramaswamy campaign blasted out a fund-raising appeal entitled "Wokeness killing the American Dream.")
DeSantis campaign officials emphasized that the governor in recent days had laid out policies on border security, the military and the economy. Foreign policy is coming, they say. But they also pointed to an interview on Fox News in which Mr. DeSantis did not back away from his social-policy focus.
Along with several other Republican-led states, Florida passed a string of laws restricting what G.O.P. lawmakers considered evidence of "wokeness," such as gender transition care for minors and diversity initiatives. Mr. DeSantis handily won re-election in November.
"I totally reject, being in Iowa, New Hampshire, that people don't think those are important," he said of his social policy fights. "These families with children are thanking me for taking stands in Florida."
For candidates trying to break Mr. Trump's hold on a Republican electorate that sees the former president as the embodiment of strength, the problem may be broader than ditching the term "woke."
As it turns out, social issues like gender, race and sexuality are politically complicated and may be less dominant than Mr. Trump's rivals thought. The fact that Mr. Trump has been indicted three times and found legally liable for sexual abuse has not hurt him. Only 37 percent of Republican voters nationally described Mr. Trump as more moral than Mr. DeSantis (45 percent sided with Mr. DeSantis on the personality trait), yet in a head-to-head matchup between the two candidates, national Republican voters backed Mr. Trump by 31 percentage points, 62 percent to 31 percent.
The Times/Siena poll did find real reluctance among Republican voters to accept transgender people. Only 30 percent said society should accept transgender people as the gender they identify with, compared with 58 percent who said society should not accept such identities.
But half of Republican voters still support the right of gay and lesbian people to marry, against the 41 percent who oppose same-sex marriage. Fifty-one percent of Republican voters said they would choose a candidate promising to protect individual freedom over one guarding "traditional values." The "traditional values" candidate would be the choice of 40 percent of Republicans.
Steven Cheung, a spokesman for the Trump campaign, responded simply: "Americans want to return to a prosperous nation, and there's only one person who can do that -- President Trump."
Mr. Boyer, who played Robert E. Lee in Steven Spielberg's "Lincoln," bristled at having to make a choice: "It's hardly an either-or: Why wouldn't I want someone to fight for law and order and against this corrupt infiltration in our school systems?" he asked.
But given a choice, he said, "the primary job of government is the protection of our country and there's a tangible failure of that at our border."
Photograph Christopher Boyer, 63, a Republican from Hagerstown, Md., is a retired actor who says he saw his share of political correctness and liberal group think in Hollywood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHURAN HUANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Polls & surveys; Ideology; Law enforcement; Political correctness; Politics; Gender; Society; Border security; Transgender persons; Workplace diversity; State elections; School systems; Candidates; Voters

Business indexing term: Subject: Workplace diversity

Location: South Carolina; United States--US; Florida; Iowa

People: DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/06/us/politics/woke-republicans-poll.html

Title: Attacks on 'Wokeness' Falling Flat With G.O.P. Voters:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846773252

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/attacks-on-wokeness-falling-flat-with-g-o-p/docview/2846773252/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Are GOP Voters Tiring of the War on ‘Wokeness’?

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/are-gop-voters-tiring-war-on-wokeness/docview/2846828698/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When it comes to the Republican primaries, attacks on “wokeness” may be losing their punch.
For Republican candidates, no word has hijacked political discourse quite like “woke,” a term few can define but many have used to capture what they see as left-wing views on race, gender and sexuality that have strayed far beyond the norms of American society.
Gov. Ron DeSantis last year used the word five times in 19 seconds, substituting “woke” for Nazis as he cribbed from Winston Churchill’s famous vow to battle a threatened German invasion in 1940. Nikki Haley, the former South Carolina governor, speaks of a “woke self-loathing” that has swept the nation. Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina found himself backpedaling furiously after declaring that “‘woke supremacy’ is as bad as white supremacy.”
The term has become a quick way for candidates to flash their conservative credentials, but battling “woke” may have less political potency than they think. Although conservative voters might be irked at modern liberalism, successive New York Times/Siena College polls of Republican voters nationally and then in Iowa found that candidates were unlikely to win votes by narrowly focusing on rooting out left-wing ideology in schools, media, culture and business.
Instead, Republican voters are showing a “hands off” libertarian streak in economics, and a clear preference for messages about “law and order” in the nation’s cities and at its borders.
The findings hint why DeSantis, who has made his battles with “woke” schools and corporations central to his campaign, is struggling and again show off former President Donald Trump’s keen understanding of part of the Republican electorate. Campaigning in Iowa in June, Trump was blunt: “I don’t like the term ‘woke,’” he said, adding, “It’s just a term they use — half the people can’t even define it, they don’t know what it is.”
It was clearly a jab at DeSantis, but the Times’ polls suggest Trump may be right. Social issues such as gay rights and once-obscure jargon such as “woke” may not be having the effect many Republicans had hoped
“Your idea of ‘wokeism’ might be different from mine,” explained Christopher Boyer, a 63-year-old Republican actor in Hagerstown, Maryland, who retired from a successful career in Hollywood where he said he saw his share of political correctness and liberal group think. Boyer said he didn’t like holding his tongue about his views on transgender athletes, but, he added, he does not want politicians to intervene. “I am a laissez-faire capitalist: Let the pocketbook decide,” he said.
When presented with the choice between two hypothetical Republican candidates, only 24% of national Republican voters opted for “a candidate who focuses on defeating radical ‘woke’ ideology in our schools, media and culture” over “a candidate who focuses on restoring law and order in our streets and at the border.”
Around 65% said they would choose the law and order candidate.
Among those 65 and older, often the most likely age bracket to vote, only 17% signed on to the “anti-woke” crusade. Those numbers were nearly identical in Iowa, where the first ballots for the Republican nominee will be cast Jan. 15.
DeSantis’ famous fight against The Walt Disney Co. over what he saw as the corporation’s liberal agenda exemplified the kind of economic warfare that seems to fare only modestly better. About 38% of Republican voters said they would back a candidate who promised to fight corporations that promote “woke” left ideology, versus the 52% who preferred “a candidate who says that the government should stay out of deciding what corporations should support.”
Christy Boyd, 55, in Ligonier, Pennsylvania, made it clear she was no fan of the culture of tolerance that she said pervaded her region around Pittsburgh. As the perfect distillation of “woke” ideology, she mentioned “time blindness,” a phrase she views as simply an excuse for perpetual tardiness.
But such aggravations do not drive her political desires.
“If you don’t like what Bud Light did, don’t buy it,” she added, referring to the brand’s hiring of a transgender influencer, which contributed to a sharp drop in sales. “If you don’t like what Disney is doing, don’t go. That’s not the government’s responsibility.”
Indeed, some Republican voters seemed to feel pandered to by candidates such as DeSantis and entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, whose book “Woke Inc.: Inside Corporate America’s Social Justice Scam,” launched his political career.
Lynda Croft, 82, said she was watching a rise in murders in her hometown Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and that has her scared. Overly liberal policies in culture and schools will course-correct on their own, she said.
“If anyone actually believes in woke ideology, they are not in tune with the rest of society,” she said, “and parents will step in to deal with that.”
In an interview, Ramaswamy said the evolving views of the electorate were important, and he had adapted to them. “Woke” corporate governance and school systems are a symptom of what he calls “a deeper void” in a society that needs a religious and nationalist renewal. The stickers that read “Stop Wokeism. Vote Vivek” are gone from his campaign stops, he said, replaced by hats that read “Truth.”
“At the time I came to be focused on this issue, no one knew what the word was,” he said. “Now that they have caught up, the puck has moved. It’s in my rearview mirror as well.”
Law and order and border security have become stand-ins for “fortitude,” he said, and that is clearly what Republican voters are craving.
DeSantis campaign officials emphasized that the governor in recent days had laid out policies on border security, the military and the economy. Foreign policy is coming, they say. But they also pointed to an interview on Fox News in which DeSantis did not back away from his social-policy focus.
Along with several other Republican-led states, Florida passed a string of laws restricting what GOP lawmakers considered evidence of “wokeness,” such as gender transition care for minors and diversity initiatives. DeSantis handily won reelection in November.
“I totally reject, being in Iowa, New Hampshire, that people don’t think those are important,” he said of his social-policy fights. “These families with children are thanking me for taking stands in Florida.”
For candidates trying to break Trump’s hold on a Republican electorate that sees the former president as the embodiment of strength, the problem may be broader than ditching the term “woke.”
As it turns out, social issues such as gender, race and sexuality are politically complicated and may be less dominant than Trump’s rivals thought. The fact that Trump has been indicted three times and found legally liable for sexual abuse has not hurt him. Only 37% of Republican voters nationally described Trump as more moral than DeSantis (45% sided with DeSantis on the personality trait), yet in a head-to-head matchup between the two candidates, national Republican voters backed Trump by 31 percentage points, 62% to 31%.
The Times/Siena poll did find real reluctance among Republican voters to accept transgender people. Only 30% said society should accept transgender people as the gender they identify with, compared with 58% who said society should not accept such identities.
But half of Republican voters still support the right of gay and lesbian people to marry, against the 41% who oppose same-sex marriage. Fifty-one percent of Republican voters said they would choose a candidate promising to protect individual freedom over one guarding “traditional values.” The “traditional values” candidate would be the choice of 40% of Republicans.
Steven Cheung, a spokesperson for the Trump campaign, responded simply: “Americans want to return to a prosperous nation, and there’s only one person who can do that — President Trump.”
Boyer, who played Robert E. Lee in Steven Spielberg’s “Lincoln,” bristled at having to make a choice: “It’s hardly an either-or: Why wouldn’t I want someone to fight for law and order and against this corrupt infiltration in our school systems?” he asked.
But given a choice, he said, “the primary job of government is the protection of our country and there’s a tangible failure of that at our border.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Polls & surveys; Ideology; Law enforcement; Politics; Society; Gender; Transgender persons; Border security; Political campaigns; Workplace diversity; School systems; Candidates; Voters

Business indexing term: Subject: Workplace diversity

Location: South Carolina; New York; United States--US; Florida; Iowa

People: Trump, Donald J; DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Primaries And Caucuses; Assaults; United States; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Hiring And Promotion; Germany; Newspapers; Walt Disney Company; Churchill, Winston Leonard Spencer; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Florida; World War Ii (1939 45); Conservatism (Us Politics); Winston Salem (Nc); Careers And Professions; Corporations; Politics And Government; Liberalism (Us Politics); Federal Criminal Case Against Trump (2020 Election Case); Holocaust And The Nazi Era; North Carolina; Presidential Election Of 2024; Capitalism (Theory And Philosophy); Mid Atlantic States (Us); United States Politics And Government; Hagerstown (Md); Discrimination; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Scott, Timothy Eugene; Pennsylvania; Iowa; Same Sex Marriage, Civil Unions And Domestic Partnerships; Sex Crimes; Law And Legislation; South Carolina; Transgender; Polls And Public Opinion; Corporate Social Responsibility; Elections, Governors; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Republican Party; Haley, Nikki R; Weisman, Jonathan; Trump, Donald J; Siena College; New Hampshire; Desantis, Ron; New York Times/Siena College Poll; Pittsburgh (Pa); Campaign Finance; New York Times; Maryland

Title: Are GOP Voters Tiring of the War on ‘Wokeness’?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-06T22:15:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846828698

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/are-gop-voters-tiring-war-on-wokeness/docview/2846828698/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Co mpany Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a Justice Came to Own A Luxury R.V.: [National Desk]

Author: Becker, Jo; Tate, Julie

Publication info: Becker, Jo; Tate, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-justice-came-own-luxury-r-v/docview/2846428172/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Justice Clarence Thomas met the recreational vehicle of his dreams in Phoenix, on a November Friday in 1999.
With some time to kill before an event that night, he headed to a dealership just west of the airport. There sat a used Prevost Le Mirage XL Marathon, eight years old and 40 feet long, with orange flames licking down the sides. In the words of one of his biographers, "he kicked the tires and climbed aboard," then quickly negotiated a handshake deal. A few weeks later, Justice Thomas drove his new motor coach off the lot and into his everyman, up-by-the-bootstraps self-mythology.
There he is behind the wheel during a rare 2007 interview with "60 Minutes," talking about how the steel-clad converted bus allows him to escape the "meanness that you see in Washington." He regularly slips into his speeches his love of driving it through the American heartland -- "the part we fly over." And in a documentary financed by conservative admirers, Justice Thomas, who was born into poverty in Georgia, waxes rhapsodic about the familiarity of spending time with the regular folks he meets along the way in R.V. parks and Walmart parking lots.
"I don't have any problem with going to Europe, but I prefer the United States, and I prefer seeing the regular parts of the United States," he told the filmmakers, adding: "There's something normal to me about it. I come from regular stock, and I prefer being around that."
But there is an untold, and far more complex, back story to Justice Thomas's R.V. -- one that not only undercuts the mythology but also leaves unanswered a host of questions about whether the justice received, and failed to disclose, a lavish gift from a wealthy friend.
His Prevost Marathon cost $ 267,230, according to title history records obtained by The New York Times. And Justice Thomas, who in the ensuing years would tell friends how he had scrimped and saved to afford the motor coach, did not buy it on his own. In fact, the purchase was underwritten, at least in part, by Anthony Welters, a close friend who made his fortune in the health care industry.
He provided Justice Thomas with financing that experts said a bank would have been unlikely to extend -- not only because Justice Thomas was already carrying a lot of debt, but because the Marathon brand's high level of customization makes its used motor coaches difficult to value.
In an email to The Times, Mr. Welters wrote: "Here is what I can share. Twenty-five years ago, I loaned a friend money, as I have other friends and family. We've all been on one side or the other of that equation. He used it to buy a recreational vehicle, which is a passion of his." Roughly nine years later, "the loan was satisfied," Mr. Welters added. He subsequently sent The Times a photograph of the original title bearing his signature and a handwritten "lien release" date of Nov. 22, 2008.
But despite repeated requests over nearly two weeks, Mr. Welters did not answer further questions essential to understanding his arrangement with Justice Thomas.
He would not say how much he had lent Justice Thomas, how much the justice had repaid and whether any of the debt had been forgiven or otherwise discharged. He declined to provide The Times with a copy of a loan agreement -- or even say if one existed. Nor would he share the basic terms of the loan, such as what, if any, interest rate had been charged or whether Justice Thomas had adhered to an agreed-upon repayment schedule. And when asked to elaborate on what he had meant when he said the loan had been "satisfied," he did not respond.
"'Satisfied' doesn't necessarily mean someone paid the loan back," said Michael Hamersley, a tax lawyer and expert who has testified before Congress. "'Satisfied' could also mean the lender formally forgave the debt, or otherwise just stopped pursuing repayment."
Justice Thomas, for his part, did not respond to detailed questions about the loan, sent to him through the Supreme Court's spokeswoman.
The two men's silence serves to obscure whether Justice Thomas had an obligation to report the arrangement under a federal ethics law that requires justices to disclose certain gifts, liabilities and other financial dealings that could pose conflicts of interest.
Vehicle loans are generally exempt from those reporting requirements, as long as they are secured by the vehicle and the loan amount doesn't exceed its purchase price. But private loans like the one between Mr. Welters and Justice Thomas can be deemed gifts or income to the borrower under the federal tax code if they don't hew to certain criteria: Essentially, experts said, the loan must have well-documented, commercially reasonable terms along the lines of what a bank would offer, and the borrower must adhere to those terms and pay back the principal and interest in full.
Richard W. Painter, a White House ethics lawyer during the George W. Bush administration, said that when it comes to questions of disclosure, the ethics treatment of gifts and income often parallels the tax treatment. But those intricacies aside, he said, "justices just should not be accepting private loans from wealthy individuals outside their family." If they do, he added, "you have to ask, why is a justice going to this private individual and not to a commercial lender, unless the justice is getting something he or she otherwise could not get."
The Times's unearthing of the loan arrangement is the latest in a series of revelations showing how wealthy benefactors have bestowed an array of benefits on Justice Thomas and his wife, Virginia Thomas: helping to pay for his great-nephew's tuition, steering business to Mrs. Thomas's consulting firm, buying and renovating the house where his mother lives and inviting the Thomases on trips both domestic and foreign that included travel aboard private jets and a yacht.
Justice Thomas has pointed to interpretations of the disclosure rules to defend his failure to report much of the largess he has received. He has said he was advised that the trips fell under an exemption for gifts involving "personal hospitality" from close friends, for instance, and a lawyer close to the Thomases contended in a statement that the justice did not need to disclose the tuition because it was a gift to his great-nephew, over whom he had legal custody, rather than to him.
The Thomases' known benefactors include wealthy men like the Dallas real estate developer Harlan Crow, the conservative judicial kingmaker Leonard Leo and several members of the Horatio Alger Association of Distinguished Americans, which honors people who succeed despite adversity. Among them: the longtime Miami Dolphins owner Wayne Huizenga, who flew the justice around on his jet.
Mr. Welters, while also a Horatio Alger member, stands apart. For one thing, the two men's friendship predates Justice Thomas's time on the federal bench. They met around 1980, when both were members of a small, informal club of Black congressional aides to Republican lawmakers -- Mr. Welters worked for Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York and Justice Thomas for Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri.
"It wasn't exactly fashionable to be a Black person working for a Republican, and it was comforting to meet others in the same boat," the justice wrote in his autobiography, "My Grandfather's Son."
They had much in common. Like Justice Thomas, Mr. Welters was raised in poverty, sharing a cramped tenement in Harlem with his parents and three brothers and, after his mother's death when he was 8, shining shoes under an elevated subway to help make ends meet.
As both men climbed the ladder as political appointees in the Reagan administration, their friendship grew. They stayed close after Justice Thomas joined the federal appeals court in Washington in 1990 and Mr. Welters left government to found AmeriChoice, a Medicaid services provider that he sold to UnitedHealthcare for $ 530 million in stock in 2002 and continued to lead until retiring in 2016. Mr. Welters and his wife, Beatrice, named Justice Thomas the godfather of one of their two boys, according to The Village Voice.
When Justice Thomas's 1991 Supreme Court nomination ran into trouble after a former subordinate, Anita Hill, accused him of sexual harassment, Mr. Welters stood by his friend, providing behind-the-scenes advice, according to a book on the hearings written by Mr. Danforth.
And in 1998, the year before the motor coach purchase, Justice Thomas returned the favor. That is when Mr. Welters and his wife, through their foundation, started the AnBryce scholarship program, which gives underprivileged students a full ride to New York University's law school, along with networking opportunities and career support. Justice Thomas lent his considerable imprimatur to the program, interviewing applicants in his Supreme Court chambers, mentoring scholars and later hiring one graduate as a clerk.
By that point, the justice had become fixated on owning an R.V., and not just any R.V., but the Rolls-Royce of motor coaches: a custom Prevost Marathon, or as he once put it, a "condo on wheels."
A Toy for the Rich
Justice Thomas was turned on to the luxury brand by Bernie Little, a fellow Horatio Alger member and the flamboyantly wealthy owner of the Miss Budweiser hydroplane racing boat. Mr. Little had owned 20 to 25 custom motor coaches over the years, Mr. Thomas told C-SPAN in 2001.
Back in those days, a basic Prevost Marathon sold for about a million dollars, and could fetch far more depending on the bells and whistles. It was a rich man's toy, and the company marketed it that way.
"You drive through a neighborhood in South Florida and you see these $ 10 million homes," Bob Phebus, Marathon's vice president, told The South Florida Business Journal in 2006. "You condense that down, put it on wheels and that's what we have. It's the same guy that will have a 100-foot yacht and a private aircraft. They're accustomed to the finer things in life."
At the time, the Thomases' primary source of income was the justice's salary, then $ 167,900. He had yet to sell his autobiography, and property and other records show that the couple had significant debt: They had purchased their house in 1992 for $ 552,000 with 5 percent down, then refinanced it two years later, taking out a 15-year mortgage of $ 496,000. Plus, they had at least one line of credit of between $ 15,000 and $ 50,000.
So, in Justice Thomas's telling, he began searching for a used Prevost at Mr. Little's suggestion, one with enough miles on it to depreciate the value. "The depreciation curve -- it's very steep," he made a point of saying in the 2001 C-SPAN interview.
All these years later, he still hasn't told some of his closest friends how he was really able to swing the purchase.
"He told me he saved up all his money to buy it," said Armstrong Williams, a longtime friend who worked closely with Justice Thomas in the Reagan administration.
The title history documents reviewed by The Times show that when the motor coach was sold for $ 267,230 to the Thomases in 1999, it had only 93,618 miles on it, relatively few for a vehicle that experts say can easily log a million miles in its lifetime. It came equipped with plush leather seating, a kitchen, a bathroom and a bedroom in the back. In addition to its orange flame motif, it had a large Pegasus painted on the back, according to Jason Mang, the step-grandson of the previous owner, Bonnie Owenby.
"It was superluxury, really bougie," he recalled.
On Nov. 19, 1999, after spotting the motor coach on the lot of Desert West Coach in Phoenix and putting a hold on it, Justice Thomas attended a dinner at the conservative Goldwater Institute. In a speech that night, he said he had never yearned to be a federal judge. "Pure and simple, I wanted to be rich," he said.
Wayne Mullis, the owner of the now-defunct Desert West, said in an interview that Justice Thomas never discussed obtaining traditional financing with him, and that "as far as I know, he paid for it."
Indeed, Justice Thomas would have been hard-pressed to get a loan from a traditional lender. Banks, and even finance companies that specialize in R.V. loans, are particularly reluctant to lend money on used Prevost Marathons because the customized features are hard to value, according to three leading industry executives interviewed by The Times.
"As a rule, the majority of buyers are cash buyers -- they don't finance the Prevost, generally," said Chad Stevens, owner of an Arizona-based dealership specializing in high-end motor coaches, whose clients include celebrities and politicians. "In 1999, you would need a very strong down payment and a strong financial portfolio to finance one. It is a luxury item."
While the terms of Mr. Welters's loan to Justice Thomas are unclear, rules governing loans of more than $ 10,000 between friends and family are not.
Loans can be reclassified as gifts or income to the borrower, either of which would have to be reported by the justice under court disclosure rules, if any portion of the debt is forgiven or discharged as uncollectable. But even if a lender does not take those steps, a loan can still be considered a reportable gift or income if it doesn't meet certain standards.
Loan terms should be spelled out in a written agreement, with a clearly defined, regular repayment schedule, tax experts said. Lenders must charge at least the applicable federal interest rate, which was a little over 6 percent in December 1999, when the deal to buy the motor coach closed. And if a borrower is in arrears, lenders must make a good-faith effort to collect, even to the point of going to court.
"Absent that, it's more of a gift," said Rich Lahijani, tax director of Edelman Financial Engines, an independent wealth planning and investment advisory firm.
The title history records held by the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles do not contain detailed information about the loan itself. What they show is that when the Thomases drove their motor coach back home to Virginia, they registered it in Prince William County, which does not charge personal property tax on R.V.s stored there, unlike Fairfax County, where they live.
And as of late last month, when The Times reviewed the records, they still listed Mr. Welters as the lien holder, notwithstanding the signed release he said he gave Justice Thomas in 2008 so he could obtain a new, clear title.
Mr. Welters said he could not explain why he was still listed as the holder of the lien. After he gave Justice Thomas the paperwork, he said, "I don't know what process the borrower should have followed." (To clear the title, the paperwork should have been brought to the D.M.V., where the lien release would have been recorded and a replacement title issued.) As for Justice Thomas, that was among the matters he declined to discuss with The Times.
'A Warm, Safe Place'
As details about Justice and Mrs. Thomas's subsidized trips to vacation homes and resorts have become public in recent months, his professed preference for traveling by motor coach has become something of a "yeah, right" punchline.
But by all accounts, he loves the anonymity, the freedom and the community it affords. He has hosted at least one event at the Supreme Court for a Marathon owners' club.
When he hits the road, he often goes unrecognized, which at times has allowed him to travel without a U.S. Marshals' security detail. Chris Weaver, who worked at Desert West Coach, said the justice had frequently gotten his motor coach serviced there before it closed. "Nine out of 10 times, he was just wearing sweats and a T-shirt," he said.
Traveling largely through red-state America has also meant that when he is recognized, more often than not it is by fans. Juan Williams, a Fox News commentator who has known Justice Thomas since the Reagan administration, said the motor coach was both the fulfillment of a boyish fantasy and a metaphorical "womb."
"He talked about the R.V. a lot," he said. "It was a warm, safe place where he didn't have to be attacked by liberals and Blacks on the left. What he liked about it was not being pilloried."
In a 2019 Q. and A. at the court, Justice Thomas said he had made it to nearly two dozen states, and declared himself the proud owner of a KOA campground discount card.
But the Thomases' road trips have hardly been limited to sleeping at campsites and Walmart parking lots.
In a 2009 call-in to a morning radio talk show, for instance, Mrs. Thomas said they were driving their motor coach through the Adirondacks, on their way to "meet some families from Texas." ProPublica has reported that the Thomases have spent part of nearly every summer for the past two decades in the Adirondacks as a guest of Mr. Crow, who owns a lakeside resort there with more than 25 fireplaces, three boathouses and a painting of the justice, his host and other guests smoking cigars.
When the Thomases aren't houseguests, they have stayed at upscale Marathon-endorsed destinations like the Mountain Falls Luxury Motorcoach Resort in Lake Toxaway, N.C.
There, the justice met Larry Fields, who owns a motor-coach-cleaning business. Mr. Fields said that for several days he had had no idea who Justice Thomas was, telling him he would have to wait in line to have his Prevost washed, which he patiently did.
"He was a great guy," Mr. Fields recalled. "I think we talked about how great Reagan was. He was low-key. It was just him and his wife and a dog."
Upkeep on a motor coach like the justice's is an expensive constant, and other friends have chipped in to help. While he did not disclose Mr. Welters's assistance in buying the motor coach, he did report that some former clerks got together and bought him deep-cycle batteries for $ 1,200 the year after he acquired it. He also reported that in 2002, Greg Werner, who ran a large, family-owned, Nebraska-based trucking company, gave him tires worth $ 1,200.
And over time, Justice Thomas made the motor coach his own. In a photo The Times obtained that appears to date back to the early 2000s, picturing his great-nephew as a child, the motor coach no longer sported the sizzling orange flames and Pegasus logo. Instead, it was painted in an elegant black-and-gold geometric pattern.
But if the custom coach changed, the justice's friendship with Mr. Welters endured.
While Mr. Welters was an executive at UnitedHealthcare, Justice Thomas twice recused himself from cases involving the company, in 2003 and 2005. As is the general custom of the court, he did not explain why.
In 2010, Justice Thomas traveled to the capital of Trinidad and Tobago, Port of Spain, at the invitation of the Welterses. By then, the couple had become major Democratic fund-raisers and President Obama had named Ms. Welters ambassador to the island nation. Local newspapers captured the justice and Mr. Welters talking to students at a school.
In disclosures, Justice Thomas wrote that the "U.S. Embassy Port of Spain" had paid for his flight. But flight records obtained through the plane-tracking services of MyRadar show that the Welterses' private Gulfstream G-6 flew from Washington Dulles International Airport and back on the days that Justice Thomas arrived on and departed the Caribbean island.
And Matthew Cassetta, a retired embassy official who helped arrange the visit, said Ms. Welters customarily "offered the plane to people who came down," always at her own expense to save the taxpayers money.
(Ms. Welters declined to comment on the flights or the loan, except to say, "I just want to tell you that friendships come and go, and that's what I want to say.")
The same year, in a speech accepting an award from the Horatio Alger Association, Justice Thomas singled out Mr. Welters as one of his "friends for the whole journey."
"And for Tony, a special thank you, who understood relationships and who was always there as a friend in the worst times of my life," he said. "It is a friendship I will treasure forever."
Reporting was contributed by Steve Eder, Riley Mellen, Robin Stein and Abbie VanSickle.
Reporting was contributed by Steve Eder, Riley Mellen, Robin Stein and Abbie VanSickle.
Photograph ON THE ROAD: Justice Clarence Thomas in his Prevost Le Mirage XL Marathon during a 2007 interview with Steve Kroft of "60 Minutes." The vehicle is a high-end luxury brand marketed for the ultrarich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS NEWS); GENEROUS FRIENDS: Justice Thomas with Mr. Welters in 2010 in Trinidad and Tobago, left. Flight records show that the Welterses' private plane flew to and from Dulles Airport on the days Justice Thomas traveled. Of the R.V., Mr. Welters would not say how much he had lent Justice Thomas or how much had been repaid. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY U.S. EMBASSY TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO; GREG EASTMAN) (A14-A15); PROOF OF OWNERSHIP: A title for the motor coach, provided by Anthony Welters, who underwrote the $ 267,230 purchase. (Addresses and the vehicle identification number have been redacted.) Justice Thomas has said he scrimped and saved to buy the vehicle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTHONY WELTERS); PLAYGROUNDS OF THE AFFLUENT: Justice Thomas has said the recreational vehicle allows him to blend into "the regular parts of the United States," where he can mingle with everyday Americans. But he has also frequented places like the Mountain Falls luxury motor coach resort in North Carolina, left, and the Adirondacks resort of the Dallas developer Harlan Crow, below. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCIE BATTAGLIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14, A15.

Subject: Political appointments; Recreational vehicles; Disclosure; Ethics; Friendship; Loans

Business indexing term: Subject: Disclosure Loans

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Thomas, Clarence

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/05/us/clarence-thomas-rv-anthony-welters.html

Title: How a Justice Came to Own A Luxury R.V.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2846428172

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-justice-came-own-luxury-r-v/docview/2846428172/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Clarence Thomas’ $267,230 RV and the Friend Who Financed It

Author: Becker, Jo; Tate, Julie

Publication info: Becker, Jo; Tate, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clarence-thomas-267-230-rv-friend-who-financed/docview/2846290089/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Justice Clarence Thomas met the recreational vehicle of his dreams in Phoenix, on a November Friday in 1999.
With some time to kill before an event that night, he headed to a dealership just west of the airport. There sat a used Prevost Le Mirage XL Marathon, 8 years old and 40 feet long, with orange flames licking down the sides. In the words of one of his biographers, “he kicked the tires and climbed aboard,” then quickly negotiated a handshake deal. A few weeks later, Thomas drove his new motor coach off the lot and into his everyman, up-by-the-bootstraps self-mythology.
In a documentary financed by conservative admirers, Thomas, who was born into poverty in Georgia, waxes rhapsodic about the familiarity of spending time with the regular folks he meets along the way in RV parks and Walmart parking lots.
“I don’t have any problem with going to Europe, but I prefer the United States, and I prefer seeing the regular parts of the United States,” he told the filmmakers, adding: “There’s something normal to me about it. I come from regular stock, and I prefer being around that.”
But there is an untold, and far more complex, back story to Thomas’ RV — one that leaves unanswered a host of questions about whether the justice received, and failed to disclose, a lavish gift from a wealthy friend.
His Prevost Marathon cost $267,230, according to title history records obtained by The New York Times. And Thomas, who in the ensuing years would tell friends how he had scrimped and saved to afford the motor coach, did not buy it on his own. In fact, the purchase was underwritten, at least in part, by Anthony Welters, a close friend who made his fortune in the health care industry.
He provided Thomas with financing that experts said a bank would have been unlikely to extend — not only because Thomas was already carrying a lot of debt, but because the Marathon brand’s high level of customization makes its used motor coaches difficult to value.
In an email to the Times, Welters wrote: “Here is what I can share. Twenty-five years ago, I loaned a friend money, as I have other friends and family. We’ve all been on one side or the other of that equation. He used it to buy a recreational vehicle, which is a passion of his.” Roughly nine years later, “the loan was satisfied,” Welters added. He subsequently sent the Times a photograph of the original title bearing his signature and a handwritten “lien release” date of Nov. 22, 2008.
But despite repeated requests over nearly two weeks, Welters did not answer further questions essential to understanding his arrangement with Thomas.
He would not say how much he had lent Thomas, how much the justice had repaid and whether any of the debt had been forgiven or otherwise discharged. He declined to provide the Times with a copy of a loan agreement — or even say if one existed. Nor would he share the basic terms of the loan, such as what, if any, interest rate had been charged or whether Thomas had adhered to an agreed-upon repayment schedule. And when asked to elaborate on what he had meant when he said the loan had been “satisfied,” he did not respond.
“‘Satisfied’ doesn’t necessarily mean someone paid the loan back,” said Michael Hamersley, a tax lawyer and expert who has testified before Congress. “‘Satisfied’ could also mean the lender formally forgave the debt, or otherwise just stopped pursuing repayment.”
Thomas, for his part, did not respond to detailed questions about the loan, sent to him through the Supreme Court’s spokesperson.
The two men’s silence serves to obscure whether Thomas had an obligation to report the arrangement under a federal ethics law that requires justices to disclose certain gifts, liabilities and other financial dealings that could pose conflicts of interest.
Richard W. Painter, a White House ethics lawyer during the George W. Bush administration, said that “justices just should not be accepting private loans from wealthy individuals outside their family.” If they do, he added, “you have to ask, why is a justice going to this private individual and not to a commercial lender, unless the justice is getting something he or she otherwise could not get.”
The Times’ unearthing of the loan arrangement is the latest in a series of revelations showing how wealthy benefactors have bestowed an array of benefits on Thomas and his wife, Virginia: helping to pay for his great-nephew’s tuition; steering business to Virginia Thomas’ consulting firm; buying and renovating the house where his mother lives; and inviting the Thomases on trips both domestic and foreign that included travel aboard private jets and a yacht.
Thomas has pointed to interpretations of the disclosure rules to defend his failure to report much of the largesse he has received. He has said he was advised that the trips fell under an exemption for gifts involving “personal hospitality” from close friends, for instance, and a lawyer close to the Thomases contended in a statement that the justice did not need to disclose the tuition because it was a gift to his great-nephew, over whom he had legal custody, rather than to him.
Thomas was turned on to the RV luxury brand by Bernie Little, the flamboyantly wealthy owner of the Miss Budweiser hydroplane racing boat. Little had owned 20 to 25 custom motor coaches over the years, Thomas told C-SPAN in 2001.
Back in those days, a basic Prevost Marathon sold for about $1 million, and could fetch far more depending on the bells and whistles.
At the time, the Thomases’ primary source of income was the justice’s salary, then $167,900. He had yet to sell his autobiography, and property and other records show that the couple had significant debt: They had purchased their house in 1992 for $552,000 with 5% down, then refinanced it two years later, taking out a 15-year mortgage of $496,000. Plus, they had at least one line of credit of $15,000 to $50,000.
So, in Thomas’ telling, he began searching for a used Prevost at Little’s suggestion, one with enough miles on it to depreciate the value. “The depreciation curve — it’s very steep,” he made a point of saying in the 2001 C-SPAN interview.
The title history documents reviewed by the Times show that when the motor coach was sold for $267,230 to the Thomases in 1999, it had 93,618 miles on it. It came equipped with plush leather seating, a kitchen, a bathroom and a bedroom. In addition to its orange flame motif, it had a large Pegasus painted on the back, according to Jason Mang, the step-grandson of the previous owner, Bonnie Owenby.
“It was superluxury, really bougie,” he recalled.
On Nov. 19, 1999, after spotting the motor coach on the lot of Desert West Coach in Phoenix and putting a hold on it, Thomas attended a dinner at the conservative Goldwater Institute. In a speech that night, he said he had never yearned to be a federal judge. “Pure and simple, I wanted to be rich,” he said.
Wayne Mullis, the owner of the now-defunct Desert West, said in an interview that Thomas never discussed obtaining traditional financing with him, and that “as far as I know, he paid for it.”
While the terms of Welters’ loan to Thomas are unclear, rules governing loans of more than $10,000 between friends and family are not.
Loans can be reclassified as gifts or income to the borrower, either of which would have to be reported by the justice under court disclosure rules, if any portion of the debt is forgiven or discharged as uncollectable. But even if a lender does not take those steps, a loan can still be considered a reportable gift or income if it doesn’t meet certain standards.
Loan terms should be spelled out in a written agreement, with a clearly defined, regular repayment schedule, tax experts said. Lenders must charge at least the applicable federal interest rate, which was a little over 6% in December 1999, when the deal to buy the motor coach closed. And if a borrower is in arrears, lenders must make a good-faith effort to collect, even to the point of going to court.
“Absent that, it’s more of a gift,” said Rich Lahijani, tax director of Edelman Financial Engines, an independent wealth planning and investment advisory firm.
The title history records held by the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles do not contain detailed information about the loan itself. What they show is that when the Thomases drove their motor coach back home to Virginia, they registered it in Prince William County, which does not charge personal property tax on RVs stored there, unlike Fairfax County, where they live.
And as of late last month, when the Times reviewed the records, they still listed Welters as the lien holder, notwithstanding the signed release he said he gave Thomas in 2008 so he could obtain a new, clear title.
Welters said he could not explain why he was still listed as the holder of the lien. After he gave Thomas the paperwork, he said, “I don’t know what process the borrower should have followed.” (To clear the title, the paperwork should have been brought to the DMV, where the lien release would have been recorded and a replacement title issued.) As for Thomas, that was among the matters he declined to discuss with the Times.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Recreational vehicles; Gifts; Disclosure; Interest rates; Loan agreements

Business indexing term: Subject: Gifts Disclosure Interest rates Loan agreements

Location: New York; United States--US; Virginia

People: Thomas, Clarence

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: C-SPAN; NAICS: 516210

Identifier / keyword: United States; Conservatism (Us Politics); Bush, George W; Credit And Debt; C Span; Decisions And Verdicts; News And News Media; Newspapers; Goldwater Institute; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Walmart Stores Inc; Home Equity Loans; Recreational Vehicles; Tuition; Thomas, Virginia Lamp; Banking And Financial Institutions; Income; Georgia; Europe; Gifts To Public Officials; Fairfax County (Va); Phoenix (Ariz); Health Insurance And Managed Care; Property Taxes; United States Politics And Government; Thomas, Clarence; Speeches And Statements; Virginia; Department Of Motor Vehicles; Supreme Court (Us); Campaign Finance; New York Times; Luxury Goods And Services; Conflicts Of Interest; Becker, Jo

Title: Clarence Thomas’ $267,230 RV and the Friend Who Financed It

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-05T16:58:59Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846290089

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clarence-thomas-267-230-rv-friend-who-financed/docview/2846290089/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pence Knows What He's Getting Himself Into: [Op-Ed]

Author: Miller, Katherine

Publication info: Miller, Katherine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pence-knows-what-hes-getting-himself-into/docview/2846032955/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What if he's president again? Who will be around for that, in a second Trump administration, when he asks why the military can't shoot protesters in the legs or when he wants to withdraw all military dependents from South Korea and throw Asia into an economic crisis?
Nobody, outside of his supporters, wants to talk about the eventuality -- not probable but definitely not impossible -- that Donald Trump will be re-elected. His former cabinet secretaries don't. The people -- the foreign ministers and former national security officials -- at the Aspen Security Forum don't.
And the closer you get to presidential campaign events, elections can become a kind of dreamscape, a contained universe where meta-attacks are signaled yet nothing seems that weird about Mr. Trump's dominance. After Friday night's Lincoln Dinner in Des Moines -- a fund-raiser for the Iowa Republican Party, held in the city's convention center -- the candidates hosted after-parties off a long hallway, producing an animatronic-like gallery effect.
In one room, for about an hour, Mr. Trump stood grinning and shaking hands and posing for photos, with an ever-replenishing line of dozens waiting to get in and dozens wandering out, ice cream in hand and wearing "Trump Country" stickers. In the next room, Senator Tim Scott, a putting green and cornhole game. In the next, Mayor Francis Suarez of Miami and a live band, with a foursome playing dominoes, red wine on the table. Through another door, at a more subdued valence, you could see Mike Pence talking to little groups of people, mostly older couples, a father and son, a nod, a hand on a shoulder, a photo. Nikki Haley signed books and posters in the hall, and 20-something aides holding red "DeSantis 2024" signs roamed, directing people to his room, where Republicans threw baseballs at pyramids of Bud Light cans. Step, repeat.
This looked fun and vaguely normal -- like something from the past. In reality, Mr. Pence is disappearing, politically, before our eyes. Mr. Scott says he can hold only the rioters who were violent, not Mr. Trump, responsible for the events of Jan. 6. The physical distance separating all three of them on Friday night was roughly the distance between that mob and Mr. Pence or the Senate chamber that day.
That wasn't that long ago. You can read all about it, across 45 pages in the federal indictment against Mr. Trump. We know what happens to people around Mr. Trump. To preserve influence, those hired by him either exist on a total MAGA wavelength or else have to dodge or lie sometimes to beat back chaos. And in the indictment the frayed and unnerving interpersonal dynamics abound: Consider the case of Co-Conspirator 4, whose description matches Jeffrey Clark and who prosecutors say kept pressing to send a letter claiming the Justice Department had concerns about -- or had even found -- "significant irregularities" in the 2020 election.
It's hard not to flash back and then forward, to that surreal period when politicians joined the administration and to think about the even more uncertain future. Recall the photo of Mitt Romney and Mr. Trump eating dinner after the 2016 election; despite having opposed Mr. Trump's nomination, there was Mr. Romney, offering himself as secretary of state.
Mr. Romney's expression captured a strong public sentiment about people who joined the Trump administration: At best, it was seen as a slightly embarrassing exposure of the pursuit of power and personal ambition.
The last year of the Trump administration concentrated how bad and complex this situation was. The government transformed into a body that had to handle crisis and one in which officials' intentions could not be always known by the public and in which the act of joining government service came with deep personal repercussions. The pandemic required, for instance, significant collaboration across departments and the private sector to produce a vaccine. Things had to stop or start with government employees at moments of intense crisis.
And in books, committee depositions and now in this latest indictment, the months after the 2020 election sound especially abysmal -- a White House ghost town deserted by people tired of dealing with Mr. Trump and his break with reality about the election's outcome. They left behind a few panicked people who remained grounded in reality, like the White House counsel Pat Cipollone and Mr. Pence, and then there were Rudy Giuliani, Sidney Powell and the rest. Again and again, people describe desperate circumstances, arguments about doing things like seizing the voting machines and trying to persuade Mr. Trump to call off the riot. According to prosecutors, at 7:01 p.m. on Jan. 6, Mr. Cipollone called Mr. Trump and asked him to withdraw his objections to certification; Mr. Trump refused. Would there be more Clarks or more Cipollones in a future Trump administration?
The idea for many around Mr. Trump is to use a second administration as a path to clearing out parts of the government and reorganizing it around a stronger executive, with true believers underneath him. Jonathan Swan has written extensively about those plans, most recently in an article about the expansive efforts Trump allies want to undertake, like placing the Federal Trade Commission under presidential control and using Schedule F to fire federal employees. The idea for a second term, in Mr. Trump's telling, is also retribution.
This only increases the anxiety around, basically, who might be involved in such an administration and what the broader American public would tolerate from them. In his book, "Why We Did It," Tim Miller debates this question with Alyssa Farah Griffin, a former White House communications official. "Governing is happening under him whether we want it to be or not," she argues, citing the prospect of whatever goon would serve instead of her, which Mr. Miller concedes is true. But, he counters, "this logic is circular. It justifies anything! Alyssa was a flack; she wasn't securing loose nukes." She ticks off things people had talked Mr. Trump out of: invoking the Insurrection Act during the George Floyd protests and firing Defense Secretary Mark Esper.
In these circumstances, the lines separating responsible influence working to contain the worst impulses in private and passive bystander and amoral chump are difficult to discern.
Mr. Pence's experience highlights the dangers for the individual and the public. In his book Mr. Esper describes the way Mr. Pence was a sane, normal presence in meetings. But, Mr. Esper writes, he could never discern how much their boss even considered the vice president's views: "He was part cheerleader and part sounding board, though I could never tell how much influence he really had with Trump. He often didn't say much in meetings that the president attended, and he rarely disagreed with Trump in front of us."
Mr. Trump's vice president ended up trapped in the Capitol with a mob calling for his death by hanging. Now people talk about the other Republican presidential candidates as though they might be his running mate this time around, as though all this didn't just happen. And now, as Mr. Pence runs for president himself, the reward for coming through in a central moment of American history is a kind of surround-sound aversion.
At first, at that dinner in Iowa last week, Mr. Pence talked brightly, in the expectation of applause, which came, sort of, at muted levels, muted even for the kinds of things -- like his abortion politics -- that resulted in applause for others.
This was tepid, indifferent clapping, a kind of subtle hell worse than booing, in which people who knew you have forgotten you. Mr. Pence kept talking, the delivery staying even and polished, the brightness fading, talking about restoring civility. "So I thank you for hearing me out tonight," he said, almost somber.
On Tuesday evening, Mr. Pence was one of the few Republican candidates to put the situation plainly: "Anyone who puts himself over the Constitution should never be president of the United States." He has not yet qualified for the debates and is polling badly.
As Mr. Trump told him when he balked at the idea of returning votes to the states, according to the indictment, "You're too honest."
Katherine Miller is a staff writer and editor in Opinion.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Federal employees; Political campaigns; Rebellions; Riots; Presidential elections; Books

Location: United States--US; Iowa

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/03/opinion/mike-pence-january-6-trump-2024.html

Title: Pence Knows What He's Getting Himself Into:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 5, 2023

column: Katherine Miller

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2846032955

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pence-knows-what-hes-getting-himself-into/docview/2846032955/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 5, 2023

Last updated: 2024-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fall in Sales of Bud Light Puts Dent in Beer Maker: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fall-sales-bud-light-puts-dent-beer-maker/docview/2845380283/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Anheuser-Busch InBev is struggling in the United States after a conservative-led boycott of Bud Light, leaving other brands in the company's portfolio to pick up the slack.
Anheuser-Busch InBev, the global beer-making giant, on Thursday reported a sharp drop in sales and profit in the United States, as it counted the cost of a conservative-led boycott of Bud Light after the company's collaboration with a transgender influencer.
Anheuser-Busch said its revenue in the United States last quarter fell more than 10 percent from year earlier, "primarily due to the volume decline of Bud Light." Operating profit at the U.S. unit dropped nearly 30 percent.
Bud Light has faced a backlash from conservative commentators and celebrities after Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender influencer, posted a promotion for the beer on Instagram in April. Anheuser-Busch later put some marketing executives on leave and announced layoffs in its corporate offices.
"People want to enjoy their beer without the debate," Michel Doukeris, the chief executive of Anheuser-Busch, told analysts on Thursday. He said the company would focus on promoting its beers through its partnerships with sports leagues and nonprofits that support military families and farmers.
Modelo Especial dethroned Bud Light as the nation's top-selling beer in June. Constellation Brands, which sells Modelo in the United States, reported 7.5 percent growth in beer volumes in its most recent quarter, which ended on May 31, compared with a year earlier. Overall volume at Anheuser-Busch, which also sells Beck's, Michelob, Stella Artois and many other brands, fell more than 1 percent in the three months through June.
Bud Light has been losing market share because of the backlash. Anheuser-Busch noted, however, that the share of sales of its brands in the United States had stabilized by the end of the quarter.
Sales of the conglomerate's other beers, in other countries, helped bolster its results, with total revenue last quarter up just over 7 percent and a measure of profit gaining 5 percent, beating analysts' expectations. The company, which is based in Belgium, reiterated its forecast for profit growth of up to 8 percent this year, in part because it has been raising prices. Its share price rose more than 1 percent.
Sticking with its profit forecast "should provide relief to investors who have been waiting on the sidelines to see if the Bud Light situation would drive a reset of expectations," analysts at Morgan Stanley wrote in a research report. They warned that the "full hit" of Bud Light's troubles would appear in the company's next quarterly report.
Retail sales of Bud Light fell as much as 42 percent in some U.S. metro areas in the four weeks that ended on July 22, according to Nielsen IQ data analyzed by the consulting firm Bump Williams. Customers at bars and restaurants have also ordered Bud Light less frequently, sending sales down 34 percent last quarter, according to data from Union, an ordering system used at more than 1,000 bars and restaurants in 34 states.
Bud Light has lost its top spot at these establishments, falling to fourth place, behind Miller Lite, Michelob Ultra and Coors Light, according to Union.
Molson Coors, which owns Coors Light and Miller Lite, on Tuesday reported record quarterly sales and a big jump in profit. The company's chief executive, Gavin Hattersley, told analysts that in the second quarter last year, Bud Light sold more than Coors Light and Miller Lite combined. In the second quarter this year, he said, Coors and Miller racked up 50 percent more in sales than Bud Light.
Photograph Bud Light has been losing market share, a worry for Anheuser-Busch InBev. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RACHEL WISNIEWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Corporate profits; Market shares; Transgender persons; Breweries; Financial performance

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits Market shares Breweries Financial performance

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110; Name: Anheuser-Busch InBev; NAICS: 312120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/03/business/bud-light-sales-decline.html

Title: Fall in Sales of Bud Light Puts Dent in Beer Maker:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2845380283

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fall-sales-bud-light-puts-dent-beer-maker/docview/2845380283/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Modelo Dethroned Bud Light: [Correction]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-modelo-dethroned-bud-light/docview/2842746911/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A decade before Bud Light faced a conservative-led boycott over a transgender influencer, Modelo Especial was on track to take the No. 1 spot.
More beers in America are being paired with lime than ever before.
The story of how Modelo Especial, a Mexican lager, surpassed Bud Light as the top-selling beer in America predates the conservative backlash that Bud Light faced in April over a collaboration with a transgender influencer. The country's steadily growing Hispanic population is only part of the story, too.
Rather, the factors that, for the better part of a decade, put Modelo on its triumphant track include an increasing preference among American consumers for imported, more expensive beer; a decade-old antitrust deal; and effective marketing campaigns aimed at attracting young, non-Hispanic consumers to the Mexican beer.
"Most people in the beer industry have assumed Modelo was going to overtake Bud Light at some point," said Bart Watson, chief economist for the Brewers Association, a trade group representing over 6,000 American breweries. "It was a question of when, not if."
The switch occurred at the start of June, after Bud Light had held the No. 1 spot for about 20 years. In the four-week period that ended July 8, Modelo made up 8.7 percent of retail beer sales in the United States, compared with Bud Light's 6.8 percent, according to Nielsen IQ data analyzed by the consulting firm Bump Williams.
Bud Light's ouster followed a conservative-led boycott that was set off when Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender influencer, posted a video on Instagram on April 1 promoting a Bud Light contest. The company has since dismissed two marketing executives and has reported plunging sales.
In an earnings call last month, Bill Newlands, the chief executive of Constellation Brands, which owns the rights to Modelo in the United States, told investors that the beer's rise to the top had happened "sooner than we anticipated." Constellation's beer business reported an 11 percent sales increase and a 7.5 percent increase in shipments for the quarter that ended May 31.
Constellation, which also owns the U.S. rights to the Mexican beers Corona and Pacifico, is perhaps the biggest winner in the American beer market, as consumer tastes in alcohol have shifted over the past decade.
Americans are drinking less beer than they used to, and the beer that they've grown to prefer is more expensive than Bud Light, Mr. Watson noted. Craft beers and imports, like Modelo, as well as hard seltzers and canned cocktails, have benefited from that shift at the expense of domestic brands, he added.
Younger drinkers tend to want something new or different, and usually more expensive, than the previous generation, said Nadine Sarwat, an alcoholic-beverage analyst at Bernstein Autonomous, a market research company. That trend has been going on for generations: When lighter beers like Bud Light began having their moment in the 1980s and 1990s, they, too, were more expensive than competitors.
"You don't like to drink what your parents drink," Ms. Sarwat said.
A demographic shift has also contributed to Modelo's success. Hispanic people made up 19 percent of the U.S. population in 2021, up from 13 percent in 2000, according to the Census Bureau.
Along with that, Mexican products have gained "cultural appeal" among non-Hispanic consumers, Ms. Sarwat said. And it's not just beer: The volume of tequila and mezcal -- Mexican liquors -- sold in the United States increased 273 percent from 2003 to 2022, according to the Distilled Spirits Council.
Mexico exports more beer to the United States than any other country by far. In 2022, it shipped in seven times the volume of the second-highest source of U.S. beer imports, the Netherlands.
From 2013 to 2022, the amount of Mexican beer imports doubled, according to data from the Beer Institute. Mexico carried the overall growth in U.S. beer imports during that time: Imports from everywhere else dropped more than 25 percent.
The biggest growth in Mexican beer sales over the past year has been in states closer to the Canadian border, which tend to have lower Hispanic populations, while growth in states closer to Mexico has lagged, according to one Nielsen IQ analysis of on-premise sales.
Modelo, however, has enjoyed greater success than other Mexican beers that sell in the United States, including Tecate and Dos Equis.
"That is proof that just having a Mexican beer brand isn't enough," Ms. Sarwat said.
Anheuser-Busch InBev, the maker of Bud Light, began to see the writing on the wall a decade ago.
In 2012, the company sought to acquire Grupo Modelo, which brews Modelo and Corona. The Department of Justice under President Barack Obama sued to block that deal in early 2013, arguing that keeping Modelo beers independent from Anheuser-Busch and MillerCoors, the two major American beer companies, was critical to maintaining a fair market.
Bill Baer, who led the agency's antitrust division at the time, said Anheuser-Busch had sought the deal because it had been worried about Modelo's rise. The parties reached a settlement in 2013, allowing the acquisition to go through as long as another company, which turned out to be Constellation, controlled Grupo Modelo's U.S. operations.
"The result in the market was Constellation had every incentive as an independent owner to really promote the hell out of Corona and the other Modelo brands," said Mr. Baer, now a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution. "And that's exactly what has happened."
Asked for comment, an Anheuser-Busch spokesperson pointed to the fact that Bud Light sold more beer by volume in the United States than Modelo, which owes its sales lead in part to its higher price point.
In the decade since Constellation has owned the U.S. rights to Modelo, it has worked meticulously to refine the beer's identity.
Promoting Modelo has been a balancing act of maintaining its authenticity to its Hispanic base while inviting new consumers, said Jim Sabia, head of Constellation's beer division. In 2016, Modelo rolled out its first English-language advertising push, with a "fighting spirit" marketing campaign.
Since then, Constellation has sought to position Modelo as a game-day beer. In 2017, it became the sponsor of the Ultimate Fighting Championship, a deal that it has renewed and that is in the "low eight figures" annually, according to Sports Business Journal. That identity is distinct from Modelo's sister brand, Corona, which Constellation has promoted as a beer to sip on the beach with friends.
"It takes a lot of time to truly find the essence of these brands," Mr. Sabia said, "and when we finally get it, we stick with it."
Photograph Modelo, a Mexican lager, had an 11 percent increase in sales last quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELSEY MCCLELLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); "It was a question of when, not if," Modelo would surpass Bud Light in the United States, said Bart Watson, chief economist for the Brewers Association. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Antitrust; Marketing; Hispanic people; Consumers; Beer; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Marketing Consumers Breweries

Location: Mexico; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110; Name: Brewers Association; NAICS: 813910; Name: Grupo Modelo SA de CV; NAICS: 312120

Title: How Modelo Dethroned Bud Light:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 28, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842746911

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-modelo-dethroned-bud-light/docview/2842746911/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Is Gen Z Down to Clown?: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown/docview/2840700146/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Cirque du Soleil is hoping that it can expand its audience, perhaps with perfume that smells like a trapeze artist or a couch that embodies the spirit of clowning.
The circus is a thrill, a locus of nostalgia for people who remember summers with family members under colorful tents, a beloved amalgam of the athletic and the absurd, the rare place where jugglers and acrobats and fire breathers can fly free, fodder for countless movies and a Dr. Seuss book -- and, not to be a downer, a business.
The circus has to make money to keep its clowns clowning.
Coming out of the pandemic, Cirque du Soleil was in trouble. The company had staked nearly all its revenue in live shows, with their dizzying displays of balletic grace and gravity-defying gymnastics. After filing for bankruptcy protection in 2020, Cirque decided it had to be more than just a circus. It wanted to be a brand, something that could sell perfumes, sunglasses, tote bags and video games. So over the past year the circus brought in consultants, which yielded months of meetings peppered with phrases like these.
"I think there's a real opportunity to elevate the art of clowning."
"Don't focus on the Cirque, focus on the Soleil."
"We want to think of Soleil as the building blocks of vibe."
"We've thrown a lot at you."
"Lots of Soleil!"
"So much Soleil."
Cirque du Soleil hired a "cultural analysts" firm, called Cultique, to answer an age-old question: Is it possible to hack popularity?
Cultique argues that it is. Analysts there are in the business of selling cool. And their work with the circus this year has offered a glimpse into what it takes to change a business's reputation, to do a brand makeover at a time when social media has made branding both more important than ever and more fraught.
Cirque's leaders felt confident that their company embodied everything Gen Z loves: campy outfits, kitschy makeup, feats of athletic daring. Sequins, spandex, being extra. Yet few of that generation -- people born from 1997 to 2012, who now have $ 360 billion in consumer power -- seemed interested in the circus. Cirque's more than 40 shows sell 10 million tickets a year around the world, with a focus on its American home in Las Vegas, but mostly to a middle-age (or very young) audience. The average Cirque attendee is 42, according to the company. More than two-thirds have children under 18.
Cirque du Soleil turned to Cultique to become relevant. And Cultique promised, improbably, that even at a moment when culture seems to move at the speed of (sorry) a flying trapeze, it's possible for a savvy old business to catch up.
"We literally help people get ahead of the curve," said Linda Ong, Cultique's co-founder and chief executive, later adding, "The secret sauce to our business is we help brands anticipate what's going to change before it's widely acknowledged."
It's not exactly obvious how to define culture. It's everything we wear (crochet, sheer); listen to (Dua Lipa, Doja Cat); watch ("Real Housewives," "Barbie"). Ms. Ong uses water-based metaphors to describe it. Culture is a wave. You can ride it or get pulled under.
Seemingly invincible brands have shown what it's like to feel the culture wave crash. Pepsi ended up pulling a 2017 advertisement that showed Kendall Jenner handing a soda can to a police officer. Bud Light lost its status as America's top-selling beer after it faced backlash for a video from a transgender influencer promoting the beer this spring. If culture is water, the surface is murky.
Enter Ms. Ong and her business partner, Sarah Unger, who promise to help companies devise business strategies, marketing campaigns and products that appeal to cultural sensibilities -- before those sensibilities are even fully formed. Cultique doesn't rely much on data. Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger believe that once trends show up in surveys, it's too late. It's best to identify cultural obsessions before they're on TikTok, before young people are talking about them, right before anyone recognizes they're real.
"There are two kinds of people," Ms. Ong, 60, said. "People who get turned on by culture and people who don't understand it."
The notion that anyone -- let alone a 60-year-old and 37-year-old corporate duo Zooming from Los Angeles -- can describe cultural fixations before they manifest sounds dubious. Popular culture, after all, is not all that different from other cultures, like cheese, yogurt or kombucha. It's alive. It's organic. It isn't designed by some all-knowing authority. It just happens.
But Cultique's founders swear that cultural relevance, like any element of business, can be studied and controlled. Last year, that work brought in $ 3.8 million in revenue for Cultique, which has just two full-time employees and typically a dozen or so contractors. Skeptical, I decided to follow them as they took on the task of transforming Cirque du Soleil.
'How Do We Become the Theme at the Met Gala?'
Everyone at Cirque du Soleil was astounded to hear I'd never been to Cirque du Soleil.
"It's your first Cirque?" said the company's senior tour director, Michael Veilleux, during intermission at a Cirque show called Corteo (theme: funeral meets carnival) in Newark. "You don't meet many people who it's their first Cirque."
He really doesn't. That's partly the problem.
Cirque's shows, as I witnessed, have pole dancers, upside-down shoes without feet and clowns dressed up like horse butts. They have audiences of parents looking harried and children chucking popcorn on the floor. What they don't seem to have is an expansive base of young adult fans.
It was Covid that prompted Cirque du Soleil's existential crisis, and decision to chase a new cultural image. After Cirque's executives tended to all their immediate March 2020 demands -- sending performers home, storing hoops and silks away in warehouses -- the Montreal-based company furloughed 95 percent of its 5,000-person staff. Only roughly 150 remained. After vaccines, as the circus began to rehire those workers, executives swore they'd pandemic-proof their business. Cirque couldn't be entirely reliant on its performances.
Today, about 80 percent of its revenue comes from live shows. The company's chief growth officer, Nickole Tara, can envision a time when performances will account for just 20 percent of the revenue stream.
Executives at Cirque are experimenting with anything a young person curious about the circus might buy. A video game called Cirque du Soleil Tycoon set for release on July 28, with the gaming company Roblox, in which players can build their own circus world. A signature fragrance (for the clown lover in your life) and a line of home goods (think maximalist rugs and psychedelic curtains). Corporate partnerships with companies like Motorola, which introduced its new flip phone in an event in June produced with Cirque.
Cirque is working on a television documentary series, likely to be called "Down to Clown." It is planning a convention styled after Comic-Con, the fantasy events that draw tens of thousands of people annually, which it hopes to launch this year.
"We are going to try so many new things," said the circus's head of growth, Ms. Tara, 39, who last year left the music festival world for a newly created leadership position at Cirque. "We have to embrace the Cirque of the modern era."
Some brands ooze the kind of cachet that people want to wear. Supreme sneakers. Kylie cosmetics. Others have to think a little harder about the version of themselves that they could commodify -- like how to turn a zany old circus into a brand people consider relevant.
On this question, Cultique has been full of ideas, especially during a meeting in early March, when a handful of Cirque executives joined its cultural analysts to discuss what success would look like for their partnership.
"How do we become the theme at the Met Gala?" Ms. Tara mused.
"It's not a crazy idea," Ms. Ong responded. "How do you make your events the Met Gala equivalent?"
The assembled group -- which included Cirque's head of global branding and social media, Chris Bower, and the Cultique analyst Rajiv Menon -- agreed that it wanted Cirque to be ubiquitous. They wanted people to wonder why everywhere they looked there was Cirque du Soleil. Roaming Art Basel. Holding court at New York Fashion Week. Spotted with Jenna Ortega. Partnering with Versace.
"'Oh my God, everywhere I turn Cirque is doing cool things with cool people,"' Ms. Ong said, imagining the party chatter she wants to generate.
To Ms. Ong, this doesn't seem like an inordinately tall order, because she already sees young people embracing the qualities associated with the circus, especially over-the-top performance. They're just not making the connection to Cirque's business. In her mind, Cirque needs to publicly own the themes percolating in culture, what she and Ms. Unger refer to as "the Soleil Strategy."
"It's like porn," Ms. Ong said. "Everybody knows the Cirque du Soleil vibe when they see it."
The Zeitgeist Whisperers
You'd be forgiven for thinking "cultural analysis" was required reading for a humanities seminar, or a mash-up of modern art and Freud. But for Cultique, it's a business venture, which can feel like a surprise even to Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger, who are still processing the fact that they make their living talking about the television, art, fashion and music they love. (Their weekly Substack is called "Culture Porn.")
Ms. Ong grew up in the 1970s in Texas, where she was the only Chinese American in her mostly white elementary school class. Once while playing dodge ball, one of her classmates pointed at her and yelled: "Give the ball to that Mexican girl!" Culture made Ms. Ong feel less lonely. She binge-consumed "Hotel California," "Gilligan's Island," Reader's Digest and "The Brady Bunch."
Ms. Ong moved to New York after college and then bounced around advertising jobs. She helped lead branding for Bravo. She realized she had a talent: telling corporate people what cool people were talking about.
As a longtime marketer, Ms. Ong loves metaphors. One of her favorites compares Cultique's work to testing the atmosphere in preparation for a rocket launch. Their clients are building the ship, making sure all the parts are working. Doesn't it make sense to ensure the atmosphere is amenable to flight?
American Express Global Business Travel hired Cultique in 2021 to study how corporate travel is changing. Cultique's white paper recommended that companies appoint "chief journey officers," making travel a bigger part of company life. Cultique characteristically interspersed corporate phrases with zeitgeisty lingo: wellness, burnout, hybrid work.
Buttoned-up clients (including Amex) like Cultique because even its workplace policies are playful. The company has a four-day workweek. Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger did a boot camp to study their brain waves and determine which parts of the day they'd be most productive.
Both Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger regularly enter what they call the "cone of silence," when they stop communicating with one another and instead rabidly consume culture, which can mean, depending on the day: "Love Is Blind" (Ms. Unger); "The Bear" (Ms. Ong); heavy metal (Ms. Unger); World Wrestling Entertainment (Ms. Unger); going to a wolf sanctuary (Ms. Ong); getting on a motorcycle (Ms. Unger).
They keep group chats with their clients going all day, sending articles, songs, videos or TikToks that relate to the work, which in Cirque's case they call "Cirquecore."
"Has there ever been a CIRQUE Barbie?" read one recent text from Cultique.
"HERMES' new fragrance is 'the sun as perfume,"' read another.
"I also am interested to think of Cirque's performance as religion," Ms. Unger wrote to the group one day. "People are more spiritual than ever, esp. Gen Z."
Magical Mystery Tour
The word nostalgia came up often in conversations about reinventing Cirque. "Nostalgia brands are having a moment," Mr. Menon, a Cultique cultural analyst, declared over Zoom one day. What could be more nostalgic than the circus, with its popcorn and clown noses?
Speaking of nostalgia, sometimes what Cirque seems to be chasing is its history. Before Cirque was a company making close to $ 1 billion per year -- which it is doing again today, after bouncing back from its pandemic slump -- it was a scrappy group of acrobats and stilt walkers putting on a show for residents at a youth hostel in Quebec City. Cirque's founder, Guy Laliberté, who stepped down as chief executive in 2004, came up as a fire-breathing performer on the streets of Montreal. He cobbled together his artist friends to create a festival.
Mr. Laliberté has attributed part of the show's success, over the years, to parties he threw at his lakefront mansion: Women sang opera on gondolas, a 19-piece orchestra serenaded the crowds, the host himself breathed fire. These raucous gatherings have attracted celebrities to Cirque's mission, including George Harrison, who once attended randomly while in town to watch Formula 1 and was so impressed that he asked Mr. Laliberté to make a Beatles-themed show. (The first business meeting between Cirque and the band ended as Paul McCartney drew a picture of Nowhere Man, handed the paper over and told the Cirque team to "figure out what this means.")
If the Beatles loved Cirque's brand, why not Gen Z?
Sitting through a Cirque performance is also a reminder of the features that to some audiences could seem out of step with the times.
At the show I attended, one of the longest sequences focused on a little person named Valentyna Pahlevanyan, who attached herself to balloons and floated over the sprawling arena as audience members pushed on her feet to send her upward. The room rang out with cries of "I want to touch her!" Then she and her husband, Grigor, also a little person, performed a humorous version of "Romeo and Juliet" with interruptions from clowns. There were also jokes about a large man jumping on one end of a seesaw with a smaller man at the other end.
To Cirque, this is a testament to the show's inclusivity. Michel Laprise, who has directed three of Cirque's shows, said the performers help shape their own roles. Choking up, he likened the performers' relationship with the show to a marriage.
"I want them to be loved by the audience," he said. "It's important that we have little people in our shows. It's a way to say they exist. They're not victims."
"The show tells you that no matter how tall you are, how big you are, whatever your background is or what you look like, you can still work here and do the job that you're meant to do," said Ms. Pahlevanyan, 60, adding that she and her husband helped create their "Romeo and Juliet" sequence to capture the comedy and chaos characteristic of Cirque.
Still, part of what Cirque is looking for is a version of its brand that doesn't need the show for relevance (or for all its revenue).
That ambition is distilled, partly, on the company's social media. On Cirque's TikTok there are prank ideas, fitness tips, Halloween costume inspiration, wedding proposals and Black History Month reflections. In one video, Cirque dancers do ballet to the saccharine strains of Michael Bublé. In another, they compete in a push-up competition.
Since starting its TikTok in 2021 and beginning to emphasize its other social media accounts, the company has accumulated more than eight million followers across platforms. Some of its TikTok videos get three million views, and many of those viewers are far younger than the 42-year-old show attendees.
"Last month the question was raised: How do we get more of our TikTok fans to buy tickets to shows?" Ms. Tara said. "I don't know if that's the point."
Cirque had its strongest financial year in 2022. Sitting at the Ludlow Hotel during a visit to New York this spring, Cirque's executives told their cultural analysts that they'd been creating a video that showed how Cirque's brand could be translated into fashion and home goods.
The video cycled through images of acrobats, trapeze artists and clowns. Then commercial items appeared on the screen -- tote bags, sunglasses, pantsuits, pottery -- along with the text "Prime for retail expansion." It was a vision of what Cirque, divorced from the circus, could be.
"This is what Cirque du Soleil -- and the Soleil -- can look like in a physical object someone would actually go and buy," said Mr. Bower, Cirque's head of branding.
The cultural analysts were dazzled. "We love this relationship," Ms. Ong said. "It's like improv. Y'all take the ball and you're like, 'Great, OK, let's do this!"'
Later that night was Cirque's event with Motorola in Brooklyn. Half-naked acrobats spun through purple, misted air. Eerie percussion music filled the room. Dancers in extraterrestrial-looking leotards leaped across the stage. And as the performers did acrobatic flips, Motorola unveiled its new flip phone, a nostalgic take on the early 2000s accessory.
"OVER THE TOP, OTHERWORLDLY, and AVANT GARDE," Ms. Ong declared over text. "Totally on brand!"
Photograph Above, Linda Ong, left, and Sarah Unger are the founders of Cultique, which they call a "cultural analysts" firm. Cirque du Soleil filed for bankruptcy protection in 2020 and later hired Cultique in the hope of achieving a brand makeover. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE GROSKOPF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA CIRQUE DU SOLEIL) (BU4-BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU4, BU5.

Subject: Young adults; Culture; Generation Z; Circuses; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Cirque du Soleil; NAICS: 711190

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/21/business/gen-z-cirque-du-soleil.html

Title: Is Gen Z Down to Clown?:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 23, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840700146

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown/docview/2840700146/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Is Gen Z Down to Clown? The Circus Is Counting on It.

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown-circus-counting-on/docview/2840650340/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The circus is a thrill, a locus of nostalgia for people who remember summers with family members under colorful tents, a beloved amalgam of the athletic and the absurd, the rare place where jugglers and acrobats and fire breathers can fly free, fodder for countless movies and a Dr. Seuss book — and, not to be a downer, a business.
The circus has to make money to keep its clowns clowning.
Coming out of the pandemic, Cirque du Soleil was in trouble. The company had staked nearly all its revenue in live shows, with their dizzying displays of balletic grace and gravity-defying gymnastics. After filing for bankruptcy protection in 2020, Cirque decided it had to be more than just a circus. It wanted to be a brand, something that could sell perfumes, sunglasses, tote bags and video games. So over the past year the circus brought in consultants, which yielded months of meetings peppered with phrases like these:
“I think there’s a real opportunity to elevate the art of clowning.”
“Don’t focus on the Cirque, focus on the Soleil.”
“We want to think of Soleil as the building blocks of vibe.”
“We’ve thrown a lot at you.”
“Lots of Soleil!”
“So much Soleil.”
Cirque du Soleil hired a “cultural analysts” firm, called Cultique, to answer an age-old question: Is it possible to hack popularity?
Cultique argues that it is. Analysts there are in the business of selling cool. And their work with the circus this year has offered a glimpse into what it takes to change a business’s reputation, to do a brand makeover at a time when social media has made branding both more important than ever and more fraught.
Cirque’s leaders felt confident that their company embodied everything Gen Z loves: campy outfits, kitschy makeup, feats of athletic daring. Sequins, spandex, being extra. Yet few of that generation — people born from 1997 to 2012, who now have $360 billion in consumer power — seemed interested in the circus. Cirque’s more than 40 shows sell 10 million tickets a year around the world, with a focus on its American home in Las Vegas, but mostly to a middle-age (or very young) audience. The average Cirque attendee is 42, according to the company. More than two-thirds have children under 18.
Cirque du Soleil turned to Cultique to become relevant. And Cultique promised, improbably, that even at a moment when culture seems to move at the speed of (sorry) a flying trapeze, it’s possible for a savvy old business to catch up.
“We literally help people get ahead of the curve,” said Linda Ong, Cultique’s co-founder and CEO, later adding, “The secret sauce to our business is we help brands anticipate what’s going to change before it’s widely acknowledged.”
It’s not exactly obvious how to define culture. It’s everything we wear (crochet, sheer); listen to (Dua Lipa, Doja Cat); watch (“Real Housewives,” “Barbie”). Ong uses water-based metaphors to describe it. Culture is a wave. You can ride it or get pulled under.
Seemingly invincible brands have shown what it’s like to feel the culture wave crash. Pepsi ended up pulling a 2017 advertisement that showed Kendall Jenner handing a soda can to a police officer. Bud Light lost its status as America’s top-selling beer after it faced backlash for a video from a transgender influencer promoting the beer this spring. If culture is water, the surface is murky.
Enter Ong and her business partner, Sarah Unger, who promise to help companies devise business strategies, marketing campaigns and products that appeal to cultural sensibilities — before those sensibilities are even fully formed. Cultique doesn’t rely much on data. Ong and Unger believe that once trends show up in surveys, it’s too late. It’s best to identify cultural obsessions before they’re on TikTok, before young people are talking about them, right before anyone recognizes they’re real.
“There are two kinds of people,” Ong, 60, said. “People who get turned on by culture and people who don’t understand it.”
The notion that anyone — let alone a 60-year-old and 37-year-old corporate duo Zooming from Los Angeles — can describe cultural fixations before they manifest sounds dubious. Popular culture, after all, is not all that different from other cultures, like cheese, yogurt or kombucha. It’s alive. It’s organic. It isn’t designed by some all-knowing authority. It just happens.
But Cultique’s founders swear that cultural relevance, like any element of business, can be studied and controlled. Last year, that work brought in $3.8 million in revenue for Cultique, which has just two full-time employees and typically a dozen or so contractors. Skeptical, I decided to follow them as they took on the task of transforming Cirque du Soleil.
‘How Do We Become the Theme at the Met Gala?’
Everyone at Cirque du Soleil was astounded to hear I’d never been to Cirque du Soleil.
“It’s your first Cirque?” said the company’s senior tour director, Michael Veilleux, during intermission at a Cirque show called Corteo (theme: funeral meets carnival) in Newark, New Jersey. “You don’t meet many people who it’s their first Cirque.”
He really doesn’t. That’s partly the problem.
Cirque’s shows, as I witnessed, have pole dancers, upside-down shoes without feet and clowns dressed up like horse butts. They have audiences of parents looking harried and children chucking popcorn on the floor. What they don’t seem to have is an expansive base of young adult fans.
It was COVID that prompted Cirque du Soleil’s existential crisis, and decision to chase a new cultural image. After Cirque’s executives tended to all their immediate March 2020 demands — sending performers home, storing hoops and silks away in warehouses — the Montreal-based company furloughed 95% of its 5,000-person staff. Only roughly 150 remained. After vaccines, as the circus began to rehire those workers, executives swore they’d pandemic-proof their business. Cirque couldn’t be entirely reliant on its performances.
Today, about 80% of its revenue comes from live shows. The company’s chief growth officer, Nickole Tara, can envision a time when performances will account for just 20% of the revenue stream.
Executives at Cirque are experimenting with anything a young person curious about the circus might buy. A video game called Cirque du Soleil Tycoon set for release July 28, with the gaming company Roblox, in which players can build their own circus world. A signature fragrance (for the clown lover in your life) and a line of home goods (think maximalist rugs and psychedelic curtains). Corporate partnerships with companies like Motorola, which introduced its new flip phone in an event in June produced with Cirque.
Cirque is working on a television documentary series, likely to be called “Down to Clown.” It is planning a convention styled after Comic-Con, the fantasy events that draw tens of thousands of people annually, which it hopes to launch this year.
“We are going to try so many new things,” said Tara, 39, who last year left the music festival world for a newly created leadership position at Cirque. “We have to embrace the Cirque of the modern era.”
Some brands ooze the kind of cachet that people want to wear. Supreme sneakers. Kylie cosmetics. Others have to think a little harder about the version of themselves that they could commodify — like how to turn a zany old circus into a brand people consider relevant.
On this question, Cultique has been full of ideas, especially during a meeting in early March, when a handful of Cirque executives joined its cultural analysts to discuss what success would look like for their partnership.
“How do we become the theme at the Met Gala?” Tara mused.
“It’s not a crazy idea,” Ong responded. “How do you make your events the Met Gala equivalent?”
The assembled group — which included Cirque’s head of global branding and social media, Chris Bower, and the Cultique analyst Rajiv Menon — agreed that it wanted Cirque to be ubiquitous. They wanted people to wonder why everywhere they looked there was Cirque du Soleil. Roaming Art Basel. Holding court at New York Fashion Week. Spotted with Jenna Ortega. Partnering with Versace.
“‘Oh, my God, everywhere I turn Cirque is doing cool things with cool people,’” Ong said, imagining the party chatter she wants to generate.
To Ong, this doesn’t seem like an inordinately tall order, because she already sees young people embracing the qualities associated with the circus, especially over-the-top performance. They’re just not making the connection to Cirque’s business. In her mind, Cirque needs to publicly own the themes percolating in culture, what she and Unger refer to as “the Soleil Strategy.”
“It’s like porn,” Ong said. “Everybody knows the Cirque du Soleil vibe when they see it.”
The Zeitgeist Whisperers
You’d be forgiven for thinking “cultural analysis” was required reading for a humanities seminar, or a mashup of modern art and Sigmund Freud. But for Cultique, it’s a business venture, which can feel like a surprise even to Ong and Unger, who are still processing the fact that they make their living talking about the television, art, fashion and music they love. (Their weekly Substack is called “Culture Porn.”)
Ong grew up in the 1970s in Texas, where she was the only Chinese American in her mostly white elementary school class. Once while playing dodge ball, one of her classmates pointed at her and yelled: “Give the ball to that Mexican girl!” Culture made Ong feel less lonely. She binge-consumed “Hotel California,” “Gilligan’s Island,” Reader’s Digest and “The Brady Bunch.”
Ong moved to New York after college and then bounced around advertising jobs. She helped lead branding for Bravo. She realized she had a talent: telling corporate people what cool people were talking about.
As a longtime marketer, Ong loves metaphors. One of her favorites compares Cultique’s work to testing the atmosphere in preparation for a rocket launch. Their clients are building the ship, making sure all the parts are working. Doesn’t it make sense to ensure the atmosphere is amenable to flight?
American Express Global Business Travel hired Cultique in 2021 to study how corporate travel is changing. Cultique’s white paper recommended that companies appoint “chief journey officers,” making travel a bigger part of company life. Cultique characteristically interspersed corporate phrases with zeitgeisty lingo: wellness, burnout, hybrid work.
Buttoned-up clients (including Amex) like Cultique because even its workplace policies are playful. The company has a four-day workweek. Ong and Unger did a boot camp to study their brain waves and determine which parts of the day they’d be most productive.
Both Ong and Unger regularly enter what they call the “cone of silence,” when they stop communicating with one another and instead rabidly consume culture, which can mean, depending on the day: “Love Is Blind” (Unger); “The Bear” (Ong); heavy metal (Unger); World Wrestling Entertainment (Unger); going to a wolf sanctuary (Ong); getting on a motorcycle (Unger).
They keep group chats with their clients going all day, sending articles, songs, videos or TikToks that relate to the work, which in Cirque’s case they call “Cirquecore.”
“Has there ever been a CIRQUE Barbie?” read one recent text from Cultique.
“HERMES’ new fragrance is ‘the sun as perfume,’” read another.
“I also am interested to think of Cirque’s performance as religion,” Unger wrote to the group one day. “People are more spiritual than ever, esp. Gen Z.”
Magical Mystery Tour
The word nostalgia came up often in conversations about reinventing Cirque. “Nostalgia brands are having a moment,” Menon, a Cultique cultural analyst, declared over Zoom one day. What could be more nostalgic than the circus, with its popcorn and clown noses?
Speaking of nostalgia, sometimes what Cirque seems to be chasing is its history. Before Cirque was a company making close to $1 billion per year — which it is doing again today, after bouncing back from its pandemic slump — it was a scrappy group of acrobats and stilt walkers putting on a show for residents at a youth hostel in Quebec City. Cirque’s founder, Guy Laliberté, who stepped down as CEO in 2004, came up as a fire-breathing performer on the streets of Montreal. He cobbled together his artist friends to create a festival.
Laliberté has attributed part of the show’s success, over the years, to parties he threw at his lakefront mansion: Women sang opera on gondolas, a 19-piece orchestra serenaded the crowds, the host himself breathed fire. These raucous gatherings have attracted celebrities to Cirque’s mission, including George Harrison, who once attended randomly while in town to watch Formula One and was so impressed that he asked Laliberté to make a Beatles-themed show. (The first business meeting between Cirque and the band ended as Paul McCartney drew a picture of Nowhere Man, handed the paper over and told the Cirque team to “figure out what this means.”)
If the Beatles loved Cirque’s brand, why not Gen Z?
Sitting through a Cirque performance is also a reminder of the features that to some audiences could seem out of step with the times.
At the show I attended, one of the longest sequences focused on a little person named Valentyna Pahlevanyan, who attached herself to balloons and floated over the sprawling arena as audience members pushed on her feet to send her upward. The room rang out with cries of “I want to touch her!” Then she and her husband, Grigor, also a little person, performed a humorous version of “Romeo and Juliet” with interruptions from clowns. There were also jokes about a large man jumping on one end of a seesaw with a smaller man at the other end.
To Cirque, this is a testament to the show’s inclusivity. Michel Laprise, who has directed three of Cirque’s shows, said the performers help shape their own roles. Choking up, he likened the performers’ relationship with the show to a marriage.
“I want them to be loved by the audience,” he said. “It’s important that we have little people in our shows. It’s a way to say they exist. They’re not victims.”
“The show tells you that no matter how tall you are, how big you are, whatever your background is or what you look like, you can still work here and do the job that you’re meant to do,” said Pahlevanyan, 60, adding that she and her husband helped create their “Romeo and Juliet” sequence to capture the comedy and chaos characteristic of Cirque.
Still, part of what Cirque is looking for is a version of its brand that doesn’t need the show for relevance (or for all its revenue).
That ambition is distilled, partly, on the company’s social media. On Cirque’s TikTok there are prank ideas, fitness tips, Halloween costume inspiration, wedding proposals and Black History Month reflections. In one video, Cirque dancers do ballet to the saccharine strains of Michael Bublé. In another, they compete in a push-up competition.
Since starting its TikTok in 2021 and beginning to emphasize its other social media accounts, the company has accumulated more than 8 million followers across platforms. Some of its TikTok videos get 3 million views, and many of those viewers are far younger than the 42-year-old show attendees.
“Last month the question was raised: How do we get more of our TikTok fans to buy tickets to shows?” Tara said. “I don’t know if that’s the point.”
Cirque had its strongest financial year in 2022. Sitting at the Ludlow Hotel during a visit to New York this spring, Cirque’s executives told their cultural analysts that they’d been creating a video that showed how Cirque’s brand could be translated into fashion and home goods.
The video cycled through images of acrobats, trapeze artists and clowns. Then commercial items appeared on the screen — tote bags, sunglasses, pantsuits, pottery — along with the text “Prime for retail expansion.” It was a vision of what Cirque, divorced from the circus, could be.
“This is what Cirque du Soleil — and the Soleil — can look like in a physical object someone would actually go and buy,” said Bower, Cirque’s head of branding.
The cultural analysts were dazzled. “We love this relationship,” Ong said. “It’s like improv. Y’all take the ball and you’re like, ‘Great, OK, let’s do this!’”
Later that night was Cirque’s event with Motorola in Brooklyn. Half-naked acrobats spun through purple, misted air. Eerie percussion music filled the room. Dancers in extraterrestrial-looking leotards leaped across the stage. And as the performers did acrobatic flips, Motorola unveiled its new flip phone, a nostalgic take on the early 2000s accessory.
“OVER THE TOP, OTHERWORLDLY, and AVANT GARDE,” Ong declared over text. “Totally on brand!”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Young adults; Culture; Generation Z; Circuses; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Cirque du Soleil; NAICS: 711190

Identifier / keyword: California; Shutdowns (Institutional); Ortega, Jenna (2002 ); Appointments And Executive Changes; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Acrobats And Acrobatics; Movies; Romeo And Juliet (Ballet); Parties (Social); Costumes; Quebec Province (Canada); Geisel, Theodor Seuss; Company Reports; New York Fashion Week; Occult Sciences; Videophones And Videoconferencing; Textiles; Ong, Linda; Youth; Elections; Festivals; Pepsico Inc; Beatles, The; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Halloween; Culture (Arts); Chinese Americans; Dancing; Cultique (Marketing Co); Cosmetics And Toiletries; Hiring And Promotion; Cirque Du Soleil; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Love (Emotion); Finances; Roblox Corp; Formula One; Business Travel; Harrison, George; Art; Lipa, Dua; Texas; Snack Foods; Dlamini, Amala Zandile (Doja Cat); Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Music; Montreal (Quebec); Executives And Management (Theory); Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Advertising And Marketin g; Senses And Sensation; New Jersey; Workplace Environment; Education (K 12); Newark (Nj); Tiktok (Bytedance); The Brady Bunch (Tv Program); Bravo; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Computer And Video Games; Laprise, Michel; Two Thousands (Decade); Generation Z; Versace, Gianni, Spa; Real Estate (Commercial); Mccartney, Paul; Pop And Rock Music; Quebec City (Quebec); Comic Books And Strips; Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Met Gala; Television; Travel And Vacations; Unger, Sarah E; Perfumes And Fragrances; Las Vegas (Nev); Box Office Sales; Loneliness; Circuses; Dwarfism; Street Performers; Jenner, Kendall; Business; Models (Professional); American Express Company; Clowns; Classical Music; Age, Chronological; Comedy And Humor

Title: Is Gen Z Down to Clown? The Circus Is Counting on It.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-22T16:24:28Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840650340

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown-circus-counting-on/docview/2840650340/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2840134369/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Friday, July 21, 2023.
INTERNATIONAL
An article on Wednesday about the impact that general election outcomes could have on efforts to exhume mass graves in Spain misstated the profession of a woman executed and buried in the mass graves in Viznar, Spain. She was a tailor, not a barmaid.
ARTS
A picture caption with an article on Tuesday about watching "Oppenheimer" in IMAX 70-millimeter format misidentified the type of projector shown in the background. It was a film projector, not a digital projector.
A Critic's Notebook article on Thursday about Josh Kline's "Another America Is Possible" on view at the Whitney Museum of American Art misstated the beer used in a video installation by Josh Kline. It is Corona, not Budweiser.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A16.

Title: Corrections:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retraction

ProQuest document ID: 2840134369

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2840134369/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Puny Power of 'Woke Capitalism': [Op-Ed]

Author: Polgreen, Lydia

Publication info: Polgreen, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/puny-power-woke-capitalism/docview/2837664240/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Early last year, the musician India.Arie posted a video on her Instagram that caused a lot of headaches for my then-employer, Spotify. It was a mash-up of the many times Spotify's star podcaster, Joe Rogan, had used a racial slur for Black people on his show. I don't need to tell you which slur it was. Unsurprisingly, the video quickly went viral, and a huge uproar ensued.
Rogan had already stirred up controversy by airing Covid misinformation and interviews with transphobic speakers. For Spotify, a company based in Sweden (the supposed mecca of social democracy) that serves entertainment to a largely young, socially conscious consumer base and employs a young, socially conscious work force, you'd think it would be obvious -- if you were to listen to the characterization common from conservative politicians and "heterodox" pundits -- what would happen next. The dictates of "woke capitalism" would surely require a ritual sacrifice of Rogan, despite the huge sums Spotify had paid to bring his show exclusively to its platform. It wouldn't matter that he was the company's No. 1 podcaster. The woke mob had spoken!
Needless to say, that's not how things went. Rogan apologized in a long Instagram video, and Spotify's response was not to pull the plug on his show and torpedo the interests of the company's shareholders. Spotify stood by its star (even as several episodes were quietly removed). It also announced a $ 100 million fund to support underrepresented artists and podcasters. But, according to Bloomberg, a year later the company had spent less than 10 percent of the money.
Behold, the puny power of woke capitalism!
I have been thinking about this incident as I have watched ferocious campaigns building against companies that take even the most milquetoast stands on social and cultural issues, especially those involving gender and sexuality. It reached a peak last month with Pride, leaving a wake of social media videos of people outraged about things like onesies and koozies emblazoned with rainbows.
These fights won't stop with the end of Pride month. They are merely the skirmishes in what is likely to be a long culture war fueled by outrage about everything from the casting of a Black actor as Ariel in Disney's live-action remake of "The Little Mermaid" to investment funds including a modicum of concern about diversity and inclusion in deciding where to put their billions.
"Woke capital" is already a major theme of the Republican presidential race. The threat is apparently so great that Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida invoked Winston Churchill's famous Dunkirk speech, substituting "woke" for the Axis powers as enemy No. 1: "We will wage a war on the woke. We will fight the woke in education, we will fight the woke in the corporations, we will fight the woke in the halls of Congress." Vivek Ramaswamy is couching much of his campaign in the themes of his 2021 book, "Woke, Inc.," an excoriation of so-called woke capitalism that is somehow to blame not just for America's social woes, but its economic problems, too.
This hyping of the power of socially conscious capitalism is understandable given how aggressively the notion has been sold to companies and consumers. Research studies, many of them conducted by companies that advise businesses on corporate social responsibility, have touted the power of "purpose" to drive consumer loyalty.
Color me skeptical. Consumers make choices for many reasons: price, convenience and marketing. Maybe politics. The other day I went to my local Walgreens to buy toothpaste and ultimately chose not my favorite brand but the only one that wasn't under lock and key. I didn't want to wait for an employee to liberate the Colgate, so Crest it was. Needless to say, I did not use Google to find out which brand was more committed to bodily autonomy. What can I say? I was in a hurry.
My somewhat jaundiced view of the possibilities and perils of woke capitalism was shaped by seeing some of this play out from inside the corporate suite, albeit in the limited context of media and tech companies, running the editorial and business ends of a podcast company at Spotify and a global news organization, HuffPost, when it was owned by Verizon Media.
I have bad news for combatants on both sides of this war. For those on the left who take comfort in seeing big companies take bold stands on issues they care about, I'm here to tell you that those companies care much more about their bottom line than your beloved issue (see Spotify example above).
And those on the right who feel that the wind is at their back with successful boycotts of "woke" brands are likely to be disappointed for similar reasons. Even this year's big success -- a boycott of Bud Light after it worked with a transgender influencer as part of a broader social media campaign that apparently caused the stock of the brewing giant Anheuser-Busch to drop -- was a Pyrrhic victory: It is all but impossible to find beer companies that don't participate in celebrating Pride, thereby doing exactly what the right accuses them of: pushing a liberal agenda antithetical to conservative mores.
It turns out queer consumers and their allies are important to companies' bottom line, and -- especially in a tight labor market -- companies can hardly afford to alienate queer workers and their families and supporters. Even after getting dinged by conservative consumers and gay rights activists, Bud Light pledged to keep supporting queer businesses.
These fights disguise a bigger truth: Corporations, far from dictating cultural mores from some capitalist Mount Olympus, reflect and co-opt the social trends around them.
In 2018, as the Black Lives Matter movement gathered force, Nike created a controversial ad campaign with Colin Kaepernick, the Black football player who famously knelt during the national anthem to protest police racism and brutality toward Black civilians. The backlash was huge, but ultimately the social tide went in Nike's favor: Its stock price popped and the advertising campaign was seen as a bold success.
But corporations can also shift course, quite seamlessly, when the mood changes.
At Cannes Lions, an advertising festival held each June in the South of France, members of this year's jury that hands out awards for ad campaigns were instructed to steer clear of politics and celebrate work that was more focused on commercial success, Semafor reported.
This is a remarkable turnaround. I attended the festival a couple of times in my years as a media executive, and it often seemed like a competition to see what company could out-do-gooder the rest. It reminded me of a line from the HBO comedy "Silicon Valley," in which a tech executive declares, "I don't want to live in a world where someone else is making the world a better place better than we are."
After the murder of George Floyd, companies fell all over themselves to embrace Black causes. Some actions were gestures that cost nothing, like music streaming services observing a period of silence. Content companies pledged to increase their programming for, by and about Black people. Many businesses made pledges to diversify hiring, especially in their executive ranks.
But the evidence so far shows little progress on these pledges. Netflix, the once unstoppable juggernaut that seemed likely to eat Hollywood for breakfast, is an interesting case in point. As its growth has slowed and the political climate has changed, it reportedly shelved a plan to produce an anti-racist video series. A look at its published diversity and inclusion track record shows a small decline in the proportion of Black employees generally and executives in particular.
Thomas Frank, a historian and journalist who has chronicled the culture wars for decades, told me that he "always suspected that the backlash politics that rolled over the country in the late '60s and all through the 1970s came, at least in part, from the way commercial culture rubbed the noses of Middle America in coolness and in Middle America's own inadequacy and uncoolness. But the political backlash that resulted didn't hurt the corporations at all -- on the contrary, they eventually just changed their marketing approach to fit the new mood and then entered a golden age with Reagan and the 1980s."
The center left has been lulled by its seeming cultural power, which buttresses the belief that progress is inevitable if the time frame is elongated enough. In a world with "RuPaul's Drag Race," "How could we be talking about locking up drag queens?" we gasp.
The deeper problem is that our politics is not responsive to people's preferences. Our systems of government increasingly favor electoral minorities -- like gerrymandered state legislatures in a polarized environment -- rather than common-sense compromise. This leads to ideological zealotry. There are almost no checks on a state legislature bent on maximum cruelty.
In this atmosphere it is not that surprising that progressive consumers have turned to corporations to be a mirror of their concerns. Despite clear majority support for abortion rights and L.G.B.T.Q. rights, we are tilting ever more toward a system that allows a fanatical minority to impose its views as law. It's easier for us to hold corporations accountable than politicians. We make decisions about how to spend our money every day. Best-case scenario is you vote in new officials every couple of years.
But woke capitalism is a paper tiger. Companies embrace identity and cultural inclusion as a way to expand their market share to new communities while obscuring their raw political power and the ruthless underpinning realities of shareholder capitalism. Elites on the right, meanwhile, know very well that it is a paper tiger but are more than happy to play along with a shuck and jive that allows them to wield "woke" as a cudgel against the left -- and for some voters, it does the vital job of stoking resentment.
Following the dictates of plain old capitalism, Spotify choosing to stand by Joe Rogan, once the company had signed him up as an exclusive podcaster, was a good business decision. But the decision also made business sense for other reasons. It meant that if a right-wing mob came for queer programming on the platform, the company could point to that decision as it defends hosting podcasts that my colleagues made, stuff like "The Two Princes," a fantasy show for kids about two princes who fall in love, and "Gay Pride & Prejudice," a modern take on the Jane Austen classic. A simple policy of consistency about free speech within defined limits rather than appeals to the extremes of the culture wars is, frankly, better for everyone.
Above all, these partisan spats over politics and business serve as a useful reminder for everyone across the political spectrum: Corporations are not your friends. They do not represent your interests. Yield to their power at your own peril.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page SR8.

Subject: Social responsibility; Brand loyalty; Culture; Consumers; Political activism; Success; Black people; Social networks; State elections; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Capitalism; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Social responsibility Brand loyalty Consumers Social networks Capitalism Breweries

Company / organization: Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/12/opinion/woke-capitalism-diversity-lgbt-companies -pride.html

Title: The Puny Power of 'Woke Capitalism':   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 16, 2023

column: Lydia Polgreen

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2837664240

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/puny-power-woke-capitalism/docview/2837664240/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2835364853/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LABOR
U.A.W. to Open Talks
With Big 3 Automakers
The United Auto Workers union said on Monday that it will open contract talks with Detroit's Big Three automakers on Thursday, with the current four-year labor deal set to expire in September.
Talks will open on Thursday with Chrysler's parent, Stellantis; on Friday with Ford Motor; and next Tuesday with General Motors.
U.A.W.'s president, Shawn Fain, has said repeatedly that the union wants to eliminate the two-tier wage system under which new hires earn as much as 25 percent less than veterans. He will also push to restore benefits cut during the 2008-2009 Great Recession.
In a break with tradition, the U.A.W. will forgo the traditional media event of shaking hands with company executives to mark the formal opening of talks.
"I'll shake hands with the C.E.O.s when they come to the table with a deal that reflects the needs of the workers who make this industry run," Mr. Fain said in a statement. REUTERS
BEER
Modelo Leads Beer Sales
As Bud Light Struggles
Modelo Especial was the top-selling beer brand in the United States for a second consecutive month in June, after first dethroning Bud Light in May.
Sales of Bud Light, which held the top spot in 2022 and in the first four months of this year, have dropped after a backlash from conservatives over a social media promotion with a transgender influencer, Dylan Mulvaney.
Modelo Especial, produced by Constellation Brands, was the top-selling beer brand for the four weeks that ended July 1, with an 8.7 percent share of overall beer sales through retail stores, while Bud Light, from Anheuser-Busch InBev, came in second with a 7 percent share, according to Bump Williams, which sources data from NielsenIQ.
Anheuser-Busch's chief executive, Michel Doukeris, said in May that it was too early to have a full view of the impact of the backlash against Pride-linked promotions.
Sales of Bud Light fell 28 percent from a year earlier. Modelo Especial sales rose 8.5 percent.
REUTERS
INTERNATIONAL
Foxconn Backs Out
Of Chip Tie-Up in India
Taiwan's Foxconn has withdrawn from a $ 19.5 billion semiconductor joint venture with Indian conglomerate Vedanta, it said on Monday, in a setback to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's chipmaking plans for India.
The world's largest contract electronics maker signed a pact with Vedanta last year to set up production plants in Mr. Modi's home state of Gujarat.
"Foxconn has determined it will not move forward on the joint venture with Vedanta," a Foxconn statement said without elaborating on the reasons.
The company said it had worked with Vedanta for more than a year to bring "a great semiconductor idea to reality," but they had mutually decided to end the joint venture and it will remove its name from an entity that is now fully owned by Vedanta.
Vedanta said it is committed to its semiconductor project and had "lined up other partners to set up India's first foundry." REUTERS
Credit: By Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Automobile industry; Joint ventures; Automobile sales; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Joint ventures Automobile sales Breweries

Location: India

Company / organization: Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/10/business/11bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 11, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2835364853

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2835364853/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

29ish: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Solis, Marie

Publication info: Solis, Marie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/29ish/docview/2831912860/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There is only one Ryan Seacrest. That may surprise anyone who looks closely at his overlapping radio and TV hosting gigs, which will soon include "Wheel of Fortune." When he steps into that new role, Mr. Seacrest will be seen and heard for some 29 hours a week.
Mr. Seacrest left "Live," the morning show he hosted with Kelly Ripa, in February after a six-year run. But he is still the host of "American Idol," the singing competition show that made him a household name. He is also the host of the syndicated radio programs "On Air With Ryan Seacrest" and "American Top 40 With Ryan Seacrest."
"American Idol" is typically on television for two hours a week, though at some points in the season there are two-hour episodes, twice a week, and the season finale is three hours. "On Air" is on the radio every morning. And "American Top 40" is another four hours every Sunday.
Add in "Wheel of Fortune," a 30-minute show that runs every weeknight, and that comes out to more than a full day each week of Ryan Seacrest. (And that doesn't count his "New Year's Rockin' Eve" special, which stretches into nearly six hours once a year.)
Granted, Mr. Seacrest may not be doing all of these programs at the same time. But he is essentially a one-man hosting monopoly, and while his schedule varies, in the past he has gotten up around 6 a.m. every day to get it all done.
With "Wheel of Fortune," though, he has big shoes to fill: Pat Sajak, who announced his retirement this month, is virtually synonymous with the nightly game show, and he had been its host since the 1980s.
"I'm truly humbled to be stepping into the footsteps of the legendary Pat Sajak," Mr. Seacrest said this week.
"We should remain humble about how risks can arise and continue our work to ensure that banks are resilient to a range of economic scenarios, market shocks and other stresses."
Michael S. Barr, the Federal Reserve's vice chair for supervision, on the stress tests of the country's banks.
"At this point, it's cheaper than some of the cases of water we're selling in the back."
Andy Wagner, the manager of a beer and soda warehouse in Pennsylvania, about the sinking value of Bud Light.
"I believe that they're going to use Call of Duty somehow to damage us."
Jim Ryan, the chief executive of Sony, during testimony in a trial over whether Microsoft can move ahead in its acquisition of the maker of the video game Call of Duty.
This article appeared in print on page BU2.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/30/business/the-big-number-29ish.html

Title: 29ish:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 2, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831912860

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/29ish/docview/2831912860/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Admissions Could Be Even More Subjective: [National Desk]

Author: Anemona Hartocollis

Publication info: Anemona Hartocollis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/admissions-could-be-even-more-subjective/docview/2831149510/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Colleges have a game plan, like emphasizing the personal essay, but so do conservative groups that promise to monitor and, if necessary, go back to court.
In the Supreme Court decision striking down racial and ethnic preferences in college admissions, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. had harsh words for Harvard and the University of North Carolina, calling their admissions process "elusive," "opaque" and "imponderable."
But the court's ruling against the two universities on Thursday could lead to an admissions system that is even more subjective and mysterious, as colleges try to follow the law but also admit a diverse class of students.
Officials at some universities predicted that there would be less emphasis on standardized metrics like test scores and class rank, and more emphasis on personal qualities, told through recommendations and the application essay -- the opposite of what many opponents of affirmative action had hoped for.
"Will it become more opaque? Yes, it will have to," said Danielle Ren Holley, who is about to take over as president of Mount Holyoke College. "It's a complex process, and this opinion will make it even more complex."
In an interview, Edward Blum, the founder and president of Students for Fair Admissions, the plaintiff, defended what he called "standard measurements" of academic qualifications, citing studies that showed test scores, grades and coursework helped determine which students would thrive at competitive schools.
He promised to enforce the decision, saying that Students for Fair Admissions and its counsel "have been closely monitoring potential changes in admissions procedures."
"We remain vigilant and intend to initiate litigation should universities defiantly flout this clear ruling," he wrote in a statement on Thursday.
It would be nearly impossible, however, to eliminate any mention or suggestion of race in the admissions process -- starting with applicants' names. And in the decision, Justice Roberts specifically kept the door open to consider racial or ethnic background in someone's lived experience.
"Nothing in this opinion should be construed as prohibiting universities from considering an applicant's discussion of how race affected his or her life, be it through discrimination, inspiration or otherwise," he wrote.
Still, he warned that the personal essay could not play a stealth role in telegraphing race. "In other words, the student must be treated based on his or her experiences as an individual -- not on the basis of race," he wrote. "Many universities have for too long done just the opposite."
Universities, including Harvard and U.N.C., said on Thursday that they would comply with the ruling. But for outside skeptics, untangling a university's intentions will be challenging. How can they know whether an admissions decision was based on an essay about personal grit -- or the race of the applicant that it revealed?
"I think a very plausible outcome of this will be that schools will just cheat and say, 'Let's see who gets sued,"' said Richard Sander, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has been critical of affirmative action. "The chances of an individual school getting sued are low, and the cost of suing is really high."
Some education officials have already discussed how to leverage the essay. In a recent presentation sponsored by the American Council on Education, Shannon Gundy, the director of undergraduate admissions at the University of Maryland, said students should tailor their admissions essays to describe how race had affected their lives.
"Right now, students write about their soccer practice, they write about their grandmother dying," she said, adding: "They don't write about their trials and tribulations. They don't write about the challenges that they've had to experience."
Colleges could also ask for other more pointed essays, along the lines of the "diversity, equity and inclusion" statements that have become a familiar part of faculty hiring.
Ms. Holley, the incoming Mount Holyoke president, imagined a question that would say something like: "One of the core values of Mount Holyoke College is diversity of all kinds. Please tell us why you value it, and what you think you bring to the Mount Holyoke community in terms of diversity."
College officials are predicting that the decision will lead to an immediate drop in the number of Black and Hispanic students at selective universities, echoing the experiences of California and Michigan after those states adopted bans on affirmative action at their public universities years ago. Black students at the University of California, Berkeley, made up only 3.4 percent of last fall's incoming freshman class, a quarter-century after the ban took effect.
But many of the 100 or so schools that practice affirmative action have been planning for this moment for months, if not years. And they have already made moves toward a "race-neutral" admissions era -- one that tries to follow the letter of the law, while finding ways to keep the ethos of affirmative action.
Academic rigor is still important, but standardized tests? Not needed, and in some cases, not even read.
Schools are increasingly giving preferences to high-achieving students from low-income families or to "first-gen" applicants -- the first in their families to go to college. They are pouring money into supporting students and offering more need-based financial aid.
Some selective colleges will also most likely play a much more direct role in nurturing prospective applicants.
The University of Virginia, for example, announced a plan this month to target 40 high schools in eight regions of the state that had little history of sending applicants. Duke University just promised full tuition grants to students from North and South Carolina with family incomes of $ 150,000 or less.
"The hardest part really is identifying and recruiting the students," said Alison Byerly, president of Carleton College, which she said would expand its partnerships with community organizations.
The students are out there, said L. Song Richardson, president of Colorado College. "If we believe that talent is equally distributed" across demographic groups, she said, "then you would expect an unbiased recruitment process to result in a diverse class."
Some educators believe that California's experience after its 1996 ban on affirmative action shows that such programs can work. The U.C. system overall admitted its most diverse class ever in 2021. But recruiting was expensive; the price was in the hundreds of millions of dollars, and the top campus, Berkeley, is still struggling to catch up.
The risks are different for some public universities, like the University of North Carolina or the University of Virginia, which have already had run-ins with conservative politicians over "diversity, equity and inclusion" policies. They will very likely tread carefully when it comes to any murky race-neutral policies.
"One of the real movements you see from public universities is to be as apolitical as they possibly can, in red states and in blue states," said Gordon Gee, the president of West Virginia University. "It's kind of a Bud Light moment," he said, referring to the beer company's ill-fated hiring of a transgender spokeswoman that led to a boycott.
There could also be pressure to blow up the entire process, eliminating preferences for the children of alumni and donors, who tend to be white and wealthy.
So far, most schools have resisted those entreaties, saying that these preferences build community and assist in fund-raising. But with cynicism around college admissions high and many believing the system is rigged for the well off and well connected, the court's decision could force a reckoning.
"This is a big setback to racial justice, but it's also an opportunity," said Jerome Karabel, a U.C. Berkeley sociologist who has studied college admissions. "Now is the time to go back to the drawing boards and see what we can do. There are a million ideas out there."
Stephanie Saul contributed reporting.
Stephanie Saul contributed reporting.
Photograph PHOTOS (A1); Shannon Gundy, left, is the director of undergraduate admissions at the University of Maryland. Affirmative action has been banned for decades at the University of California, Berkeley, center. L. Song Richardson, right, is the president of Colorado College. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHURAN HUANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEPHEN SPERANZA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14; A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14, A15.

ERIC Subject: Standardized Tests; Universities; Ethnicity; High Achievement; Low Income Groups; Affirmative Action; Personnel Selection; Tuition Grants; College Admission; Public Colleges; Presidents; Race; Qualifications; Family Income; Racial Differences; Class Rank; Justice; Admission Criteria; Court Litigation; Preferences; Community Relations

Subject: Students; College admissions; Achievement tests; Schools; Personal essays; Supreme Court decisions; Presidents; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Race; Affirmative action

Location: United States--US; Colorado; California

Company / organization: Name: University of North Carolina; NAICS: 611310; Name: Colorado College; NAICS: 611310; Name: Mount Holyoke College; NAICS: 611310; Name: University of Maryland; NAICS: 611310; Name: University of Virginia; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/29/us/affirmative-action-college-admissions-future.html

Title: Admissions Could Be Even More Subjective:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 30, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: Unit ed States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831149510

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/admissions-could-be-even-more-subjective/docview/2831149510/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 30, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Retailers Are Awash in Bud Light As Right-Wing Boycott Takes Toll: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/retailers-are-awash-bud-light-as-right-wing/docview/2831149473/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The brand is still struggling to win back customers. Nowhere is that more apparent than at stores, where cases of the beer sit untouched.
On a recent steamy Sunday afternoon, customers strolled through the aisles of Glenn Miller's Beer & Soda Warehouse, where overhead fans circulated the hot air.
People heading to picnics, graduation parties and other get-togethers in Lemoyne, a Pennsylvania community just across the Susquehanna River from Harrisburg, breezed into the store, passing myriad displays of beers, with cases of top brands stacked high.
Next to 30-packs of Miller Lite, on sale for $ 24.99, sat a stack of Bud Light. A large banner above it noted that, after a rebate, a 30-pack cost a mere $ 8.99.
Andy Wagner, the manager and an 18-year veteran of the store, said the Miller Lite was selling well. And the Bud Light? Not so much.
"At this point, it's cheaper than some of the cases of water we're selling in the back," Mr. Wagner said, noting that sales of Bud Light at the store since mid-April were down 45 percent from a year ago. "It's just not moving like it used to."
Nearly three months after the transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney posted a video on her Instagram account to promote a Bud Light contest, setting off online outrage from the right and a boycott, the beer brand is still struggling to win back loyal, longtime customers.
For more than two decades, Bud Light was the best-selling beer in the United States. Its sales exceeded $ 5 billion last year, roughly 9 percent of Anheuser-Busch InBev's revenue. But since the boycott, Bud Light has been dethroned by Modelo Especial. In the four weeks that ended in mid-June, the volume of Bud Light sold nationally plunged an average of 29 percent from a year earlier, according to data from the research firm NIQ, analyzed by the consulting firm Bump Williams.
Anheuser-Busch's stock has also dropped more than 15 percent since early April. The company did not respond to a request for comment for this article.
In an interview on Wednesday with "CBS Mornings," Brendan Whitworth, the chief executive of Anheuser-Busch North America Zone, acknowledged that the last few weeks had been "challenging" for the brand.
"The conversation surrounding Bud Light has moved away from beer," Mr. Whitworth said, adding that he took responsibility for the controversy's impact on the company's employees, customers and distribution partners. "The conversation has become divisive, and Bud Light really doesn't belong there."
When asked if he would run the campaign with a transgender influencer again, Mr. Whitworth didn't directly respond.
"There's a big social conversation taking place right now, and big brands are right in the middle of it," he said. "And it's not just our industry or Bud Light. It's happening in retail. It's happening in fast food.
"And so for us, what we need to understand is, deeply understand and appreciate, is the consumer and what they want, what they care about and what they expect from big brands."
With the summer sales season well underway -- the four months between May and August make up as much as 40 percent of annual beer sales -- the question swirling around Bud Light is whether the slump is temporary or the new normal.
"Here we are about 10 weeks into it, and we're still seeing double-digit declines in volumes nationally," said Bump Williams, who runs the consulting firm that bears his name. "This is no longer an anomaly. This is a trend of concern."
Indeed, most larger beer distributors or wholesalers -- middlemen who buy brands from brewers like Anheuser-Busch and Molson Coors and then sell them to stores, restaurants and bars -- believe the fallout will last more than six months, according to a survey released this month by the Wall Street investment bank Jefferies. A third of distributors believe the impact on Bud Light will be permanent.
Mr. Wagner said Anheuser-Busch had made a mistake when its marketing broke what he called "bar rules." That means "no politics, no religion." He noted that Glenn Miller's had never allowed local politicians to put up signs in or around the store so as not to alienate customers.
When asked how long he thought the sales declines would linger, Mr. Wagner shrugged. "I've seen longtime Bud Light customers trying other beers," he said. "If they find something they like, they may not come back."
Beer distributors, many of them independent or family-owned businesses, are acutely aware of the drop in Bud Light sales.
Steve Tatum, the general manager of family-owned Bama Budweiser in Montgomery, Ala., paid for a local radio commercial to discuss the backlash to Bud Light. "We, too, at Bama Budweiser are upset about it and have made our feelings known to the top leadership at Anheuser-Busch," Mr. Tatum said in the ad. He added that his company, an independent wholesaler, employed "around 100 people who live here, work here, and our children go to school here."
Mr. Tatum did not respond to a request for comment.
Anheuser-Busch also seems to be trying to remind the public of the people behind the beer. On Wednesday, the company released an ad campaign, "We Make the Beer," which focuses on the numerous steps involved in making beer, as well as the individuals behind the process. It has also hinted that it may bring back the popular Bud Knight character in advertising as part of its effort to move past the controversy.
The company has also been buying back or swapping out cases of Bud Light sitting in distributor warehouses when they reach their "best by" dates. In June, the company unveiled a multitiered plan to its distributors that included sales incentive payments and reimbursement for freight and fuel charges through the end of the year, according to Beer Business Daily.
For Glenn Miller's, the repercussions from the Bud Light controversy have not had much of a business impact. Operating since 1986, the retailer sells 1,500 brands of beer in its 18,000-square-foot warehouse.
"So if a consumer decides against a Bud Light, which is now down 30 percent year to date, they are fine in finding something else to try," Rodney Miller, the chief executive of Glenn Miller's, said in an email. (Mr. Miller founded the retailer with his father, Glenn.)
Mr. Wagner echoed those sentiments as he walked through the store's aisles.
"It's not that they stopped drinking beer," he said of his customers. "They just stopped buying Bud Light."
Photograph Andy Wagner, above, manager of Glenn Miller's Beer & Soda in Lemoyne, Pa. (B1); Bud Light was the longtime top-selling beer in the country before recently dropping behind Modelo Especial. At Glenn Miller's Beer & Soda, above, sales of Bud Light since mid-April were down 45 percent from a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RACHEL WISNIEWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Sales; Consulting firms; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales Consulting firms Breweries

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/29/business/bud-light-sales.html

Title: Retailers Are Awash in Bud Light As Right-Wing Boycott Takes Toll:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831149473

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/retailers-are-awash-bud-light-as-right-wing/docview/2831149473/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cheaper Than Water? Retailers Try to Unload Bud Light.

Author: Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cheaper-than-water-retailers-try-unload-bud-light/docview/2831030939/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LEMOYNE, Pa. — On a recent steamy Sunday afternoon, customers strolled through the aisles of Glenn Miller’s Beer & Soda Warehouse, where overhead fans circulated the hot air.
People heading to picnics, graduation parties and other get-togethers in Lemoyne, a Pennsylvania community just across the Susquehanna River from Harrisburg, breezed into the store, passing myriad displays of beers, with cases of top brands stacked high.
Next to 30-packs of Miller Lite, on sale for $24.99, sat a stack of Bud Light. A large banner above it noted that, after a rebate, a 30-pack cost a mere $8.99.
Andy Wagner, the manager and an 18-year veteran of the store, said the Miller Lite was selling well. And the Bud Light? Not so much.
“At this point, it’s cheaper than some of the cases of water we’re selling in the back,” Wagner said, noting that sales of Bud Light at the store since mid-April were down 45% from a year ago. “It’s just not moving like it used to.”
Nearly three months after transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney posted a video on her Instagram account to promote a Bud Light contest, setting off online outrage from the right and a boycott, the beer brand is still struggling to win back loyal, longtime customers.
For more than two decades, Bud Light was the bestselling beer in the United States. Its sales exceeded $5 billion last year, roughly 9% of Anheuser-Busch InBev’s revenue. But since the boycott, Bud Light has been dethroned by Modelo Especial. In the four weeks that ended in mid-June, the volume of Bud Light sold nationally plunged an average of 29% from a year earlier, according to data from the research firm NIQ, analyzed by the consulting firm Bump Williams.
Anheuser-Busch’s stock has also dropped more than 15% since early April. The company did not respond to a request for comment for this article.
In an interview Wednesday with “CBS Mornings,” Brendan Whitworth, the CEO of Anheuser-Busch North America Zone, acknowledged that the last few weeks had been “challenging” for the brand.
“The conversation surrounding Bud Light has moved away from beer,” Whitworth said, adding that he took responsibility for the controversy’s impact on the company’s employees, customers and distribution partners. “The conversation has become divisive, and Bud Light really doesn’t belong there.”
When asked if he would run the campaign with a transgender influencer again, Whitworth didn’t directly respond.
“There’s a big social conversation taking place right now, and big brands are right in the middle of it,” he said. “And it’s not just our industry or Bud Light. It’s happening in retail. It’s happening in fast food.
“And so for us, what we need to understand is — deeply understand and appreciate is — the consumer and what they want, what they care about and what they expect from big brands.”
With the summer sales season well underway — the four months between May and August make up as much as 40% of annual beer sales — the question swirling around Bud Light is whether the slump is temporary or the new normal.
“Here we are, about 10 weeks into it, and we’re still seeing double-digit declines in volumes nationally,” said Bump Williams, who runs the consulting firm that bears his name. “This is no longer an anomaly. This is a trend of concern.”
Indeed, most larger beer distributors or wholesalers — middlemen who buy brands from brewers like Anheuser-Busch and Molson Coors and then sell them to stores, restaurants and bars — believe the fallout will last more than six months, according to a survey released this month by the Wall Street investment bank Jefferies. One-third of distributors believe the impact on Bud Light will be permanent.
Wagner said Anheuser-Busch had made a mistake when its marketing broke what he called “bar rules.” That means “no politics, no religion.” He noted that Glenn Miller’s had never allowed local politicians to put up signs in or around the store so as not to alienate customers.
When asked how long he thought the sales declines would linger, Wagner shrugged. “I’ve seen longtime Bud Light customers trying other beers,” he said. “If they find something they like, they may not come back.”
Beer distributors, many of them independent or family-owned businesses, are acutely aware of the drop in Bud Light sales.
Steve Tatum, the general manager of family-owned Bama Budweiser in Montgomery, Alabama, paid for a local radio commercial to discuss the backlash to Bud Light. “We, too, at Bama Budweiser are upset about it and have made our feelings known to the top leadership at Anheuser-Busch,” Tatum said in the ad. He added that his company, an independent wholesaler, employed “around 100 people who live here, work here, and our children go to school here.”
Tatum did not respond to a request for comment.
Anheuser-Busch also seems to be trying to remind the public of the people behind the beer. On Wednesday, the company released an ad campaign, “We Make the Beer,” which focuses on the numerous steps involved in making beer, as well as the individuals behind the process. It has also hinted that it may bring back the popular Bud Knight character in advertising as part of its effort to move past the controversy.
The company has also been buying back or swapping out cases of Bud Light sitting in distributor warehouses when they reach their “best by” dates. In June, the company unveiled a multitiered plan to its distributors that included sales incentive payments and reimbursement for freight and fuel charges through the end of the year, according to Beer Business Daily.
For Glenn Miller’s, the repercussions from the Bud Light controversy have not had much of a business impact. Operating since 1986, the retailer sells 1,500 brands of beer in its 18,000-square-foot warehouse.
“So if a consumer decides against a Bud Light, which is now down 30 percent year to date, they are fine in finding something else to try,” Rodney Miller, the CEO of Glenn Miller’s, said in an email. (Miller founded the retailer with his father, Glenn.)
Wagner echoed those sentiments as he walked through the store’s aisles.
“It’s not that they stopped drinking beer,” he said of his customers. “They just stopped buying Bud Light.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Sales; Customers; Consulting firms; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales Customers Consulting firms Breweries

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

Identifier / keyword: Political Advertising; Fines (Penalties); Relocation Of Business; Cbs Corporation; Harrisburg (Pa); Jefferies Group Inc; Boycotts; Pennsylvania; Advertising And Marketing; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Molson Coors Brewing Company; Warehouses; Mulvaney, Dylan (1996 ); Miller Brewing Co; United States; Company Reports; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Susquehanna River; Alabama; Instagram Inc; Online Advertising; Shopping And Retail; Transgender; Polls And Public Opinion; Beer; Real Estate (Commercial); Family Business; North America; Water; Names, Organizational; Business; Creswell, Julie; Campaign Finance

Title: Cheaper Than Water? Retailers Try to U nload Bud Light.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-29T22:39:25Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831030939

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cheaper-than-water-retailers-try-unload-bud-light/docview/2831030939/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

With Supreme Court Decision, College Admissions Could Become More Subjective

Author: Anemona Hartocollis

Publication info: Anemona Hartocollis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-supreme-court-decision-college-admissions/docview/2830998183/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In the Supreme Court decision striking down racial and ethnic preferences in college admissions, Chief Justice John Roberts had harsh words for Harvard and the University of North Carolina, calling their admissions process “elusive," “opaque” and “imponderable.”
But the court’s ruling Thursday against the two universities could lead to an admissions system that is even more subjective and mysterious, as colleges try to follow the law but also admit a diverse class of students.
Officials at some universities predicted that there would be less emphasis on standardized metrics such as test scores and class rank, and more emphasis on personal qualities, told through recommendations and the application essay — the opposite of what many opponents of affirmative action had hoped for.
“Will it become more opaque? Yes, it will have to,” said Danielle Ren Holley, who is about to take over as president of Mount Holyoke College. “It’s a complex process, and this opinion will make it even more complex.”
In an interview, Edward Blum, the founder and president of Students for Fair Admissions, the plaintiff defended what he called “standard measurements” of academic qualifications, citing studies that showed test scores, grades and coursework helped determine which students would thrive at competitive schools.
He promised to enforce the decision, saying that Students for Fair Admissions and its counsel “have been closely monitoring potential changes in admissions procedures.”
“We remain vigilant and intend to initiate litigation should universities defiantly flout this clear ruling,” he wrote in a statement Thursday.
It would be nearly impossible, however, to eliminate any mention or suggestion of race in the admissions process — starting with applicants’ names. And in the decision, Roberts specifically kept the door open to consider racial or ethnic background in someone’s lived experience.
“Nothing in this opinion should be construed as prohibiting universities from considering an applicant’s discussion of how race affected his or her life, be it through discrimination, inspiration or otherwise,” he wrote.
Still, he warned that the personal essay could not play a stealth role in telegraphing race. “In other words, the student must be treated based on his or her experiences as an individual — not on the basis of race,” he wrote. “Many universities have for too long done just the opposite.”
Universities, including Harvard and North Carolina, said Thursday that they would comply with the ruling. But for outside skeptics, untangling a university’s intentions will be challenging. How can they know whether an admissions decision was based on an essay about personal grit — or the race of the applicant that it revealed?
“I think a very plausible outcome of this will be that schools will just cheat and say, ‘Let’s see who gets sued,’” said Richard Sander, a law professor at UCLA, who has been critical of affirmative action. “The chances of an individual school getting sued are low, and the cost of suing is really high.”
Some education officials have already discussed how to leverage the essay. In a recent presentation sponsored by the American Council on Education, Shannon Gundy, director of undergraduate admissions at the University of Maryland, said students should tailor their admissions essays to describe how race had affected their lives.
“Right now, students write about their soccer practice, they write about their grandmother dying,” she said, adding: “They don’t write about their trials and tribulations. They don’t write about the challenges that they’ve had to experience.”
Colleges could also ask for other more pointed essays, along the lines of the “diversity, equity and inclusion” statements that have become a familiar part of faculty hiring.
Holley imagined a question that would say something such as “One of the core values of Mount Holyoke College is diversity of all kinds. Please tell us why you value it, and what you think you bring to the Mount Holyoke community in terms of diversity.”
College officials are predicting that the decision will lead to an immediate drop in the number of Black and Hispanic students at selective universities, echoing the experiences of California and Michigan after those states adopted bans on affirmative action at their public universities years ago. Black students at the University of California, Berkeley, made up only 3.4% of last fall’s incoming freshman class, a quarter-century after the ban took effect.
But many of the 100 or so schools that practice affirmative action have been planning for this moment for months, if not years. And they have already made moves toward a “race-neutral” admissions era — one that tries to follow the letter of the law, while finding ways to keep the ethos of affirmative action.
Academic rigor is still important, but standardized tests? Not needed, and in some cases, not even read.
Schools are increasingly giving preferences to high-achieving students from low-income families or to “first-gen” applicants — the first in their families to go to college. They are pouring money into supporting students and offering more need-based financial aid.
Some selective colleges will also most likely play a much more direct role in nurturing prospective applicants.
The University of Virginia, for example, announced a plan this month to target 40 high schools in eight regions of the state that had little history of sending applicants. Duke University just promised full tuition grants to students from North Carolina and South Carolina with family incomes of $150,000 or less.
“The hardest part really is identifying and recruiting the students,” said Alison Byerly, president of Carleton College, which she said would expand its partnerships with community organizations.
The students are out there, said L. Song Richardson, president of Colorado College. “If we believe that talent is equally distributed” across demographic groups, she said, “then you would expect an unbiased recruitment process to result in a diverse class.”
Some educators believe that California’s experience after its 1996 ban on affirmative action shows that such programs can work. The UC system overall admitted its most diverse class ever in 2021. But recruiting was expensive; the price was in the hundreds of millions of dollars, and the top campus, Berkeley, is still struggling to catch up.
The risks are different for some public universities, including the University of North Carolina and the University of Virginia, which have already had run-ins with conservative politicians over “diversity, equity and inclusion” policies. They will very likely tread carefully when it comes to any murky race-neutral policies.
“One of the real movements you see from public universities is to be as apolitical as they possibly can, in red states and in blue states,” said Gordon Gee, the president of West Virginia University. “It’s kind of a Bud Light moment,” he said, referring to the beer company’s ill-fated hiring of a transgender spokeswoman that led to a boycott.
There could also be pressure to blow up the entire process, eliminating preferences for the children of alumni and donors, who tend to be white and wealthy.
So far, most schools have resisted those entreaties, saying that these preferences build community and assist in fundraising. But with cynicism around college admissions high and many believing the system is rigged for the well off and well connected, the court’s decision could force a reckoning.
“This is a big setback to racial justice, but it’s also an opportunity,” said Jerome Karabel, a UC Berkeley sociologist who has studied college admissions. “Now is the time to go back to the drawing boards and see what we can do. There are a million ideas out there.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Standardized Tests; Universities; Ethnicity; High Achievement; Low Income Groups; Affirmative Action; Personnel Selection; Tuition Grants; College Admission; Public Colleges; Presidents; Qualifications; Family Income; Racial Differences; Class Rank; Racial Factors; Admission Criteria; Court Litigation; Preferences; Community Relations

Subject: Students; College admissions; Achievement tests; Schools; College campuses; Supreme Court decisions; Presidents; Essays; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Race; Affirmative action

Location: New York; United States--US; Colorado; California; North Carolina

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: University of North Carolina; NAICS: 611310; Name: Colorado College; NAICS: 611310; Name: Mount Holyoke College; NAICS: 611310; Name: University of Maryland; NAICS: 611310; Name: University of Virginia; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: California; North Carolina; Los Angeles (Calif); Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; University Of North Carolina; Supreme Court (Us); Colleges And Universities; Appointments And Executive Changes; Harvard University; Carleton College; Minorities; Roberts, John G Jr; United States; Admissions Standards; Conservatism (Us Politics); Blum, Edward J; Income; University Of California, Los Angeles; Colorado College; Tests And Examinations; Race And Ethnicity; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); West Virginia; Hiring And Promotion; Mount Holyoke College; Decisions And Verdicts; Boycotts; Discrimination; Mid Atlantic States (Us); Affirmative Acti on; Michigan; University Of California; Gee, E Gordon; Black People; Hartocollis, Anemona; Law And Legislation; South Carolina; Saul, Stephanie; Berkeley (Calif); University Of Virginia; Duke University; Education (K 12); Polls And Public Opinion; University Of Maryland; Colorado; Virginia; Students For Fair Admissions; Campaign Finance; Maryland; American Council On Education

Title: With Supreme Court Decision, College Admissions Could Become More Subjective

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-29T23:22:16Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2830998183

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-supreme-court-decision-college-admissions/docview/2830998183/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 29, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Starbucks Will Offer 'Clearer' Guidelines on Store Decorations After Pride Clash: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starbucks-will-offer-clearer-guidelines-on-store/docview/2830026170/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Latest
Starbucks said on Monday that it would issue "clearer" guidelines on permissible store decorations after the union that represents thousands of its workers said management had prohibited some employees from putting up decorations for Pride Month.
Sara Trilling, the North America president for Starbucks, said in a memo to employees that the company's policy on visual displays had not changed but that more specific directions were coming. She also reiterated the company's support of the L.G.B.T.Q. community, saying, "No one can take away our legacy and our continued commitment to being a place where we all belong."
Starbucks responded after workers at more than 150 stores went on strike over the course of a week starting Friday to protest the company's decorations policy, its treatment of L.G.B.T.Q. workers and unfair labor practices generally.
Starbucks Workers United said on Monday that the strike would go on unless the company agreed to come to the bargaining table. "While we are glad Starbucks is finally reconsidering its position on pride decorations, Starbucks continues to ignore that they are legally required to bargain with union workers -- that's the power of a union," the union said in a statement.
About 12 stores have had to close each day since the strike began, a Starbucks spokesman said.
The company also filed two charges with the National Labor Relations Board, accusing the union of starting "a smear campaign" against it by misrepresenting the company's stances on L.G.B.T.Q. issues, including its benefits policy on gender-affirming care.
"The union's violations have ignited and inflamed workplace tension and division and provoked strikes and other business disruptions in Starbucks stores," the charges said.
The union said it was confident those charges would be dismissed, calling them a "public relations stunt."
Why It Matters
How companies approach Pride marketing has been subject to increasing scrutiny.
Bud Light, for one, faced backlash and dipping sales after a transgender influencer posted a promotional video for the American beer staple. Target, one of the country's largest retailers, said it had to relocate its Pride collection to prevent further threats to its employees.
Background: The fight over bargaining has grown heated.
The union has staged a series of strikes in the past year over what it says are aggressive anti-union tactics, such as retaliatory firings and delayed bargaining. In response to tensions with the union, Starbucks adopted a stricter dress code and décor policy to prevent workers from filling stores with union paraphernalia.
The union, which first filed petitions at three stores in August 2021, now represents about 8,000 of the company's workers in more than 300 stores.
Starbucks has faced dozens of National Labor Relations Board complaints, including one in April that accused the company of failing to bargain in good faith with workers at over 100 stores. In March, the coffee giant faced a scathing ruling from an administrative law judge who concluded that it illegally retaliated against unionized workers.
This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Coffeehouses; Strikes; Employees; Labor relations; Bargaining

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Employees Labor relations Bargaining

Company / organization: Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515; Name: National Labor Relations Board--NLRB; NAICS: 926150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/27/business/starbucks-union-pride-decorations.html

Title: Starbucks Will Offer 'Clearer' Guidelines on Store Decorations After Pride Clash:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 28, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2830026170

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starbucks-will-offer-clearer-guidelines-on-store/docview/2830026170/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Tried to Save a Friend. They Charged Him With Murder.

Author: Saslow, Eli

Publication info: Saslow, Eli. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-tried-save-friend-they-charged-him-with-murder/docview/2829298709/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
OKLAHOMA CITY — Josh Askins woke up in the crawl space of an abandoned house with nausea, chills and a shooting pain in his legs. It had been seven hours since he last smoked fentanyl, and already he could feel his withdrawal symptoms worsening by the minute. He rolled over in his sleeping bag and stared at the graffiti he had carved into the rotting floorboards. “Fentanyl is HELL,” he had written a few weeks earlier, but now he got up to start looking for more.
He walked across the street and saw his friend Chris Drake sitting on his grandmother’s front porch in downtown Oklahoma City, watching the sunrise with a Budweiser in one hand and a Bible in the other. Drake, 47, was reading the book for the sixth time, and he and Askins, 42, had bonded during the past weeks over their shared faith and also their shared failings. They had called a rehab facility that took Medicaid and made plans to detox there together with the help of medication, but their check-in date was still days away.
“I’m hurting really bad,” Askins said that morning in late April.
“Do you think you can get us a little something?” Drake asked him, according to court records.
“I can always get us something,” Askins said.
They got into Drake’s car at about 5:30 a.m. and went to search for the drug that had rewired their bodies, their minds and also so much else about the United States, where in 2023 fentanyl and other synthetic opioids lead to an average of 3,400 emergency room visits and 190 fatal overdoses each day.
What was once an obscure drug used to treat pain in end-stage cancer patients has become the leading cause of death for Americans younger than 50, and now the debate in state capitols and courtrooms across the country is over how to stop the crisis and whom to hold accountable for it.
Askins and Drake had sometimes played their own version of what they called “the addicts’ blame game” during their conversations on the porch. Together, they cursed the doctors who first prescribed them opioids to treat their injuries; and the drug companies that knowingly flooded the market with addictive products; and the cartels that manufactured and shipped millions of doses from Mexico into Oklahoma; and the street dealers who cut fentanyl into other drugs to get more people hooked; and the realities of life on America’s margins that kept them going back to those dealers to dull their pain, loneliness and disappointment again and again.
They drove to a Red Roof Inn and then to another extended-stay motel near the airport, where, according to police reports, Askins met with a dealer who had sold him fentanyl before. Drake took out his wallet and handed cash to Askins, and Askins paid $30 for three-tenths of a gram of white fentanyl powder that looked like a pinch of sugar in a small plastic bag. They parked at a car wash, and Drake put the white powder onto a piece of tinfoil, cooked it with a lighter and inhaled the fumes. He took two hits and Askins took one. Askins passed out for a few seconds. When he opened his eyes, he saw Drake slumped over and falling out of the passenger seat.
“Put on your seat belt so you stay upright,” Askins later remembered saying, but Drake didn’t answer.
“Hey, man, you all right?,” Askins asked. He shook his friend and tried to slap him back to consciousness, but his body was limp and his lips were turning blue.
Askins had overdosed a few times in the past year, and after one of those episodes, a paramedic warned him that without medical intervention, some overdoses could become fatal within five minutes or less. Askins pulled up to a gas station and banged on the door. “Help!” he shouted to the clerk. “My friend’s overdosing. Call 911.”
He had learned CPR while working as a medical assistant in a nursing home, so he pulled Drake out of the car, laid him on the concrete, and performed chest compressions until a firetruck and two police officers arrived. The paramedics continued to work on Drake while Askins waited in a police car. An officer read him his Miranda rights and asked about the events of that morning, none of which are under dispute in the police officer’s sworn affidavit from the scene. It was Drake who first suggested they buy drugs. It was Drake who had enough money for fentanyl. It was Drake who wanted to get high and willingly took the first hit.
But now the police officer told Askins that Drake had been pronounced dead, and the state of Oklahoma had reached its initial decision about who was to blame for the latest fatality in a national epidemic.
“Josh Askins, you’re under arrest for murder in the first degree,” the officer said.
Justin Mai, 31, checked his mailbox in the Oklahoma County Public Defender’s Office and saw a new case file, a manila folder with a red label that read “Murder One.” He had been working at the office for less than two years as a self-described “baby lawyer,” but already he had received five murder cases. Now, he flipped through Askins’ file and saw it was a fentanyl case that resembled a few of his others.
He had worked on a murder case against a 24-year-old who delivered fentanyl to a friend’s apartment and warned “everyone to be careful” before his friend licked the empty fentanyl bag and died of an overdose. He had defended a woman on murder charges after she left some of her fentanyl in a motel bathroom, where her 43-year-old companion used the drugs and then died.
All told, the public defender’s office had taken on six fentanyl murder cases in the past several months that were pending, and each one followed the same pattern: An addict sold, distributed or shared drugs that directly resulted in someone’s death, which technically met the definition for first-degree murder and the possibility of a lifetime prison sentence in Oklahoma and an increasing number of other states.
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott this month signed a law to reclassify fentanyl overdose deaths as “poisonings,” and Arkansas passed a “death by delivery” bill in April to charge some overdoses as murders in an effort to deter anyone from selling or even sharing fentanyl. Prosecutors in Alaska, California, Florida and at least a dozen other states were beginning to pursue new murder cases against any defendant who fit under the wide-ranging definition of a fentanyl dealer: a 17-year-old in Tennessee who, after graduation, shared fentanyl in the school parking lot with two of her friends, both of whom died; a husband in Indiana who bought fentanyl for his disabled wife, who overdosed while trying to numb her chronic pain from multiple sclerosis; a real estate agent in Florida who threw a party and called 911 when one of her guests overdosed; a high school senior in Missouri who gave a pill to a 16-year-old girl he met at church and warned her to “only do a quarter and then do the other quarter if you don’t feel it.”
A group of Republican senators, including one from Oklahoma, introduced a bill in February to charge fentanyl traffickers and dealers nationwide with felony murder in what Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., called a “simple, common-sense step to help turn the tide and protect our communities”
But, as Mai studied Askins’ file, he saw that the Oklahoma City police officers in that case hadn’t tracked the fatal dose of fentanyl back to a cartel manufacturer, or to a drug trafficker, or to a big-time dealer, or even to the street-level dealer known as “Suge” who had sold the fentanyl to Askins and Drake and whose name Askins had given to the police at the scene. Instead, they arrested and charged only one person, Askins, who had a criminal record of nonviolent drug offenses. His file showed that he had depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder from being raped by a neighbor when he was 9. His current address was listed as “transient,” and he had told officers that he supported his own addiction by reselling food he found in dumpsters and donating plasma twice each week.
Mai left private practice and took a 40% pay cut to become a public defender in his home state because he wanted to work cases like this. He had imagined himself fighting for the underdog, standing and delivering in front of a jury like his idol, Clarence Darrow, whose trial victories helped advance the civil rights movement. But the realities of Mai’s job meant managing 80 or 90 cases at once — small-time copper thefts, drug deals and domestic disputes that typically ended with his clients cutting deals and pleading guilty to lesser charges.
In his almost two years as a public defender, Mai had never once taken a case to trial.
“This is one we’re going to fight,” he told Askins when they met one morning at the county jail. Askins had a bond hearing coming up, and Mai planned to ask the judge to reduce his bond to $50,000 from $250,000 so that Askins could possibly get out of jail while his case continued through the courts.
“They should be treating this more like a misdemeanor drug case,” Mai told him. “It was a traumatic situation, and you acted how I wish I would act if I was in that position.”
“My mind was spinning,” Askins said. “I was just going off instinct.”
“And somehow you drove to the gas station,” Mai said. “You called for help. You gave CPR. You stayed at the scene and tried to save your friend.”
“Murder,” Askins said, still trying to make sense of it. He had met an inmate in jail who admitted to shooting a former roommate and dismembering parts of the body, and he had pleaded down to a sentence of manslaughter and 10 years in prison.
“If I’m found guilty, I could be looking at, what, life in prison? Life without parole?,” Askins asked.
“Technically, yes,” Mai said. “But who’s going to support that?”
Wanda Harris, 88, lit a cigarette and walked into the living room where she last saw her grandson on the morning he died, and where she had left his belongings untouched in the weeks since. His mattress was still on the floor outside her bedroom, where he sometimes slept so he could monitor her coughing fits at night. His half-empty beer bottles sat on the kitchen table, and his poster of the Ten Commandments hung on the wall. His friends from nearby abandoned houses were still coming over at all hours so they could use the bathroom, charge their cellphones and check on his grandmother.
“You doing all right today?” one of them asked.
Harris put out her cigarette in an empty cereal bowl and lit another. “I must still be in shock,” she said. “My brain just can’t make sense of what happened.”
She raised Drake and lived with him for most of his life, but the past two years had been the hardest. Drake’s mother died of cancer, and he sank into a clinical depression and quit his trucking job. He was lonely and bored, so he started befriending some of the men who lived in the abandoned houses around the corner. Harris saw them drinking beers together and smoking from pipes on her front porch, and she tried going outside to talk to them about the Bible. She watched a story on TV about the rise of fentanyl and begged Drake to get help. It seemed to her as if he were giving up, and then two police officers were knocking on her door to deliver the kind of news she had received before.
Her husband was shot and killed during a robbery when she was 26 years old, and for the next few years, she was so blinded by anger that she didn’t feel safe driving a car. Her eldest daughter died of cancer, and for a while, Harris blamed God and stopped going to church. Her son was hit in the head when a piece of equipment fell on the oil rig where he worked, and Harris tried to sue the oil company or the doctors who failed to save him during surgery. None of it went anywhere, and none of it helped to alleviate her grief, until eventually she resigned herself to the philosophy that she repeated to anyone who asked about the circumstances of Drake’s death. Unless Askins tricked her grandson into taking fentanyl or forced the drugs into his body, it didn’t seem to her like an intentional act of murder. “It is what it is,” she said. “No amount of finger-pointing is ever going to change it.”
The front door swung open again. It was another one of Drake’s friends. He plugged his phone into the wall and grabbed a bottle of water from the fridge.
“I’m sorry about Chris,” he said. “The whole situation makes me so angry.”
“I’ve tried that,” she said. “It doesn’t take the pain away.”
“What does?”
She lit a cigarette and thought for a moment. “Nothing,” she said.
A few days later, two prison guards led Askins into a courtroom for his bond hearing on the charge that he murdered Drake. Askins had red welts on his neck from the bedbugs that infested the county jail, and he scratched at his skin with his handcuffs as he scanned the gallery for his family. He spotted his mother, Shawn Armstrong, who had recently tried to hang herself in the backyard because of her heartbreak over the latest saga in her son’s 25 years of addiction; and his stepfather, who helped cut down the rope; and his 92-year-old grandmother, who had slept in the same bed as his mother for the past three weeks, rubbing his mother’s arm until she fell asleep.
“I’m so sorry for putting you through all this,” Askins told them. He wiped his eyes and turned back toward the front of the room as Mai, his lawyer, stood to address the judge.
“This is a very unusual first-degree murder case,” Mai said. “We have an unfortunate and sad accidental drug overdose, but we shouldn’t put that accident on my client. Even accusing him of murder causes real harm — stigmatizing drug addicts, punishing people who call 911. It’s clear that my client is not a drug dealer. He was a middleman.”
“A middleman is a drug dealer,” the prosecutor said. “They buy drugs from someone and then distribute them. This person’s drug problem has directly led to a death in our county.”
More recently, the question of who should be held accountable for fentanyl overdoses had led to debate within the offices of the prosecutor’s boss, Vicki Behenna, who was trying to navigate competing pressures as Oklahoma County’s newly elected district attorney.
Bereaved parents of overdose victims were erecting billboards around the state that showed pictures of their children alongside demands for harsher prison sentences for dealers. They hoped to scare people away from selling or sharing fentanyl to eventually reduce the flow of the drug into the United States. “Their lives matter. Why are drug dealers getting away with murder?” the billboards asked.
Behenna promised to continue Oklahoma County’s recent tradition of charging “traffickers and distributors with murder to hold them accountable to the full extent of the law.” But she was also a Democrat and the former head of the Oklahoma Innocence Project, and she had run for district attorney by speaking often about her belief in mercy and her hopes to reform parts of what she referred to as the “criminal legal system — not the criminal justice system.”
In June, she decided her office would change its policy and begin charging some drug users involved in fentanyl deaths with first-degree manslaughter instead of first-degree murder. In the coming weeks, she planned to have her staff begin a review of each active case, including the one against Askins. But for now, the judge looked at Askins’ file and saw only the original charge at the top of the page.
“Murder in the first degree is very serious,” she told him as she prepared to give her ruling. “At this point in time, I have to assume that the apparent likelihood of conviction is great. You have to be held accountable. I’m keeping the bond at $250,000.”
Askins nodded. “Thank you, Your Honor,” he said. “Can I please hug my family?”
“I’m sorry. I believe we have a rule against that,” the judge said. She gestured for the guards to take Askins back upstairs to his cell.
Askins called his mother from his prison cell a few hours later. She answered as she drove out of the city toward her small ranch.
“I can’t do this anymore,” he told her. His next preliminary hearing wasn’t until August. “I can’t be in here,” he said.
“You’re strong. You’re loved,” she said. “Remember how much you’re worth.”
“No, listen,” he said. “I’m telling you I’m done.”
She stared ahead out the window at the wind-swept prairie as a familiar anxiety came rushing back into her chest and throat. She spent the past two decades losing her son to addiction, imagining him in abandoned houses, writhing in withdrawal or smoking the fentanyl dose that would kill him. Her one solace with Askins in prison was the belief that he was in some ways protected from his disease. He was trapped. He was safe. “You just have to confront reality,” she said. “There’s no escaping. There’s no other choice.”
“Well, actually,” he said, and then he started to tell her a story from several weeks earlier, when he first arrived at the Oklahoma County Jail with the same shooting pains and nausea that drove him to buy fentanyl that morning with Drake. He had prepared himself for full-fledged withdrawal in jail, but then he saw his roommate smoking synthetic marijuana and heard about other prisoners making alcohol out of hand sanitizer. It turned out that the jail had treated more than 130 inmates for drug overdoses in the past year, and more than a dozen had died since 2021. Within a few days, Askins figured out that fentanyl was all over the facility, sold by every jailhouse gang in every variety and available for purchase by trade or by favor. He started snorting small doses at night so he could drown out his surroundings for long enough to sleep.
The nightmares kept coming. His doses got bigger. He took a little more to keep himself from thinking about Drake. He took more each time he heard his mother crying on the phone. More for the bedbugs. More for the loneliness and the shame and the anger and the fear, until one night he sat on his roommate’s bed and snorted two lines of white powder, numbing himself into oblivion with four times his typical dose. His vision went dark. When he woke awhile later, he was strapped into a restraining jacket and staring up at a team of nurses and medical assistants in the jail. They said it had taken four doses of naloxone, the opioid-reversal drug, to revive him. He immediately went into withdrawal and said he hadn’t used fentanyl since.
“I almost died,” he told his mother. “They had to bring me back.”
“Thank God,” she said.
“Yeah,” he said. “I guess.”
She looked out the window at the red dirt roads of Oklahoma, where fentanyl was everywhere, and she listened to her son breathe until her exhaustion and her anger formed into the same desire for accountability that had swept across the country and put her son in jail.
“How? Who did this to you?” she asked, and this time, Askins was sure of the answer.
“It was me,” he said. “Blame me.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Drug overdose; Murders & murder attempts; Fentanyl; Narcotics

Location: Florida; United States--US; Oklahoma

Identifier / keyword: Alcohol Abuse; Oklahoma City (Okla); California; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Courts And The Judiciary; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Memory; Senate; Smoking And Tobacco; Privacy; Oklahoma County Jail; Florida; Mental Health And Disorders; Death And Dying; Domestic Violence; Blood Donation; United States; Corporations; Philanthropy; False Arrests, Convictions And Imprisonments; Disasters And Emergencies; Arkansas; Police; Missouri; Marijuana; Saslow, Eli; Emergency Telephone Numbers; Drug Cartels; Decisions And Verdicts; Civil Rights Movement (1954 68); Texas; Depression (Mental); Darrow, Clarence; Grandparents; Senses And Sensation; Sex Crimes; Elderly; Veterans; Child Abandonment; Public Defenders And Court Appointed Lawyers (Criminal); Law And Legislation; Nine One One (911) (Emergency Phone Number); Innocence Project; Democratic Party; Deaths (Fataliti es); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Alaska; Bail; Polls And Public Opinion; States (Us); Red Roof Inns Inc; Robberies And Thefts; Labor And Jobs; Sentences (Criminal); Mexico; Indiana; Rubio, Marco; Television; Elections, District Attorneys; Bedbugs; Naloxone (Drug); Loneliness; Boredom; Tennessee; Cancer; Addiction (Psychology); Doctors; Drug Abuse And Traffic; First Aid; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Oklahoma; Fentanyl

Title: He Tried to Save a Friend. They Charged Him With Murder.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-25T20:10:22Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829298709

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-tried-save-friend-they-charged-him-with-murder/docview/2829298709/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Overdose, CPR and Then, a Murder Charge: [Correction]

Author: Saslow, Eli; Schaff, Erin

Publication info: Saslow, Eli; Schaff, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/overdose-cpr-then-murder-charge/docview/2829133920/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Josh Askins woke up in the crawl space of an abandoned house with nausea, chills and a shooting pain in his legs. It had been seven hours since he last smoked fentanyl, and already he could feel his withdrawal symptoms worsening by the minute. He rolled over in his sleeping bag and stared at the graffiti he'd carved into the rotting floorboards. "Fentanyl is HELL," he had written a few weeks earlier, but now he got up to start looking for more.
He walked across the street and saw his friend Chris Drake sitting on his grandmother's front porch in downtown Oklahoma City, watching the sunrise with a Budweiser in one hand and a Bible in the other. Drake, 47, was reading the book for the sixth time, and he and Askins, 42, had bonded during the last weeks over their shared faith and also their shared failings. They had called a rehab facility that took Medicaid and made plans to detox there together with the help of medication, but their check-in date was still days away.
"I'm hurting really bad," Askins said that morning in late April.
"Do you think you can get us a little something?" Drake asked him, according to court records.
"I can always get us something," Askins said.
They got into Drake's car at about 5:30 a.m. and went to search for the drug that had rewired their bodies, their minds and also so much else about the United States, where in 2023 fentanyl and other synthetic opioids lead to an average of 3,400 emergency room visits and 190 fatal overdoses each day. What was once an obscure drug used to treat pain in end-stage cancer patients has become the leading cause of death for Americans under 50, and now the debate in state capitols and courtrooms all across the country is over how to stop the crisis and whom to hold accountable for it.
Askins and Drake had sometimes played their own version of what they called "the addicts' blame game" during their conversations on the porch. Together, they cursed the doctors who first prescribed them opioids to treat their injuries; and the drug companies that knowingly flooded the market with addictive products; and the cartels that manufactured and shipped millions of doses from Mexico into Oklahoma; and the street dealers who cut fentanyl into other drugs to get more people hooked; and the realities of life on America's margins that kept them going back to those dealers to dull their pain, loneliness and disappointment again and again.
They drove to a Red Roof Inn and then to another extended-stay motel near the airport, where, according to police reports, Askins met with a dealer who'd sold him fentanyl before. Drake took out his wallet and handed cash to Askins, and Askins paid $ 30 for three-tenths of a gram of white fentanyl powder that looked like a pinch of sugar in a small plastic bag. They parked at a carwash, and Drake put the white powder onto a piece of tinfoil, cooked it with a lighter and inhaled the fumes. He took two hits and Askins took one. Askins passed out for a few seconds. When he opened his eyes, he saw Drake slumped over and falling out of the passenger seat.
"Put on your seatbelt so you stay upright," Askins later remembered saying, but Drake didn't answer.
"Hey man, you all right?" Askins asked. He shook his friend and tried to slap him back to consciousness, but his body was limp and his lips were turning blue.
Askins himself had overdosed a few times in the past year, and after one of those episodes a paramedic warned him that without medical intervention, some overdoses could become fatal within five minutes or less. Askins pulled up to a gas station and banged on the door. "Help!" he shouted to the clerk. "My friend's overdosing. Call 911."
He'd learned CPR while working as a medical assistant in a nursing home, so he pulled Drake out of the car, laid him on the concrete, and performed chest compressions until a firetruck and two police officers arrived. The paramedics continued to work on Drake while Askins waited in a police car. An officer read him his Miranda rights and asked about the events of that morning, none of which are under dispute in the police officer's sworn affidavit from the scene. It was Drake who first suggested they buy drugs. It was Drake who had enough money for fentanyl. It was Drake who wanted to get high and willingly took the first hit.
But now the police officer told Askins that Drake had been pronounced dead, and the state of Oklahoma had reached its initial decision about who was to blame for the latest fatality in a national epidemic.
"Josh Askins, you're under arrest for murder in the first degree," the officer said.
Justin Mai, 31, checked his mailbox in the Oklahoma County Public Defender's Office and saw a new case file, a manila folder with a red label that read "Murder One." He had been working at the office for less than two years as a self-described "baby lawyer," but already he had received five murder cases. Now he flipped through Askins's file and saw it was a fentanyl case that resembled a few of his others. He had worked on a murder case against a 24-year-old who delivered fentanyl to a friend's apartment and warned "everyone to be careful" before his friend licked the empty fentanyl bag and died of an overdose. He'd defended a woman on murder charges after she left some of her fentanyl in a motel bathroom, where her 43-year-old companion used the drugs and then died.
All told, the public defender's office had taken on six fentanyl murder cases in the last several months that were pending, and each one followed the same pattern: An addict sold, distributed or shared drugs that directly resulted in someone's death, which technically met the definition for first-degree murder and the possibility of a lifetime prison sentence in Oklahoma and an increasing number of other states.
Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas signed a law this month to reclassify fentanyl overdose deaths as "poisonings," and Arkansas passed a "death by delivery" bill in April to charge some overdoses as murders in an effort to deter anyone from selling or even sharing fentanyl. Prosecutors in Alaska, California, Florida and at least a dozen other states were beginning to pursue new murder cases against any defendant who fit under the wide-ranging definition of a fentanyl dealer: a 17-year-old in Tennessee who, after graduation, shared fentanyl in the school parking lot with two of her friends, both of whom died; a husband in Indiana who bought fentanyl for his disabled wife, who overdosed while trying to numb her chronic pain from multiple sclerosis; a real estate agent in Florida who threw a party and called 911 when one of her guests overdosed; a high school senior in Missouri who gave one pill to a 16-year-old girl he met at church and warned her to "only do a quarter and then do the other quarter if you don't feel it."
A group of Republican senators, including one from Oklahoma, introduced a bill in February to charge fentanyl traffickers and dealers nationwide with felony murder in what Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, called a "simple, common-sense step to help turn the tide and protect our communities."
But, as Mai studied Askins's file, he saw that the Oklahoma City police officers in that case hadn't tracked the fatal dose of fentanyl back to a cartel manufacturer, or to a drug trafficker, or to a big-time dealer, or even to the street-level dealer known as "Suge" who had sold the fentanyl to Askins and Drake and whose name Askins had given to the police at the scene. Instead, they arrested and charged only one person, Askins, who had a criminal record of nonviolent drug offenses. His file showed that he had depression, anxiety and PTSD from being raped by a neighbor when he was 9. His current address was listed as "transient," and he'd told officers that he supported his own addiction by reselling food he found in dumpsters and donating plasma twice each week.
Mai left private practice and took a 40 percent pay cut to become a public defender in his home state because he wanted to work cases like this. He had imagined himself fighting for the underdog, standing and delivering in front of a jury like his idol, Clarence Darrow, whose trial victories helped advance the civil rights movement. But the realities of Mai's job meant managing 80 or 90 cases at once -- small-time copper thefts, drug deals and domestic disputes that typically ended with his clients cutting deals and pleading guilty to lesser charges. In his almost two years as a public defender, he had never once taken a case to trial.
"This is one we're going to fight," he told Askins when they met one morning at the county jail. Askins had a bond hearing coming up, and Mai planned to ask the judge to reduce his bond to $ 50,000 from $ 250,000 so that Askins could possibly get out of jail while his case continued through the courts.
"They should be treating this more like a misdemeanor drug case," Mai told him. "It was a traumatic situation, and you acted how I wish I would act if I was in that position."
"My mind was spinning," Askins said. "I was just going off instinct."
"And somehow you drove to the gas station," Mai said. "You called for help. You gave CPR. You stayed at the scene and tried to save your friend."
"Murder," Askins said, still trying to make sense of it. He had met an inmate in jail who admitted to shooting a former roommate and dismembering parts of the body, and he'd pleaded down to a sentence of manslaughter and 10 years in prison.
"If I'm found guilty, I could be looking at, what, life in prison? Life without parole?" Askins asked.
"Technically, yes," Mai said. "But who's going to support that?"
Wanda Harris, 88, lit a cigarette and walked into the living room where she last saw her grandson on the morning he died, and where she had left his belongings untouched in the weeks since. His mattress was still on the floor outside her bedroom, where he sometimes slept so he could monitor her coughing fits at night. His half-empty beer bottles sat on the kitchen table, and his poster of the Ten Commandments hung on the wall. His friends from nearby abandoned houses were still coming over at all hours so they could use the bathroom, charge their cellphones and check on his grandmother.
"You doing all right today?" one of them asked.
Harris put out her cigarette in an empty cereal bowl and lit another. "I must still be in shock," she said. "My brain just can't make sense of what happened."
She raised Drake and lived with him for most of his life, but the last two years had been the hardest. Drake's mother died of cancer, and he sank into a clinical depression and quit his trucking job. He was lonely and bored, so he started befriending some of the men who lived in the abandoned houses around the corner. Harris saw them drinking beers together and smoking from pipes on her front porch, and she tried going outside to talk to them about the Bible. She watched a story on TV about the rise of fentanyl and begged Drake to get help. It seemed to her as if he were giving up, and then two police officers were knocking on her door to deliver the kind of news she'd received before.
Her husband was shot and killed during a robbery when she was 26 years old, and for the next few years, she was so blinded by anger that she didn't feel safe driving a car. Her eldest daughter died of cancer, and for a while Harris blamed God and stopped going to church. Her son was hit in the head when a piece of equipment fell on the oil rig where he worked, and Harris tried to sue the oil company or the doctors who failed to save him during surgery. None of it went anywhere, and none of it helped to alleviate her grief, until eventually she resigned herself to the philosophy that she repeated to anyone who asked about the circumstances of Drake's death. Unless Askins tricked her grandson into taking fentanyl or forced the drugs into his body, it didn't seem to her like an intentional act of murder. "It is what it is," she said. "No amount of finger-pointing is ever going to change it."
The front door swung open again. It was another one of Drake's friends. He plugged his phone into the wall and grabbed a bottle of water from the fridge.
"I'm sorry about Chris," he said. "The whole situation makes me so angry."
"I've tried that," she said. "It doesn't take the pain away."
"What does?"
She lit a cigarette and thought for a moment. "Nothing," she said.
A few days later, two guards led Askins into a courtroom for his bond hearing on the charge that he murdered Chris Drake. Askins had red welts on his neck from the bedbugs that infested the county jail, and he scratched at his skin with his handcuffs as he scanned the gallery for his family. He spotted his mother, Shawn Armstrong, who had recently tried to hang herself in the backyard because of her heartbreak over the latest saga in her son's 25 years of addiction; and his stepfather, who helped cut down the rope; and his 92-year-old grandmother, who had slept in the same bed as his mother for the last three weeks, rubbing his mother's arm until she fell asleep.
"I'm so sorry for putting you through all this," Askins told them. He wiped his eyes and turned back toward the front of the room as Mai, his lawyer, stood to address the judge.
"This is a very unusual first-degree murder case," Mai said. "We have an unfortunate and sad accidental drug overdose, but we shouldn't put that accident on my client. Even accusing him of murder causes real harm -- stigmatizing drug addicts, punishing people who call 911. It's clear that my client is not a drug dealer. He was a middleman."
"A middleman is a drug dealer," the prosecutor said. "They buy drugs from someone and then distribute them. This person's drug problem has directly led to a death in our county."
More recently, the question of who should be held accountable for fentanyl overdoses had led to debate within the offices of the prosecutor's boss, Vicki Behenna, who was trying to navigate competing pressures as Oklahoma County's newly elected district attorney. Bereaved parents of overdose victims were erecting billboards around the state that showed pictures of their children alongside demands for harsher prison sentences for dealers. They hoped to scare people away from selling or sharing fentanyl to eventually reduce the flow of the drug into the United States. "Their lives matter. Why are drug dealers getting away with murder?" the billboards asked.
Behenna promised to continue Oklahoma County's recent tradition of charging "traffickers and distributors with murder to hold them accountable to the full extent of the law." But she was also a Democrat and the former head of the Oklahoma Innocence Project, and she'd run for district attorney by speaking often about her belief in mercy and her hopes to reform parts of what she referred to as the "criminal legal system -- not the criminal justice system."
In June, she decided her office would change its policy and begin charging some drug users involved in fentanyl deaths with first-degree manslaughter instead of first-degree murder. In the coming weeks, she planned to have her staff begin a review of each active case, including the one against Askins. But for now, the judge looked at Askins's file and saw only the original charge at the top of the page.
"Murder in the first degree is very serious," she told him as she prepared to give her ruling. "At this point in time, I have to assume that the apparent likelihood of conviction is great. You have to be held accountable. I'm keeping the bond at $ 250,000."
Askins nodded. "Thank you, Your Honor," he said. "Can I please hug my family?"
"I'm sorry. I believe we have a rule against that," the judge said. She gestured for the guards to take Askins back upstairs to his cell.
Askins called his mother from his jail cell a few hours later. She answered as she drove out of the city toward her small ranch.
"I can't do this anymore," he told her. His next preliminary hearing wasn't until August. "I can't be in here," he said.
"You're strong. You're loved," she said. "Remember how much you're worth."
"No, listen," he said. "I'm telling you I'm done."
She stared ahead out the window at the windswept prairie as a familiar anxiety came rushing back into her chest and throat. She spent the last two decades losing her son to addiction, imagining him in abandoned houses, writhing in withdrawal or smoking the fentanyl dose that would kill him. Her one solace with Askins in jail was the belief that he was in some ways protected from his disease. He was trapped. He was safe. "You just have to confront reality," she said. "There's no escaping. There's no other choice."
"Well, actually," he said, and then he started to tell her a story from several weeks earlier, when he first arrived at the Oklahoma County Jail with the same shooting pains and nausea that drove him to buy fentanyl that morning with Drake. He had prepared himself for full-fledged withdrawal in jail, but then he saw his roommate smoking synthetic marijuana and heard about other inmates making alcohol out of hand sanitizer. It turned out that the jail had treated more than 130 inmates for drug overdoses in the last year, and more than a dozen had died since 2021. Within a few days, Askins figured out that fentanyl was all over the facility, sold by every jailhouse gang in every variety and available for purchase by trade or by favor. He started snorting small doses at night so he could drown out his surroundings for long enough to sleep.
The nightmares kept coming. His doses got bigger. He took a little more to keep himself from thinking about Drake. He took more each time he heard his mother crying on the phone. More for the bedbugs. More for the loneliness and the shame and the anger and the fear, until one night he sat on his roommate's bed and snorted two lines of white powder, numbing himself into oblivion with four times his typical dose. His vision went dark. When he awoke a while later, he was strapped into a restraining jacket and staring up at a team of nurses and medical assistants in the jail. They said it had taken four doses of naloxone, the opioid-reversal drug, to revive him. He immediately went into withdrawal and said he hadn't used fentanyl since.
"I almost died," he told his mother. "They had to bring me back."
"Thank God," she said.
"Yeah," he said. "I guess."
She looked out the window at the red dirt roads of Oklahoma, where fentanyl was everywhere, and she listened to her son breathe until her exhaustion and her anger formed into the same desire for accountability that had swept across the country and put her son in jail.
"How? Who did this to you?" she asked, and this time, Askins was sure of the answer.
"It was me," he said. "Blame me."
Photograph Josh Askins, above, is facing a first-degree murder charge in Oklahoma after Chris Drake's death. (A1); A picture of Chris Drake held by Wanda Harris, his grandmother. In the last two years, Drake's mother died of cancer, and he sank into depression and quit his trucking job.; WANDA HARRIS, grandmother of Chris Drake, responding to a friend of Drake's who had asked how she was doing.; Harris with Drake as a child, above. Drake used to sit on a worn office chair on his grandmother's porch, below. He lived with her for most of his life before he died in April at 47. (A22); SHAWN ARMSTRONG, Josh Askins's mother, above right, encouraging him over the phone after his bond hearing. His 92-year-old grandmother, Ann Brown, above left, slept in the same bed as his mother for three weeks to help her sleep. (A22-A23); Clockwise from above left: The Oklahoma County jail where Josh Askins is being held; Justin Mai, his public defender, holding notes at Askins's bond hearing; Shawn Armstrong, his mother, at the hearing; and Mai speaking to Askins at the hearing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN SCHAFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) This article appeared in print on page A1, A22, A23.

Subject: Drug overdose; Murders & murder attempts; Trials; Fentanyl; Narcotics; Drug addiction

Location: United States--US; Oklahoma; Oklahoma City Oklahoma

Title: An Overdose, CPR and Then, a Murder Charge:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 25, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829133920

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/overdose-cpr-then-murder-charge/docview/2829133920/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Backlash, a Tennessee Pride Festival Has a Different Feel: [National Desk]

Author: Cochrane, Emily

Publication info: Cochrane, Emily. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-backlash-tennessee-pride-festival-has/docview/2829133916/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After right-wing activists portrayed a Pride event in Franklin, Tenn., as a threat to children, the small city unexpectedly found itself at the center of a backlash.
As dozens of cars snaked their way onto the grounds of a refurbished horse farm on a sweltering June afternoon in Franklin, Tenn., a few volunteers stood at the entrance, cheerfully welcoming visitors to the local Pride festival.
The greeting, the volunteers said, also gave them a chance to spot any person who didn't wave back or smile, someone who might harbor more malicious intentions.
There were bag searches and scans with a metal detector. Across the street, a man in a white nationalist fight club T-shirt carried a poster with a homophobic slur. A SWAT team waited on the outskirts of the celebration.
The layers of precaution underscored what had become an unexpectedly volatile situation not only in Franklin, a city 20 miles south of Nashville, but also across the country as right-wing activists have assailed established Pride celebrations and commemorations as a threat to children.
In Franklin, permission to hold the 2023 Pride event came only when the mayor, Ken Moore, chose to break a tie in favor of the festival. His vote capped a vitriolic debate over drag queens having performed in front of children the previous year, an issue that left the city's governing body deadlocked and exposed painful divisions in the community.
"On the edges, the far left and the far right are making a lot more noise than the people that are either right or left of center," Mr. Moore said in a recent interview. "And I think it's an opportunity for those in the right and left of center to organize and say, 'Hey, this is our community, too."'
In the decades since the first march commemorated the Stonewall Inn uprising in 1970, Pride events have flourished. But this year, as several conservative-led states have pushed through legislation targeting L.G.B.T.Q. rights and transition care for transgender minors, Pride Month is increasingly on shaky ground across the country.
Brands like Bud Light have faced boycotts over their support for L.G.B.T.Q. people, while Target reduced the prominence of its annual Pride collection in stores after employees were threatened.
City officials across the nation have rebuked proclamations recognizing Pride Month or allowing the rainbow Pride flag to be flown on municipal property. And a Kansas man was indicted on federal charges after he posted online threats against this weekend's Nashville Pride.
At the same time, some celebrations defiantly moved forward: Memphis Pride Fest booked its largest lineup yet of more than 50 drag performers, despite a Tennessee law targeting drag performances that has since been ruled unconstitutional.
In Franklin, Jed Coppenger, the lead pastor at Redemption City Church, said he saw many in his congregation wrestle with what they felt comfortable seeing in schools and in public, as conservatives opposed books or media that featured L.G.B.T.Q. people.
"We've all been in the ocean when it pulled you, and you don't realize until you look back at the beach," said Mr. Coppenger, who said he personally opposed the festival. "There are definitely a lot of currents at play, and there are some new ones."
Franklin, founded in 1799 and now home to nearly 90,000 people, and surrounding Williamson County have proudly anchored their identity in an idyllic blend of American history and affluent development. Agricultural and equine industries coexist with large corporate and nearby manufacturing hubs. The patriotic bunting, historic churches and manicured downtown are offset by landmarks commemorating some of the bloodiest conflicts of the Civil War and the removal of the Chickasaw from their tribal lands.
The city, which is about 80 percent white and 6 percent Black, has retained deep Christian and conservative roots, while working to navigate its fast-paced economic growth and the nation's shifts on diversity and civil rights. Several community leaders highlighted the decision to add a statue of a Black soldier who fought for Union troops to downtown in 2021, rather than remove a statue of a Confederate soldier that has long loomed over the public square.
The demographic changes and population shifts brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, some residents said, are significant driving forces behind the intense conflict over Pride. Franklin offered transplants a chance to leave more expensive parts of the country and work in the lush greenery of Tennessee. It attracted some liberals to more affordable homes within the orbit of the Democratic stronghold of Nashville, while also drawing in conservatives seeking to escape progressive mandates and policies.
(An analysis of Internal Revenue Service data, compiled by the head of Williamson Inc., the county's chamber of commerce, showed that between 2020 and 2021, more than 1,500 onetime Californians had moved there from Orange County and Los Angeles County alone.)
Eric Stuckey, the city administrator whose staff oversaw the permitting process, said that there is an inherent tension with people arriving with different expectations of what Franklin is and should be.
"I think what we have seen has been some of this idea of, do I want to protect it? " he said, referring to the city's character. "And what does protect it mean?"
The 10 members of the Pride festival's own board understood what it meant to grapple with change. Some had waited years to come out, while others had confronted discomfort from their peers and within themselves when their children said they were gay.
"My son came out and -- I'm embarrassed to say this -- that's when I really started deconstructing all the lessons of my childhood and realizing not only was that wrong, a bunch of other stuff was, too," said Ginny Bailey, 60, a board member who described her outspokenness and work with Pride as a way to pay forward the grace others had shown her. "It's been quite a journey."
Franklin held its first Pride in 2021, and before this year, organizers had never faced an issue getting a permit from the city. When they learned of complaints over last year's drag performances, its board agonized over how to respond. After several meetings, they reluctantly agreed to drop all drag from the entertainment lineup, though attendees could dress as they pleased.
But it did not satisfy their critics. Rumors swirled -- on social media and at least one water aerobics class -- about what sort of sex toys and debauchery a Pride festival could bring.
"People do not like change -- I don't like it either," said the Rev. Rusty McCown, an Episcopal priest in Franklin, where he has been open about his support for L.G.B.T.Q. rights and staffed the church's Pride booth. "When those values are being pushed, it's easy to strike out."
In a pair of town hall meetings in March and April, residents and representatives from conservative groups like Moms for Liberty, founded in early 2021 to protest pandemic-era restrictions in schools, demanded that city leaders deny the event's permit to force it to private property and for adults only. They referenced clips of the 2022 drag performances -- one showed a performer known as "The Blair Bitch," squatting in costume to accept a dollar bill from a child -- and warned of biblical and political consequences.
A man who described himself as a recently arrived "refugee" from Evanston, Ill., warned of what he found to be the ominous lessons of his former city's Pride celebrations -- eventually evolving into a series of events, along with the increased visibility of L.G.B.T.Q. people in schools, churches and other organizations.
Defenders of the festival pleaded for a single day to demonstrate acceptance and understanding, saying that the event had been grossly misconstrued. Nashville offered a far more risqué scene on an average Saturday night, they said, compared to their plans for a six-hour event.
The onslaught of emails, calls and threats rattled the city's leaders, who described sleepless nights and hours spent grappling with their faith, threats, demands from their constituents and the possible legal ramifications of wading into a cultural debate. (The position of alderman, a nonpartisan one, is also ostensibly a part-time job.)
One alderman, Matt Brown, at one point bluntly expressed a desire to quickly return to the familiar business of arguing over roads and city issues, rather than a drawn out and expensive fight over free speech.
The decision to allow the festival to go forward did little to quell anger among its detractors, who vowed to elect aldermen who would vote their way. But for Franklin Pride, it was a lifeline.
The controversy proved to be a draw to more supporters, with close to 7,000 people visiting the park by the end of the day, about 2,000 more than the previous year.
"It became very clear -- everybody get your flags out and block the calendars," said Ed Lewis, a tech executive who had recently moved to Tennessee with his wife, Kate, and their children from Chicago to be closer to family.
Despite ominous online chatter leading up to the event, protests were muted. Seven people were asked to leave and one person was arrested after refusing to leave, Mr. Stuckey said, a decision that under the city permit was left to the discretion of the organizers and what they characterized as being disruptive. The concerns about agitators even led to one man being asked to leave his well-worn Bible at the entrance. He agreed to the request and wandered the grounds, before retrieving his Bible and joining the protesters across the street.
And at a shady tent, a group of teenagers blared pop songs, looped together friendship bracelets and did one another's makeup, blending rainbow eye shadow and studding sequins along their foreheads. Seated in a circle, they talked about the harassment they faced in school, their frustration with laws aimed at restricting L.G.B.T.Q. rights and their fears that they would lose a lone day where it felt safe to openly be themselves.
"It's like this fight of constantly being visible, so I don't let my community down, but not being too visible that I annoy everybody," said Eli Givens, an 18-year-old high school graduate, adding that "the queer trans experience, especially in the South, is just constantly apologizing, like not wanting to be too much."
But on this Saturday, the teenagers snapped photos and talked about what it felt like to rest, without worrying about what someone else would say about them. And they talked about going to college and then maybe coming back to Tennessee, to prove this was still a place for them.
"It's like we've made the world's most time-consuming cake," said Lucie Pitt, a 19-year-old student at Loyola University in Chicago. "And we finally get to eat it."
Photograph Natonya Listach painting her daughter Lizzy's face at the Franklin Pride festival on June 3.; Downtown Franklin, a city 20 miles south of Nashville that is home to nearly 90,000 people.; The city is home to several historic churches, retaining its conservative and Christian roots.; Ginny Bailey, of the Pride festival board, with her son Benton, who came from Orlando to volunteer.; One man was arrested after refusing to leave, a decision left to the discretion of the organizers under the city's permit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STACY KRANITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Conservatism; Community; Pandemics; Drag (Performance); Festivals

Location: Tennessee; United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/24/us/politics/franklin-tennessee-pride.html

Title: After Backlash, a Tennessee Pride Festival Has a Different Feel:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 25, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829133916

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-backlash-tennessee-pride-festival-has/docview/2829133916/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Tried to Save a Friend. They Charged Him With Murder.

Author: Saslow, Eli

Publication info: Saslow, Eli. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-tried-save-friend-they-charged-him-with-murder/docview/2829100417/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
OKLAHOMA CITY — Josh Askins woke up in the crawl space of an abandoned house with nausea, chills and a shooting pain in his legs. It had been seven hours since he last smoked fentanyl, and already he could feel his withdrawal symptoms worsening by the minute. He rolled over in his sleeping bag and stared at the graffiti he had carved into the rotting floorboards. “Fentanyl is HELL,” he had written a few weeks earlier, but now he got up to start looking for more.
He walked across the street and saw his friend Chris Drake sitting on his grandmother’s front porch in downtown Oklahoma City, watching the sunrise with a Budweiser in one hand and a Bible in the other. Drake, 47, was reading the book for the sixth time, and he and Askins, 42, had bonded during the past weeks over their shared faith and also their shared failings. They had called a rehab facility that took Medicaid and made plans to detox there together with the help of medication.
“I’m hurting really bad,” Askins said that morning in April.
“Do you think you can get us a little something?” Drake asked him, according to court records.
“I can always get us something,” Askins said.
They got into Drake’s car at about 5:30 a.m. and went to search for the drug that had rewired their bodies, their minds and also so much else about the United States.
They drove to a Red Roof Inn and then to another extended-stay motel near the airport, where, according to police reports, Askins met with a dealer who had sold him fentanyl before. Drake took out his wallet and handed cash to Askins, and Askins paid $30 for three-tenths of a gram of white fentanyl powder that looked like a pinch of sugar in a small plastic bag. They parked at a car wash, and Drake put the white powder onto a piece of tinfoil, cooked it with a lighter and inhaled the fumes. He took two hits and Askins took one. Askins passed out for a few seconds. When he opened his eyes, he saw Drake slumped over and falling out of the passenger seat.
“Put on your seat belt so you stay upright,” Askins later remembered saying, but Drake didn’t answer.
“Hey, man, you all right?,” Askins asked. He shook his friend and tried to slap him back to consciousness, but his body was limp and his lips were turning blue.
Askins pulled up to a gas station and banged on the door. “Help!” he shouted to the clerk. “My friend’s overdosing. Call 911.”
He had learned CPR while working as a medical assistant in a nursing home, so he pulled Drake out of the car, laid him on the concrete, and performed chest compressions until a firetruck and two police officers arrived. The paramedics continued to work on Drake while Askins waited in a police car. An officer read him his Miranda rights and asked about the events of that morning. It was Drake who first suggested they buy drugs. It was Drake who had enough money for fentanyl. It was Drake who wanted to get high and willingly took the first hit.
But now the police officer told Askins that Drake had been pronounced dead, and the state of Oklahoma had reached its initial decision about who was to blame for the latest fatality in a national epidemic.
“Josh Askins, you’re under arrest for murder in the first degree,” the officer said.
Justin Mai, 31, checked his mailbox in the Oklahoma County Public Defender’s Office and saw a new case file, a manila folder with a red label that read “Murder One.” He had been working at the office for less than two years as a self-described “baby lawyer,” but already he had received five murder cases. Now, he flipped through Askins’ file and saw it was a fentanyl case that resembled a few of his others.
In his almost two years as a public defender, Mai had never once taken a case to trial.
“This is one we’re going to fight,” he told Askins when they met one morning at the county jail. Askins had a bond hearing coming up, and Mai planned to ask the judge to reduce his bond to $50,000 from $250,000 so that Askins could possibly get out of jail while his case continued through the courts.
“Murder,” Askins said, still trying to make sense of it.
“If I’m found guilty, I could be looking at, what, life in prison? Life without parole?,” Askins asked.
“Technically, yes,” Mai said. “But who’s going to support that?”
A few days later, two prison guards led Askins into a courtroom for his bond hearing on the charge that he murdered Drake. He spotted his mother, Shawn Armstrong, who had recently tried to hang herself in the backyard because of her heartbreak over the latest saga in her son’s 25 years of addiction; and his stepfather, who helped cut down the rope; and his 92-year-old grandmother, who had slept in the same bed as his mother for the past three weeks.
“I’m so sorry for putting you through all this,” Askins told them. He wiped his eyes and turned back toward the front of the room as Mai, his lawyer, stood to address the judge.
“This is a very unusual first-degree murder case,” Mai said. “We have an unfortunate and sad accidental drug overdose, but we shouldn’t put that accident on my client. Even accusing him of murder causes real harm — stigmatizing drug addicts, punishing people who call 911. It’s clear that my client is not a drug dealer. He was a middleman.”
“A middleman is a drug dealer,” the prosecutor said. “They buy drugs from someone and then distribute them. This person’s drug problem has directly led to a death in our county.”
More recently, the question of who should be held accountable for fentanyl overdoses had led to debate within the offices of the prosecutor’s boss, Vicki Behenna, who was trying to navigate competing pressures as Oklahoma County’s newly elected district attorney.
Behenna promised to continue Oklahoma County’s recent tradition of charging “traffickers and distributors with murder to hold them accountable to the full extent of the law.” But she was also a Democrat and the former head of the Oklahoma Innocence Project, and she had run for district attorney by speaking often about her belief in mercy and her hopes to reform parts of what she referred to as the “criminal legal system — not the criminal justice system.”
In June, she decided her office would change its policy and begin charging some drug users involved in fentanyl deaths with first-degree manslaughter instead of first-degree murder. In the coming weeks, she planned to have her staff begin a review of each active case. But for now, the judge looked at Askins’ file and saw only the original charge at the top of the page.
“Murder in the first degree is very serious,” she told him. “At this point in time, I have to assume that the apparent likelihood of conviction is great. You have to be held accountable. I’m keeping the bond at $250,000.”
Askins nodded. “Thank you, Your Honor,” he said. “Can I please hug my family?”
“I’m sorry. I believe we have a rule against that,” she said.
Askins called his mother from his prison cell a few hours later. She answered as she drove out of the city toward her small ranch.
“I can’t do this anymore,” he told her. His next preliminary hearing wasn’t until August. “I can’t be in here,” he said.
“You’re strong. You’re loved,” she said. “Remember how much you’re worth.”
“No, listen,” he said. “I’m telling you I’m done.”
She stared ahead out the window at the wind-swept prairie as a familiar anxiety came rushing back into her chest and throat. She spent the past two decades losing her son to addiction. Her one solace with Askins in prison was the belief that he was in some ways protected from his disease. He was trapped. He was safe. “You just have to confront reality,” she said. “There’s no escaping. There’s no other choice.”
“Well, actually,” he said, and then he started to tell her a story from several weeks earlier, when he first arrived at the Oklahoma County Jail with the same shooting pains and nausea that drove him to buy fentanyl that morning with Drake. He had prepared himself for full-fledged withdrawal in jail, but then he saw his roommate smoking synthetic marijuana and heard about other prisoners making alcohol out of hand sanitizer. It turned out that the jail had treated more than 130 inmates for drug overdoses in the past year, and more than a dozen had died since 2021. Within a few days, Askins figured out that fentanyl was all over the facility. He started snorting small doses at night so he could drown out his surroundings for long enough to sleep.
The nightmares kept coming. His doses got bigger. He took a little more to keep himself from thinking about Drake. He took more each time he heard his mother crying on the phone. More for the bedbugs. More for the loneliness and the shame and the anger and the fear, until one night he sat on his roommate’s bed and snorted two lines of white powder, numbing himself into oblivion with four times his typical dose. His vision went dark. When he woke awhile later, he was strapped into a restraining jacket and staring up at a team of nurses and medical assistants in the jail. They said it had taken four doses of naloxone, the opioid-reversal drug, to revive him. He immediately went into withdrawal and said he hadn’t used fentanyl since.
“I almost died,” he told his mother. “They had to bring me back.”
“Thank God,” she said.
“Yeah,” he said. “I guess.”
She looked out the window at the red dirt roads of Oklahoma, and she listened to her son breathe until her exhaustion and her anger formed into the same desire for accountability that had swept across the country and put her son in jail.
“How? Who did this to you?” she asked, and this time, Askins was sure of the answer.
“It was me,” he said. “Blame me.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Drug overdose; Drug withdrawal; Court hearings & proceedings; Drug addiction; Shootings; Fentanyl

Location: United States--US; Oklahoma

Identifier / keyword: Oklahoma County Jail; United States; Oklahoma City (Okla); False Arrests, Convictions And Imprisonments; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Health Insurance And Managed Care; Emergency Telephone Numbers; Bail; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Red Roof Inns Inc; Elections, District Attorneys; Naloxone (Drug); Fentanyl; Police; Marijuana; Saslow, Eli; Senses And Sensation; Elderly; Nine One One (911) (Emergency Phone Number); Innocence Project; Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; Deaths (Fatalities); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Addiction (Psychology); Drug Abuse And Traffic; First Aid; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides

Title: He Tried to Save a Friend. They Charged Him With Murder.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-24T20:18:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829100417

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-tried-save-friend-they-charged-him-with-murder/docview/2829100417/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This City Had Quietly Celebrated Pride Before. In 2023, That Was Not an Option.

Author: Cochrane, Emily

Publication info: Cochrane, Emily. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-city-had-quietly-celebrated-pride-before/docview/2829100414/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
FRANKLIN, Tenn. — As dozens of cars snaked their way onto the grounds of a refurbished horse farm on a sweltering June afternoon in Franklin, a few volunteers stood at the entrance, cheerfully welcoming visitors to the local Pride festival.
The greeting, volunteers said, also gave them a chance to spot any person who didn’t wave back or smile, someone who might harbor more malicious intentions.
There were bag searches and scans with a metal detector. Across the street, a man in a white nationalist fight club T-shirt carried a poster with a homophobic slur. A SWAT team waited on the outskirts of the celebration.
The layers of precaution underscored what had become an unexpectedly volatile situation not only in Franklin, a city 20 miles south of Nashville, but also across the country as right-wing activists have assailed established Pride celebrations and commemorations as a threat to children.
In Franklin, permission to hold the 2023 Pride event came only when Mayor Ken Moore chose to break a tie in favor of the festival. His vote capped a vitriolic debate over drag queens having performed in front of children the previous year, an issue that left the city’s governing body deadlocked and exposed painful divisions in the community.
“On the edges, the far left and the far right are making a lot more noise than the people that are either right or left of center,” Moore said in a recent interview. “And I think it’s an opportunity for those in the right and left of center to organize and say, ‘Hey, this is our community, too.’”
In the decades since the first march commemorated the Stonewall Inn uprising in 1970, Pride events have flourished. But this year, as several conservative-led states have pushed through legislation targeting LGBTQ rights and transition care for transgender minors, Pride Month is increasingly on shaky ground nationwide.
Brands such as Bud Light have faced boycotts over their support for LGBTQ people, while Target reduced the prominence of its annual Pride collection in stores after employees were threatened.
City officials nationwide have rebuked proclamations recognizing Pride Month or allowing the rainbow Pride flag to be flown on municipal property. And a Kansas man was indicted on federal charges after he posted online threats against this weekend’s Nashville Pride.
At the same time, some celebrations defiantly moved forward: Memphis Pride Fest booked its largest lineup yet of more than 50 drag performers, despite a Tennessee law targeting drag performances that has since been ruled unconstitutional.
In Franklin, Jed Coppenger, lead pastor at Redemption City Church, said he saw many in his congregation wrestle with what they felt comfortable seeing in schools and in public, as conservatives opposed books or media that featured LGBTQ people.
“We’ve all been in the ocean when it pulled you, and you don’t realize until you look back at the beach,” said Coppenger, who said he personally opposed the festival. “There are definitely a lot of currents at play, and there are some new ones.”
Franklin, founded in 1799 and now home to nearly 90,000 people, and surrounding Williamson County have proudly anchored their identity in an idyllic blend of American history and affluent development. Agricultural and equine industries coexist with large corporate and nearby manufacturing hubs. The patriotic bunting, historic churches and manicured downtown are offset by landmarks commemorating some of the bloodiest conflicts of the Civil War and the removal of the Chickasaw from their tribal lands.
The city, which is about 80% white and 6% Black, has retained deep Christian and conservative roots, while working to navigate its fast-paced economic growth and the nation’s shifts on diversity and civil rights. Several community leaders highlighted the decision to add a statue of a Black soldier who fought for Union troops to downtown in 2021, rather than remove a statue of a Confederate soldier that has long loomed over the public square.
The demographic changes and population shifts brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, some residents said, are significant driving forces behind the intense conflict over Pride. Franklin offered transplants a chance to leave more expensive parts of the country and work in the lush greenery of Tennessee. It attracted some liberals to more affordable homes within the orbit of the Democratic stronghold of Nashville, while also drawing in conservatives seeking to escape progressive mandates and policies.
Eric Stuckey, the city administrator whose staff oversaw the permitting process, said there is an inherent tension with people arriving with different expectations of what Franklin is and should be.
“I think what we have seen has been some of this idea of, do I want to protect it?” he said, referring to the city’s character. “And what does protect it mean?”
The 10 members of the Pride festival’s board understood what it meant to grapple with change. Some had waited years to come out, while others had confronted discomfort from their peers and within themselves when their children said they were gay.
“My son came out and — I’m embarrassed to say this — that’s when I really started deconstructing all the lessons of my childhood and realizing not only was that wrong, a bunch of other stuff was, too,” said Ginny Bailey, 60, a board member who described her outspokenness and work with Pride as a way to pay forward the grace others had shown her. “It’s been quite a journey.”
Franklin held its first Pride in 2021, and before this year, organizers had never faced an issue getting a permit from the city. When they learned of complaints over last year’s drag performances, its board agonized over how to respond. After several meetings, they reluctantly agreed to drop all drag from the entertainment lineup, though attendees could dress as they pleased.
But it did not satisfy their critics. Rumors swirled — on social media and at least one water aerobics class — about what sort of sex toys and debauchery a Pride festival could bring.
“People do not like change — I don’t like it either,” said the Rev. Rusty McCown, an Episcopal priest in Franklin, where he has been open about his support for LGBTQ rights and staffed the church’s Pride booth. “When those values are being pushed, it’s easy to strike out.”
In a pair of town hall meetings in March and April, residents and representatives from conservative groups such as Moms for Liberty, founded in early 2021 to protest pandemic-era restrictions in schools, demanded that city leaders deny the event’s permit to force it to private property and for adults only. They referenced clips of the 2022 drag performances — one showed a performer known as “The Blair Bitch,” squatting in costume to accept a dollar bill from a child — and warned of biblical and political consequences.
A man who described himself as a recently arrived “refugee” from Evanston, Illinois, warned of what he found to be the ominous lessons of his former city’s Pride celebrations — eventually evolving into a series of events, along with the increased visibility of LGBTQ people in schools, churches and other organizations.
Defenders of the festival pleaded for a single day to demonstrate acceptance and understanding, saying that the event had been grossly misconstrued. Nashville offered a far more risqué scene on an average Saturday night, they said, compared with their plans for a six-hour event.
The onslaught of emails, calls and threats rattled the city’s leaders, who described sleepless nights and hours spent grappling with their faith, threats, demands from their constituents and the possible legal ramifications of wading into a cultural debate. (The position of alderman, a nonpartisan one, is also ostensibly a part-time job.)
One alderman, Matt Brown, at one point bluntly expressed a desire to quickly return to the familiar business of arguing over roads and city issues, rather than a drawn out and expensive fight over free speech.
The decision to allow the festival to go forward did little to quell anger among its detractors, who vowed to elect aldermen who would vote their way. But for Franklin Pride, it was a lifeline.
The controversy proved to be a draw to more supporters, with close to 7,000 people visiting the park by the end of the day, about 2,000 more than the previous year.
“It became very clear — everybody get your flags out and block the calendars,” said Ed Lewis, a tech executive who had recently moved to Tennessee with his wife, Kate, and their children from Chicago to be closer to family.
Despite ominous online chatter leading up to the event, protests were muted. Seven people were asked to leave and one person was arrested after refusing to leave, Stuckey said, a decision that under the city permit was left to the discretion of the organizers and what they characterized as being disruptive. The concerns about agitators even led to one man being asked to leave his well-worn Bible at the entrance. He agreed to the request and wandered the grounds, before retrieving his Bible and joining the protesters across the street.
And at a shady tent, a group of teenagers blared pop songs, looped together friendship bracelets and did one another’s makeup, blending rainbow eye shadow and studding sequins along their foreheads. Seated in a circle, they talked about the harassment they faced in school, their frustration with laws aimed at restricting LGBTQ rights and their fears that they would lose a lone day where it felt safe to openly be themselves.
“It’s like this fight of constantly being visible, so I don’t let my community down, but not being too visible that I annoy everybody,” said Eli Givens, an 18-year-old high school graduate, adding that “the queer trans experience, especially in the South, is just constantly apologizing, like not wanting to be too much.”
But on this Saturday, the teenagers snapped photos and talked about what it felt like to rest, without worrying about what someone else would say about them. And they talked about going to college and then maybe coming back to Tennessee, to prove this was still a place for them.
“It’s like we’ve made the world’s most time-consuming cake,” said Lucie Pitt, a 19-year-old student at Loyola University in Chicago. “And we finally get to eat it.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Conservatism; Community; LGBTQ rights; LGBTQ people; State laws; Pandemics; Drag (Performance); Festivals

Location: Tennessee; United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

Identifier / keyword: Civil War (Us) (1861 65); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Population; Threats And Threatening Messages; Pop And Rock Music; Confederate States Of America; Evanston (Ill); Tennessee; Urban Areas; Fringe Groups And Movements; United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Agriculture And Farming; Conservatism (Us Politics); Stonewall Inn (Manhattan, Ny, Bar); Two Thousand Twenty Three; California; Restoration And Renovation; Illinois; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Religion And Belief; Boycotts; Discrimination; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Lgbtq Pride Month (Us); Law And Legislation; Black People; Volunteers And Community Service; Theater; Kansas; Transgender; Education (K 12); Orlando (Fla); Drag (Performance); Target Corporation; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Historic Buildings And Sites; Nashville (Tenn); Labor And Jobs; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Sex; Internal Revenue Service; Memphis (Tenn); Chicago (Ill); Southern States (Us)

Title: This City Had Quietly Celebrated Pride Before. In 2023, That Was Not an Option.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-24T22:22:48Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829100414

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-city-had-quietly-celebrated-pride-before/docview/2829100414/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Murky Frontier of Rules For the Space Industry: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Livni, Ephrat; Kessler, Sarah

Publication info: Livni, Ephrat; Kessler, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/murky-frontier-rules-space-industry/docview/2827182015/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Estimated to be worth about $ 460 billion, space businesses sometimes operate in legal black holes.
Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson are racing to establish a presence in space. But what rights and obligations come with that?
It's not clear what the rules are, even as the $ 460 billion space industry is growing quickly.
Virgin Galactic, the space tourism company founded by Mr. Branson, announced on Thursday that it would launch its first commercial spaceflight this month, joining Mr. Bezos' Blue Origin, and Mr. Musk's SpaceX in sending ticketed passengers to space. But travel is just one emerging corner of the industry, which is mostly fueled by U.S. and international government contracts. The sector includes companies in the fields of satellites and communications, solar power, manufacturing, and even mining. One, Orbital Assembly, hopes to open a luxury extraterrestrial hotel by 2025.
Citigroup analysts project that space businesses will reach a trillion dollars in revenue by 2040.
All this activity raises legal questions.
In theory, space belongs to everyone. In 1967, as the United States and the Soviet Union were building up their nuclear arsenals, the United Nations signed a treaty that says no country can claim territory in space. "We didn't want to bring the Cold War into space," Michelle Hanlon, co-director of the air and space law program at the University of Mississippi, told DealBook.
Since then, a U.N. space committee has made four more treaties and five sets of principles covering areas like arms control and liability for damage caused by space objects. All are premised on the notion that space "should be devoted to enhancing the well-being of all countries and humankind, with an emphasis on promoting international cooperation."
That perspective is about to collide with reality, said Curt Blake, a space lawyer at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati and the former C.E.O. of a space start-up. "Humans have done such a bad job regulating anything of common good, like the oceans and air," he said. "Are we going to be better at caring for the moon?"
One upcoming test is a race between China and the United States to get to the poles of the moon to mine water, which could make it possible to produce fuel in space. There is little understanding of what will happen when they both get there.
"Will they live on separate sides or dot their bases?" Ms. Hanlon asked. "We don't know because we have these regulatory gaps."
Another potential conflict is brewing over 170 million pieces of debris like satellites abandoned in the Earth's orbit, known as "space trash," because their accumulation makes exploration more difficult and dangerous. Since nobody owns space, it isn't always clear whose responsibility it is to clean it up. In September, the Federal Communications Commission adopted rules ordering companies to take down nonfunctioning satellites within five years, down from 25 years.
Lawyers are wrestling with these sorts of issues at gatherings like The Hague Space Diplomacy Symposium this week at the Leiden University in the Netherlands, which focused on cooperation amid rising geopolitical tensions and competition.
The U.S. government has deliberately left some holes. In 2004, Congress imposed a moratorium on safety regulations for commercial space launches, essentially a free pass, or "learning period," that is set to expire in October. It has lasted so long because there hasn't been enough development to base new rules on. In April, a report from the RAND Corporation recommended against extending again, and the Federal Aviation Administration is planning more oversight.
Business leaders caution against creating so much regulation that it pushes innovation offshore while recognizing that we need rules. And futurists naturally have a long and expansive view. Many are concerned that we'll exploit resources in space before we're able to "access the infinity of the universe," as Ms. Hanlon put it.
"We just need to hold it together for 200 years," she said. -- Ephrat Livni
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
The Fed takes a breather. At Wednesday's meeting, the central bank kept interest rates unchanged for the first time in more than a year. But officials suggested that rates would rise more in 2023, as inflation remains "well above" the Federal Reserve's target.
JPMorgan settles. The bank secured a potential $ 290 million deal with the sex offender Jeffrey Epstein's victims, who claimed that the bank had overlooked red flags in his activity because it valued him as a wealthy client. JPMorgan Chase still faces a related lawsuit by the government of the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Bill Gates meets Xi Jinping in Beijing. The Microsoft co-founder is one of the first prominent U.S. business leaders to meet the Chinese leader since the start of the pandemic. Their talks preceded a visit by Antony J. Blinken, the secretary of state, to China.
Bud Slight. Modelo Especial replaced Bud Light as the best-selling in America, after a boycott by consumers over a promotional post by a transgender influencer. The controversy has spotlighted the challenges that brands and retailers like Adidas and Target have faced in marketing to L.G.B.T.Q. consumers in a polarized political environment.
Michael Jordan nets a big profit. The investors Gabe Plotkin and Rick Schnall reportedly bought his majority stake in the National Basketball Association's Charlotte Hornets for $ 3 billion. Jordan acquired the team in 2010 for $ 275 million and will retain a minority stake.
Companies may not know when employees use A.I.
Companies including Accenture, PwC and Morgan Stanley announced big initiatives to get their employees to use generative A.I. tools like chatbots and image generators. But even at companies that haven't introduced these tools, many workers are using them -- and they may not be mentioning it.
In a survey of 4,491 white-collar workers by the consulting firm Oliver Wyman, 39 percent of those who use generative A.I. tools said they had done so without their employer's knowledge in the last three months.
There are risks if workers use these tools without training, including that they will share private company data or not understand that A.I. tools can produce inaccurate work. (See: the lawyer who ended up citing made-up court cases in a legal brief.)
But there may also be potential. In a report this week, McKinsey estimated that generative A.I. could add $ 2.6 trillion to $ 4.4 trillion to the global economy. The research looked at 63 use cases for generative A.I. across 850 occupations, finding that 60 to 70 percent of all work tasks could be automated by currently available technology.
"Employee interest, especially amongst the younger generations, is likely ahead of many of their managers," said Ana Kreacic, the chief operating officer of Oliver Wyman's think tank, in an email to DealBook. "Some organizations are leading and some are catching up, but it takes time for best practices to evolve across different industries."
9.7 percent
-- How much consumer prices in Sweden rose last month. One potential contributing factor? Beyoncé kicked off her world tour in Stockholm, and fans who flocked to the city to see the singer pushed up the prices for hotel rooms and restaurant meals, according to Sweden's statistics agency.
On our radar: 'Winner Sells All'
Walmart and Amazon's battle to dominate retail has been an epic corporate fight. In "Winner Sells All," which publishes on Tuesday, the business journalist Jason Del Rey chronicles the clash, with hundreds of billions of dollars at stake, in illustrative detail. Mr. Del Rey has covered e-commerce for more than 10 years, and many of Amazon's and Walmart's top executives agreed to interviews for the book, as did their workers. Kirkus Reviews called it "an eye-opening look at a battle of corporate titans."
Thanks for reading! We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Consumers; Interest rates; Arms control & disarmament; Commercial space ventures; Cooperation; Employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Interest rates Employees

Location: Sweden; China; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/17/business/dealbook/space-industry-laws.html

Title: Murky Frontier of Rules For the Space Industry:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 19, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country ofpublication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2827182015

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/murky-frontier-rules-space-industry/docview/2827182015/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Some Starbucks Are Banning Pride Décor, Union Says: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Tumin, Remy; Holpuch, Amanda

Publication info: Tumin, Remy; Holpuch, Amanda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-starbucks-are-banning-pride-décor-union-says/docview/2826049397/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The union Starbucks Workers United says the chain, after prominently celebrating Pride for years, has banned the displays. The company insists that's not true and said the examples are an "outlier."
A union representing hundreds of Starbucks stores said this week that workers in 21 states were told by their managers not to decorate for Pride Month, the annual L.G.B.T.Q. celebration, a claim that the company said represented "outlier" decisions by local leaders that did not reflect corporate policy.
But even in New York City neighborhoods that are almost synonymous with Pride, the traditional rainbow displays were more muted -- if visible at all -- than in years past. In Manhattan, no Pride decorations could be seen at several Starbucks stores in Chelsea and Greenwich Village, including the one just a block from the Stonewall Inn, a landmark of gay culture and history. One flag was spotted uptown at a store in Hell's Kitchen.
Starbucks workers in Wisconsin, Ohio and Virginia, among other states, said in interviews arranged through their union that store and district managers have been asked to either take down existing decorations, such as a flag or streamers, or told that they would not be allowed to decorate stores for Pride Month, unlike in previous years.
The reasons given have varied, the workers said.
One worker was told there were not enough paid hours available for the work. Another was told that décor choices needed to be standardized across regions. One partner, as Starbucks refers to employees, was told by a manager that hanging a rainbow flag might make customers uncomfortable. Others said they were told that if they hung a Pride flag the store could be asked to show equal representation for others, including the Proud Boys, the far-right hate group. Some managers also cited safety concerns.
Starbucks Workers United, which is working to unionize stores across the United States, criticized the company for failing to show support for L.G.B.T.Q. workers at a time when conservative politicians are promoting legislation that targets the community. The union and its members accused the company of making employees feel uncomfortable in their workplace as an intimidation tactic during contract negotiations.
After the union criticized Starbucks on Tuesday, the company sent a note to North American corporate and retail leaders that said there was no ban on Pride decorations in stores. But several managers interviewed by The New York Times said they had not received that communication.
"When I see a large pride flag in the window I know it's a welcoming place," said Ian Miller, who has worked at a Starbucks in Olney, Md., for four years and is transgender. "I do not understand why all of the sudden they're raising hell about it in the middle of June."
In past years, Mr. Miller has been encouraged to decorate his store for Pride. This year his manager suggested that hanging a Pride flag could mean the store would have to display a Confederate flag if asked.
Andrew Trull, a Starbucks spokesman, said in an interview on Wednesday that the examples described by Starbucks Workers United were the "outlier versus the norm."
Mr. Trull said that local store leaders have the discretion to decide how a store looks, in keeping with company policies, including a safety rule that prohibits hanging things in windows in a way that would block workers behind the counter from being able to see outside. The stores also sometimes face restrictions in their leases, he said.
Mr. Trull said Starbucks had not received any credible threats against its L.G.B.T.Q. staff members or stores.
In the past, Starbucks has provided some Pride pins and flair for employees to wear, Mr. Trull said, but it has not been consistent. No pins were distributed this year. Pride-themed cups and tumblers are available at stores where merchandise is sold, he said.
"You could still walk into a vast majority of Starbucks stores across the country and find our partners celebrating the L.G.B.T.Q. community in a variety of ways," Mr. Trull said. "Putting up Pride flags in our stores is just one of many ways that Starbucks supports and stands behind the L.G.B.T.Q. community."
Mr. Trull, who is gay, said that he had felt "seen and valued" as an employee.
"I think boiling down the L.G.B.T.Q. support that Starbucks offers to the declarations that are placed in its store is a little reductive," he added.
But a very different experience seemed to be playing out for some Starbucks workers across the country.
Ray Schmidt, 32, said that about six to eight weeks ago, his store manager in Strongsville, Ohio, told workers to take down a Pride flag that had been hanging on a wall for at least a year because "it was not inclusive for everyone."
Mr. Schmidt, a shift supervisor who is helping to organize a union at the store, said that since then "you wouldn't even know that it's Pride month going into Starbucks, which is wild for our store, where probably 80 to 90 percent of the people that work there are L.G.B.T.Q."
The scrutiny of Pride decorations at Starbucks stores follows similar controversies at some of the country's most prominent companies. The beer brand Bud Light has for months been dealing with the fallout of a social media promotion involving a transgender influencer. One of the country's largest retailers, Target, said it moved its Pride displays in some stores after workers received threats.
The backlash to inclusive marketing comes as a flood of legislation is attempting to roll back L.G.B.T.Q. rights.
Starbucks emphasized that it has supported the community for decades with workplace policies, donations and Supreme Court briefs that backed same-sex marriage and civil rights for L.G.B.T.Q. workers. In 2022, Starbucks received a top rating in the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index, which assesses L.G.B.T.Q. equity at companies based on their benefits, policies and culture.
The company's inclusive policy is one of the reasons many people seek work there.
"This is the first place of work where I am surrounded by the queer community," said Meghin Martin, who has worked for Starbucks for nearly two years and was told they could not hang a Pride flag at a cafe in Richmond, Va.
Workers displayed a Pride flag, rainbow-colored paper chains and rainbow lights inside a Starbucks in Madison, Wis., for about a month. But on Sunday, a district manager visited "to make sure everything was up to standard," said Matt Cartwright, a shift supervisor at the store.
The flag and other décor were removed.
"How is it fair to our trans or queer partners to say, 'Your flag -- a way of showing that we respect and acknowledge you -- might be offensive to someone who wants to buy coffee'?" Mr. Cartwright said.
Jordyn Holman contributed reporting.
Jordyn Holman contributed reporting.
Photograph A Pride parade in Los Angeles last year. Some workers at stores in 21 states say they were told by managers that there could be no Pride décor this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Workers; Coffeehouses; Contract negotiations; Employees; Transgender persons; Flags

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Contract negotiations Employees

Location: United States--US; Ohio

Company / organization: Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/15/business/starbucks-pride-decorations.html

Title: Some Starbucks Are Banning Pride Décor, Union Says:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826049397

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-starbucks-are-banning-pride-décor-union-says/docview/2826049397/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bud Light Loses Perch As Top Seller After Boycott: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bud-light-loses-perch-as-top-seller-after-boycott/docview/2825675326/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Bud Light lost its share of retail beer sales in recent weeks following a boycott by consumers over a promotional post by a transgender influencer.
Bud Light has been dethroned as the nation's top-selling beer in recent weeks, a data analytics company said, a sign that the backlash the brewer received from conservatives over its relationship with a transgender influencer may be taking a toll.
Taking its place in the No. 1 spot is Modelo Especial, a Mexican beer made by Constellation Brands, making up 8.4 percent of U.S. retail beer sales in the four weeks that ended June 3, according to Nielsen IQ data analyzed by the consulting firm Bump Williams. Sales of Bud Light fell to 7.3 percent in the same period.
The shift follows a conservative-led boycott against Bud Light that started after Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender influencer, posted a video on Instagram on April 1 promoting a Bud Light contest. Bud Light's share of retail sales has dropped about three percentage points since the boycott began.
Sales began to dip after commentators and celebrities on the right began to protest. Anheuser-Busch, the maker of Bud Light, later announced the departure of two marketing executives, but the company's attempt to backtrack drew further criticism, this time from liberals and members of the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
The controversy has spotlighted the challenges brands and retailers like Adidas and Target have faced in marketing to L.G.B.T.Q. consumers in a polarized political environment.
Anheuser-Busch did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
"Bud Light's missteps felt like a betrayal to both its liberal and conservative customers, and that trust is going to take months, if not years, to rebuild," said Daniel Korschun, an associate professor of marketing at Drexel University's LeBow College of Business.
Sales of Bud Light hovered around 10 percent of U.S. retail beer sales until the four weeks that ended on April 22, when it dropped to 8.7 percent, and have trended downward since. Modelo, Coors Light and Miller Lite each saw bumps in their share of the retail beer market in the same period.
Research has shown that the effects of boycotts are often short-lived. Bud Light has dominated the market for at least the past two decades, but in recent years it has faced tough competition, said Dave Williams, the vice president of analytics and insights at Bump Williams.
"I can't recall any other brand surpassing Bud Light in recent years, though brands such as Modelo Especial and Michelob Ultra have certainly been on an upward trajectory doing their best to narrow the gap between themselves and Bud Light," Mr. Williams said in an email.
Bud Light still has a stronghold over the American beer market. Based on year-to-date data, it is still the top-selling beer in the United States. It also sells more beer by volume than any other brand.
The data analyzed was only for off-premise sales, meaning it does not consider beer purchases from bars and restaurants.
Photograph Bud Light sales have fallen from 10 percent of the retail market to 7.3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Marketing; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Breweries

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/14/business/bud-light-lgbtq-backlash.html

Title: Bud Light Loses Perch As Top Seller After Boycott:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825675326

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bud-light-loses-perch-as-top-seller-after-boycott/docview/2825675326/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Blue Jays Cut Player Who Defended His Posting of Anti-Queer Video on Instagram: [Sports Desk]

Author: Jiménez, Jesus

Publication info: Jiménez, Jesus. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/blue-jays-cut-player-who-defended-his-posting/docview/2824427167/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Anthony Bass had reposted a video on social media that called for a boycott of L.G.B.T.Q.-friendly companies.
The Toronto Blue Jays cut pitcher Anthony Bass, 35, on Friday, after he drew backlash and boos from fans for reposting a video on Instagram that called Target and Bud Light "evil" and "demonic" for being supportive of the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
The Blue Jays announced on Friday that they had designated Bass for assignment, effectively cutting him from the team, just hours before he was set to catch a ceremonial first pitch to kick off the team's Pride Weekend for a series against the Minnesota Twins.
Last month, Bass reposted a video on Instagram that called for boycotting both Target and Bud Light, which have recently drawn the ire of conservatives, Bud Light for featuring a transgender influencer in a social media promotion, and Target for promoting its Pride collection, which included clothes and books for children. The video, which came from a Bible-themed Instagram page, was briefly posted by Bass to his Instagram Story in late May.
After the post caused blowback, Bass told reporters that he apologized for sharing the post because it was "hurtful to the Pride community." Bass said that he was going to work with the team to "make better decisions moving forward."
"The ballpark is for everybody," Bass said. "We include all fans at the ballpark, and we want to welcome everybody."
The backlash toward Bass was the latest instance of a Major League Baseball team running into issues with the L.B.G.T.Q. community. Last month, the Los Angeles Dodgers were called out by some fans after the team, under pressure from Catholic critics, dropped the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence from its Pride Night pregame ceremony. The Dodgers later backtracked on that decision after multiple L.G.B.T.Q. groups pulled out of the event.
Last year, the Tampa Bay Rays faced questions after the team allowed multiple players to opt out of wearing the team's Pride Night uniforms.
The fallout in Toronto appeared to have settled down until Thursday when Bass, speaking to reporters, defended the message in the post he shared.
"I stand by my personal beliefs," Bass told reporters. "And everyone is entitled to their personal beliefs, right? Also, I mean no harm towards any groups of people."
When asked if he thought the post he shared was hateful, Bass said, "I do not."
"That's why I posted it originally," Bass told reporters on Thursday. "When I look back at it, I can see how people would view it that way and that's why I was apologetic."
Toronto's general manager, Ross Atkins, told reporters on Friday that the move to cut the relief pitcher was primarily driven by his performance this season.
In 22 games this season, Bass pitched 20 innings, with a lackluster earned run average of 4.95. In 2022, he recorded a 1.54 E.R.A. in 73 games, both career bests.
"There's a myriad of variables, and performance is usually the driving one," Atkins said. "Performance was a large aspect of this decision. Distraction was a small part of it, and something that we had to factor in."
Since making his major league debut in 2011, Bass had bounced around from team to team. In 2016, he left M.L.B. to pitch professionally in Japan, before returning stateside.
By designating Bass for assignment, the Blue Jays now have seven days to trade him or place him on irrevocable outright waivers.
Photograph "I stand by my personal beliefs," Anthony Bass, a relief pitcher, told reporters on Thursday. This article appeared in print on page A27.

Subject: Social networks; Professional baseball

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Toronto Blue Jays; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/09/sports/baseball/toronto-blue-jays-anthony-bass.html

Title: Blue Jays Cut Player Who Defended His Posting of Anti-Queer Video on Instagram:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.27

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2824427167

Document URL: https://w ww.proquest.com/newspapers/blue-jays-cut-player-who-defended-his-posting/docview/2824427167/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Starring in 'Parade' Has Taught Me About Hate and Hope: [Op-Ed]

Author: Diamond, Micaela

Publication info: Diamond, Micaela. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starring-parade-has-taught-me-about-hate-hope/docview/2824427113/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Eight times a week, I watch a Jewish man get lynched on Broadway.
"Parade," in which I play the part of Lucille Frank, is a musical based on the true story of Leo Frank, a Jewish man who managed a pencil factory in Atlanta. In 1913 he was accused and convicted -- despite a lack of crucial physical evidence -- of murdering a 13-year-old girl who was found dead in the factory's basement. He was given a death sentence that was later commuted. But by then, the public was so enraged, he was kidnapped from prison and hanged by a mob. A large part of the musical dramatizes the trial. It is also, surprisingly, a love story.
My character is Leo's wife, who's forced to face the unforgiving nature of racial supremacy and the impossibility of escaping her Jewish identity. In the opening scene of "Parade," Lucille chides Leo for using Yiddish words like "meshuggeneh." Unlike Leo, she has embraced wealthy Southern society her entire life. The book writer of "Parade," Alfred Uhry, likes to say that people like Lucille are "Southern first, American second, Jewish later." To an audience, the only hint of her Jewish roots, at first, may be her curls.
I can relate to Lucille -- her Jewishness, her lack of Jewishness, her insistence on assimilation. There are so many parts of my identity that feel more at the forefront than my Jewishness, like being an actor, being queer, being a good cook. Admittedly and annoyingly, I made plenty of "Jew-ish" jokes growing up. I went to Israel on Birthright at 19 mostly because I wanted to make out with my best friend in a foreign country.
Yet our identities are as nuanced as our roots are indelible. Both Lucille and I wear jewelry with the Star of David; for me and perhaps for her, it symbolizes the history and resilience of our people. Along with the other Jewish cast members in our show, I stand in a circle and say the Kaddish before almost every performance. None of us regularly go to synagogue, but it is an expression of community as we tell this hard story.
Working on this show night after night, I'm forced to confront another truth: Antisemites have never cared what kind of Jew you are, whether you attend synagogue or throw around Yiddish words. "Parade" speaks to historical antisemitism and mob violence, and it forces us to see how antisemitism and racism are inextricably linked, underscoring how the pursuit of justice fails in a broken judicial system. There is fear in acknowledging ourselves -- Jewish people -- as marginalized. But as Lucille learns through the course of the play, assimilating into the mainstream and hoping that will protect you isn't the answer. If we refuse to embrace our inherent otherness -- the parts that make us definitively Jewish Americans -- we forget our common struggle with other marginalized people.
The evidence presented against Leo in court revolves mostly around Jewish stereotypes. We hear about Leo's "fancy talk" and his "sweating from every pore," and we hear testimonies that he had a pattern of inviting underage girls up to his office. Many of these stereotypes felt outlandish to me, but such conspiracies are at the very core of colloquial antisemitism. The idea of "fancy talk" is a dog whistle referring to the perception that Jews run the world. The pedophile accusations are rooted in what is known as blood libel, a rumor dating back to the Middle Ages that Jews murder Christian children, then use their blood for ritual purposes like baking matzo.
But in the play, it is not only Jews who are maligned and abused. The only other person the police considered making a suspect in the murder was a Black man, the night watchman of the pencil factory. In the show, the prosecutor on the case has been instructed to deliver a quick conviction, and he casually states that hanging a Black man "ain't enough this time. We gotta do better." He knows that pinning the crime on a Jewish man will cast the outcome in a different light than pinning it on a Black man: He can knock the Jewish man down a peg, whereas the Black man's social status has no farther to fall. In the layered storytelling of "Parade," we can see how antisemitism and racism are integrally connected and how white people in power are incentivized to pit minorities against one another, using racism to provide convenient scapegoats and the illusion of law and order.
Minnie -- Minola McKnight, played by the incomparable Danielle Lee Greaves -- is the Franks' Black housekeeper. She's built a relationship with Lucille over years, becoming her confidante. But Minnie testifies against Leo, offering evidence we later learn was fabricated by the prosecution. It is a damning moment, both because it leads to Leo's indictment and because it forces the audience to reckon with how the criminal justice system fails to protect all of those without power.
"Parade" was first produced on Broadway in 1998 and Michael Arden, who directed the 2023 production, understands that successfully reviving a musical requires purposeful reinvention. Throughout the process, he has led with beautiful intention around making those who were underrepresented in 1913 (or 2023) a stronger and more active presence. Among my favorite moments in the show is one of the last: Minnie and Lucille, reconciled, center stage, singing softly under a parasol together. A Black woman and a Jewish woman, undone by the same system, having a picnic.
Given the deep pain Black people have suffered at the hands of white supremacy, I spent a lot of time reflecting on why we're telling Leo Frank's story from 1913 when a multitude of Black people had been lynched at that time. What about their stories?
But "Parade" is also about the importance of honoring every story and recognizing the ways in which we can take responsibility for one another. It's a story about dangers inherent to America's essence: a country built on values of inclusivity and representation that is too often resistant to progress and change. The gruesome reality of white centralized power means history will always have an iron grip on us, holding us in the past. The musical's opening number features a Confederate soldier singing about the beautiful hills of red clay he is going to war for. The show closes with the same melody in its finale; we see a contemporary white couple crack a Bud Light at a picnic on the same red clay and are reminded that this history is alive.
I am often asked, "How do you do a show so heavy night after night?" There is something about this story of a Jewish woman finding her voice, about a couple out of love returning to each other, that is healing and inspiring. It has given me a newfound responsibility as an actor, as a human and as a Jew telling this story. It has also shown me how the harms this country has inflicted on its own people for centuries intersect, and today, the show allows me to see myself -- and hopefully allows us all to see ourselves -- in those difficult stories.
There have also been such profound moments of joy. In May, Ben Platt, who plays Leo, and I were invited to perform songs from our show for the White House's American Jewish Heritage Month celebration in front of the president, the first lady and many prominent Jewish Americans. (I brought a napkin home for my mom as a souvenir.)
Yet during our first preview performance, on the street outside the Jacobs Theater on Broadway, a group of neo-Nazis protested the show, handing out fliers and holding banners. A play that was meant to be a revival of a century-old story suddenly had contemporary implications. It was a haunting reminder of this story's immediacy.
After Leo Frank was lynched, the real-life Lucille stayed in Georgia until her death. She didn't run far away, not even to Brooklyn, where he grew up. I've often wondered why. Maybe she knew she would find antisemitism there, too. When my mother heard the news about the harassing neo-Nazis, she couldn't believe it. "In New York! In New York," she lamented. But antisemitism has always been here, in my Manhattan, in Leo's Brooklyn and Lucille's Atlanta.
So eight times a week, I watch a Jewish man lynched on a Broadway stage. And how do I do a show so heavy night after night? With this crucial reminder: We will find the music in all of it. We will find joy in the Franks' lives and in the stories we share with one another backstage. We will bring the Franks to the White House. We will see ourselves in the heroes and the villains. We will honor Leo Frank and all those who deserved, but never saw, due process.
We will find the music. We will, and we will, and we will.
Micaela Diamond is starring as Lucille Frank in the Broadway revival of "Parade."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
An actor who plays Lucille Frank in the Broadway revival of "Parade."
This article appeared in print on page SR8.

Subject: Yiddish language; Evidence; Racism; Black people; Musical performances; Stereotypes; Antisemitism; Jewish people; Nazi groups; Parades; Jewish Americans; Actors; Murders & murder attempts

Location: New York; United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/09/opinion/parade-hate-hope-broadway.html

Title: Starring in 'Parade' Has Taught Me About Hate and Hope:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 11, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2824427113

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starring-parade-has-taught-me-about-hate-hope/docview/2824427113/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Has Chick-fil-A 'Gone Woke'? Conservatives Say Its D.E.I. Policy Proves It Has.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Jiménez, Jesus

Publication info: Jiménez, Jesus. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/has-chick-fil-gone-woke-conservatives-say-d-e-i/docview/2821526119/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The fast-food chain, once a darling of conservatives, has joined other corporations in pursuing diversity, equity and inclusion policies, prompting some on the right to accuse it of going "woke."
Chick-fil-A drew fierce criticism this week from conservatives calling out the fast-food chain for its diversity, equity and inclusion policy and questioning the hiring of an executive to be in charge of such efforts.
The backlash has made Chick-fil-A one of the latest companies to draw public condemnation over "culture war" flash points like L.G.B.T.Q. rights or seeking fair treatment for racial or ethnic groups that have been historically underrepresented. Several companies and brands have also been at the center of such criticism in recent months, including Bud Light, Target and the Los Angeles Dodgers. Chick-fil-A itself has drawn controversy in the past, though more typically from the left.
'Chick-fil-A has gone woke'
This week, many conservatives have rebuked Chick-fil-A, pointing to a corporate policy on its website that details the company's focus on "ensuring equal access," "valuing differences," and "creating a culture of belonging," under the title, "Committed to being Better at Together."
Critics also singled out the chain's hiring of Erick McReynolds to head its D.E.I. efforts, but that is also not a new development.
Citing that policy, Wade Miller, an executive director for Center for Renewing America, a conservative think tank, said on Twitter that he could no longer support the company as a customer: "Everything good must come to an end."
Jeffrey Clark, a former Justice Department official who was implicated in former President Donald J. Trump's efforts to overturn the 2020 election, said on Twitter that Chick-fil-A's policy was "disappointing."
"Chick-fil-A has gone woke," wrote Ian Miles Cheong, a right-wing critic with 625,000 Twitter followers. The conservative commentator Charlie Kirk of Turning Point USA shared a similar sentiment with his 2.2 million followers.
It was unclear why Chick-fil-A was only drawing criticism now for its D.E.I. efforts, since the company has long had such a policy in place. As for Mr. McReynolds, company records show that he had been the company's vice president of diversity, equity and inclusion since at least 2020.
The chain, known for its fried chicken sandwiches and waffle fries, declined to comment on Wednesday.
Chick-fil-A has faced past 'social justice' controversies.
Chick-fil-A has been in the spotlight in the past over matters of inclusion, but for different reasons and from a different direction.
Chick-fil-A was a founded by S. Truett Cathy, a religious man who wanted to have his business closed on Sundays so that his workers could rest and worship if they wanted to do so. The company, which says its corporate purpose is "to glorify God by being a faithful steward of all that is entrusted to us," had aligned itself with conservative causes by donating to groups that tried to prevent the legalization of same-sex marriage in the United States.
In 2012, its president and chief operating officer spoke in favor of traditional marriage, inviting protests from advocates for same-sex marriage. The company had also been criticized for closing on Sundays because of religious beliefs.
Under pressure, the company later stopped almost all donations to organizations that opposed equal rights for people of different sexual orientation.
The chicken chain was criticized again in 2019 for making charitable donations to the Salvation Army and the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, two groups that had been criticized by L.G.B.T.Q. advocates. The company then stopped making donations to those groups.
What exactly is a D.E.I. policy?
Corporate companies have had policies that promote diversity, equity and inclusion in some form for decades, largely to avoid discrimination on the basis of race, sex or religion. In recent years, these policies have increasingly been gathered under the acronym D.E.I.
Ivuoma Onyeador, a Northwestern University professor whose research examines how people understand discrimination and disparities, said that companies have D.E.I. policies to ensure that "their employees and customers and clients from marginalized backgrounds are having the same experience as employees, customers and clients from dominant groups or well-represented backgrounds."
Those policies "signal to employees from marginalized backgrounds, or racial minorities, that the companies care about their experiences," Dr. Onyeador said. "That's the benefit of having these programs."
Stephanie Creary, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania whose research focuses on inclusion in the workplace, said that D.E.I. efforts have traditionally focused on issues such as anti-discrimination and anti-harassment policies, mentoring and sponsorship programs.
Over the years, Dr. Creary said that "D.E.I. practices have become broader in scope, particularly in terms of the dimensions of difference on which they focus, including religious values."
Chick-fil-A strengthened its policies after the George Floyd protests.
Experts said that D.E.I. efforts were bolstered after the killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor by the police in 2020 spurred nationwide protests calling for social justice and police accountability.
"The Floyd moment felt like a shift," Dr. Onyeador said. "The 2020 moment, the Black Lives Matter moment over the last decade, has brought lots of these discussions to the forefront in a particularly unique way."
Alvin Tillery, the director of the Center for the Study of Diversity and Democracy at Northwestern, said that protests in the summer of 2020 revealed to corporations that many of their workers, especially younger ones, were "aggressively committed to racial justice."
"The corporate diversity programs shifted from these kind of benign discussions of recruiting and nonconscious bias to an active discussion of accountability for antiracism and gender equity," Dr. Tillery said.
In an internal report, Chick-fil-A said that in 2020 the commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion efforts "took on special significance for us as we proactively pursued new ways to work against racism, systemic or subtle, throughout the communities we serve."
The report, which does not explicitly refer to the social justice protests from that year, said that the company held dozens of listening sessions "to better understand and address racial injustice."
Those efforts informed the company's plans "to address racial injustice," the report said.
Corporations are now caught in the political crossfire.
Corporations in the United States have to follow federal laws -- such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 -- that make it illegal to discriminate against someone on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or a disability.
Dr. Tillery said that many companies have D.E.I. policies to avoid the potential consequences of discriminatory practices.
"If companies don't want to face lawsuits, or Equal Employment Opportunity Commission complaints, it makes sense for them to have equity policies to make sure that there are no racial gaps," Dr. Tillery said.
Some companies also see D.E.I. as part of a moral commitment to justice and higher ideals. Dr. Onyeador added that many see a "business case for diversity.."
She described that as "the idea that being a more diverse company, or having a more inclusive climate, increases performance outcome for a company."
This has put companies like Chick-fil-A at odds with some customers. It has also led to a political backlash among Republicans seeking to appeal to conservative voters. In Florida, for example, Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican candidate for president, recently signed legislation defunding diversity programs at the state's public universities and colleges.
Dr. Onyeador said that she believes conservatives have conflated increased D.E.I. efforts with support for other social justice efforts, such as the Black Lives Matter movement.
"Because they're against D.E.I. policies or 'wokeism,"' Ms. Onyeador said, "they're struggling with the connection between Chick-fil-A, as a company that they see as on their side, that is also engaging in this other work."
Photograph The fast-food chain has drawn fire from the right for its policy on diversity, equity and inclusion, and for appointing an executive to head those efforts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKUB PORZYCKI/NURPHOTO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Conservatism; Social justice; Same sex marriage; Employees; Fast food industry; Criticism; Presidents; Religion; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Race; Black Lives Matter movement; Americans with Disabilities Act 1990-US; Equal rights; Accountability

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Fast food industry Americans with Disabilities Act 1990-US

Location: United States--US

People: Floyd, George

Company / organization: Name: Chick-fil-A Inc; NAICS: 533110, 722513

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/31/business/chick-fil-a-woke-dei.html

Title: Has Chick-fil-A 'Gone Woke'? Conservatives Say Its D.E.I. Policy Proves It Has.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 2, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821526119

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/has-chick-fil-gone-woke-conservatives-say-d-e-i/docview/2821526119/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pride Month Presents Risk For Brands: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pride-month-presents-risk-brands/docview/2819183186/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Target became the latest company to adjust plans for marketing supportive of the L.G.B.T.Q. community after it faced backlash from some customers.
For years, Pride Month, the annual celebration for L.G.B.T.Q. Americans, has afforded companies a marketing opportunity to tap into the buying power of a group with growing financial, political and social clout.
Yet, while these efforts have always faced some opposition, brands and marketers say the country's current political environment -- especially around transgender issues -- has made this year's campaigns more complicated. This week Target became the latest company to rethink its approach after facing criticism for its Pride collection, which included clothes and books for children that drew outrage from some on the right.
The retailer moved its Pride displays -- including rainbow-striped collared shirts, yellow hoodies reading "Not a Phase" and baby clothing and accessories -- from the entrances of some Target stores around the country and placed them in the back.
Target said it was concerned "about threats impacting our team members' sense of safety and well-being while at work" after some customers had screamed at employees and thrown the Pride-themed merchandise on the floor.
Among the items angering some customers was a one-piece, tuck-friendly swimsuit -- a bathing suit that has extra material for the crotch area for individuals who want to conceal their genitalia. Some critics erroneously claimed that the swimsuit was being sold to children; Target said it was available only in adult sizes. The collection also includes children's books about transgender issues and gender fluidity.
One woman recorded a TikTok video in a Target store on Monday in which she became angry at seeing a greeting card that read "So Glad You Came Out" and a yellow onesie that said "¡Bien Proud!"
"If that doesn't give you a reason to boycott Target, I don't know what does," she said.
In a statement, a company spokeswoman said, "Given these volatile circumstances, we are making adjustments to our plans, including removing items that have been at the center of the most significant confrontational behavior." She added that the company, which has been selling Pride Month merchandise for a decade, remained committed to the L.G.B.T.Q. community "and standing with them as we celebrate Pride Month and throughout the year."
While Target said its decision had been made in the interest of employee safety, many said its actions -- along with a conservative backlash against Bud Light after it worked with a transgender influencer -- might alienate the community it was seeking to support. And those who criticized Target and Bud Light in the first place may now feel further emboldened to attack inclusive initiatives by other companies.
"We're in a new space here with safety and employee safety being threatened by policy and purpose," said Vanitha Swaminathan, professor of marketing at the University of Pittsburgh. "I can't say that you can disregard employee safety. That's very core to what a company has to do. At the same time, Target can still, from a policy standpoint, be supportive of their initial stance. It's sad to see that we've reached this point in our culture wars."
Marketing campaigns around Pride Month in June have become routine for many companies, with opposition cropping up at times. Last year, for instance, Pizza Hut faced calls for a boycott after it recommended "Big Wig," a book featuring drag performers, as part of its children's summer reading program.
Yet companies and marketers say the political climate makes this year different -- primarily because a number of Republican-led states have introduced and passed legislation restricting transition care for transgender minors and adults, and transgender rights has become a galvanizing issue for many conservatives.
GLAAD, the L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy group that works with more than 160 companies, is considering having communications professionals in its GLAAD Media Institute work with brands that are planning Pride Month celebrations so they can better respond to criticism.
"We do feel like we're at a moment where, with the politicization of trans and gender-nonconforming folks, that we probably need to assemble a Pride war room for brands so that we can push back," Sarah Kate Ellis, the group's chief executive, said in an interview.
On Thursday, GLAAD and six other advocacy groups called on Target to return to its stores and its website any Pride merchandise it had removed and to release a statement "in the next 24 hours reaffirming their commitment" to the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
When faced with criticism and social media calls for boycotts in the past, most companies learned that the declarations of outrage soon faded away.
Then Bud Light happened. Owned by the beer giant Anheuser-Busch, Bud Light continues to struggle with the fallout from a social media campaign in mid-March with the transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney. After calls for a boycott of the beer, sales in the four weeks ending in mid-May dropped more than 23 percent from a year earlier, according to data from the research firm NIQ and Bump Williams Consulting, which works with the alcoholic beverage industry.
In some markets in the South, such as Jacksonville, Fla., and New Orleans, Bud Light's sales were down 40 percent in those four weeks.
Anheuser-Busch, which in recent years has released rainbow-hued bottles and cans of Bud Light for Pride Month, did not respond to a question about its plans for this year.
Some marketing and communications consultants said the negative reaction to Bud Light's campaign with Ms. Mulvaney was a product of the beer's generally more politically conservative customer base. Companies like Nike or Starbucks can more easily create products or campaigns around gay and transgender issues or Pride Month because their consumers tend to be younger and more progressive, said David Johnson, the chief executive of Strategic Vision PR Group in Atlanta.
"When they embrace the gay or transgender community, it's not out of line with their core beliefs," he said.
A number of companies are moving forward with their Pride Month plans. In June, the Coors Light Denver Pride Parade will weave its way through the city. Advertisements for a one-piece Adidas swimsuit created by the South African queer designer Rich Mnisi feature a transgender man as the model. Levi's has a campaign showing a half-dozen gay and transgender people talking about how they show up while wearing the company's denim and tops.
But a number of other companies are being much less forthcoming about specific Pride Month plans. And some L.G.B.T.Q. advocates criticized Target for seeming to cave to pressure. (The company's decision did come as employees in the retail industry have faced increasingly aggressive behavior from customers since the start of the pandemic.)
Target also removed a Pride line from Abprallen, an L.G.B.T.Q. fashion and accessories company based in London, some of whose designs have been criticized for depicting satanic symbols like pentagrams and a shirt that reads "Satan respects pronouns." Abprallen did not respond to a request for comment.
"We'll find out in the next week which companies are continuing to make a push and do Pride Month campaigns," said Matt Skallerud, the president of Pink Media, which specializes in L.G.B.T.Q. online marketing. "If companies we know have been supportive of Pride Month don't show up this year, their absence will be noticed, and I'd be concerned that could harm them."
Advocacy groups are wary that all of this could create a chilling effect, especially when it comes to attaining a broader representation of L.G.B.T.Q. people in advertising.
"White gay men are the one segment that are most likely represented on our screens, whether it's programing or ads," said Lisette Arsuaga, co-founder of the Alliance for Inclusive and Multicultural Marketing. "We now started moving forward with a greater representation of all of the letters within the L.G.B.T.Q."
The overall consumer sentiment for seeing trans representation on TV and in advertising hasn't changed, according to recent GLAAD research. In a survey that was conducted in February, GLAAD said, 75 percent of people who did not identify as L.G.B.T.Q. were comfortable seeing those people represented in marketing campaigns. That figure held steady from 2020.
"You can absolutely roll out an ad campaign and include L.G.B.T.Q. folks in it," Ms. Ellis of GLAAD said. "And at the same time, there is this political right-wing arm that you have to be aware of when you're doing it and just be prepared for."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Childrens literature; Occupational safety; Marketing; Children & youth; Customers; Politics; Employees; Advocacy; Social networks; Transgender persons; Breweries; Advertising campaigns

Business indexing term: Subject: Occupational safety Marketing Customers Employees Social networks Breweries Advertising campaigns

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/25/business/target-pride-lgbtq-companies-backlash.html

Title: Pride Month Presents Risk For Brands:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819183186

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pride-month-presents-risk-brands/docview/2819183186/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Mike Shannon, Who Was a Lifelong St. Louis Cardinal, Dies at 83: [Biography]

Author: Sandomir, Richard

Publication info: Sandomir, Richard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mike-shannon-who-was-lifelong-st-louis-cardinal/docview/2810282452/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A St. Louis native, he devoted his entire career to the team -- first as an outfielder and third baseman and then, for 50 years, as a radio announcer.
Mike Shannon, who played in three World Series with the St. Louis Cardinals and then became a favorite of the team's fans as one of its radio broadcasters for 50 seasons, died on Saturday. He was 83.
The Cardinals announced the death but did not give a cause or say where he died. Shannon had been hospitalized in 2020 with Covid-19 and later suffered from symptoms of long Covid.
Shannon was one of the few announcers in baseball history to spend 50 years or more with one team. His longevity was among the things that endeared him to listeners, along with his exuberance and his passion for seeing the Cardinals win.
In 2003, when the Cardinal slugger Albert Pujols hit a home run after being brushed back by the Chicago Cubs' Kerry Wood, Shannon was ebullient: "Swing and hello, Fourth of July! Take a ride on that knockdown pitch, big boy! Kerry Wood knocked him down and now Albert looks at him as he goes around first. He gives him the glare, saying, 'Take a whiff of that, big boy!"'
Bob Costas, the former NBC sportscaster whose early professional work was in St. Louis, said that Shannon's roots there were a key to his success. "He was one of those guys," he said by phone, "like Herb Score in Cleveland, Joe Nuxhall in Cincinnati and Jerry Remy in Boston, where it works because he's local, he's one of our guys -- and, in his case, grew up in St Louis and was a three-sport star in high school."
Shannon was known for his signature home run call, "Get up, baby, get up!" and for odd and idiosyncratic lines: He referred to a pop-up as "a home run in a telephone booth" and to a Cardinal victory as a "monstramental win," and he once declared that a young fan who had been hit by a foul ball "will leave the stadium with a souvenir today -- not a ball but a nice-looking bruise."
Joe Buck, who, like his father, Jack, was one of Shannon's radio partners, said by phone: "His Shannonisms made for great listening, and some of it was so illogical. But you had to know he was one of the most common-sense people I've ever met. He had a keen eye for the game and would have been a great manager."
Thomas Michael Shannon was born on July 15, 1939, in St. Louis to Thomas and Elizabeth (Richason) Shannon. His father was a police officer and later became a city prosecutor.
Mike was an outstanding athlete at Christian Brothers College High School, where he was a football all-American, and in 1957 he was named the Missouri prep player of the year in both basketball and football. He attended the University of Missouri for a year as a quarterback on a football scholarship. But he was also a baseball prospect, and in 1958 he signed with the Cardinals for what he said in his autobiography was almost $ 100,000, although it was reported at the time as $ 40,000.
After four years in the minor leagues, he played sparingly with the Cardinals in 1962 and 1963, often as the late-innings defensive replacement for the great hitter Stan Musial, who was then in the final year of his Hall of Fame career.
Shannon did not follow Musial into the Hall of Fame (although he played with several future Hall of Famers, including Bob Gibson, Lou Brock, Orlando Cepeda and Steve Carlton). But he was a solid player whose two-run home run off the Yankees' Whitey Ford in Game 1 of the 1964 World Series tied the score at 4-4. The Cardinals won the game, 9-5, and went on to take the series in seven games.
In 1967, Shannon moved from right field to third base after the Cardinals acquired Roger Maris from the Yankees. The two became close friends.
St. Louis won the World Series again that year, beating the Boston Red Sox in seven games. The next year, the Detroit Tigers defeated the Cardinals, also in seven games. Shannon hit a home run in each of those series.
Shannon played until 1970, when he developed membranous nephropathy, an autoimmune disorder of the kidneys, which ended his career. He had a career batting average of .255, with 68 home runs and 367 runs batted in, and was elected to the Cardinals' Hall of Fame in 2014. Two of his teammates died recently: the shortstop Dick Groat last month and the catcher Tim McCarver, who also had a distinguished career as a broadcaster, in February.
Shannon joined the Cardinals' promotions department in 1971 and became a team announcer the next season. In addition to calling Cardinal games, he was part of NBC's backup crew for its "Game of the Week" in the 1980s. He retired after the 2021 season.
His survivors include his wife, Lori (Bergman) Shannon; his daughters, Patricia, Peg and Erin; his sons, Michael Jr., Tim and Dan; 18 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren. His first wife, Judith Ann (Bufe) Shannon, died in 2007.
The ball that Shannon slugged in Game 1 of the 1964 World Series traveled more than 450 feet and broke the "u" in the Budweiser sign in left field at Busch Stadium, causing $ 5,000 in damage. At first, he thought he would have to pay for it.
In his autobiography, "Get Up, Baby!: My Seven Decades with the St. Louis Cardinals" (2022, with Rick Hummel), he recalled: "Gussie Busch, our owner, said in that gravelly voice of his, 'That's all right, buddy. You can break the whole sign down.' And Gussie paid for it."
Photograph Shannon during his final game, in 2021. He was one of the few announcers in history to spend 50 years or more with one team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN DONOVAN/ST LOUIS CARDINALS); Mike Shannon after hitting a two-run home run in the 1964 World Series against the Yankees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A29.

Subject: Professional baseball; Athletes; Deaths

People: Shannon, Mike

Company / organization: Name: St Louis Cardinals; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/02/sports/baseball/mike-shannon-dead.html

Title: Mike Shannon, Who Was a Lifelong St. Louis Cardinal, Dies at 83:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.29

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2810282452

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mike-shannon-who-was-lifelong-st-louis-cardinal/docview/2810282452/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Philadelphia: [Travel Desk]

Author: Williams, Ingrid K

Publication info: Williams, Ingrid K. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/philadelphia/docview/2810023171/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Friday
2 p.m. | Walk the waterfront
Take in views of the city skyline on a sunny stroll along the Schuylkill River Trail. Start near the South Street Bridge and walk north on the over-water boardwalk and riverside path, past David McShane's enormous "The Phillies Mural" and the colonnaded Philadelphia Museum of Art, to Boathouse Row where crew teams launch from the bankside rowing clubs. Should it rain, head for the post-industrial Delaware riverfront with its own (albeit less scenic) waterside path, and take cover at the repurposed Cherry Street Pier. Inside a cavernous old pier building, stacked shipping containers now house studios for photographers, painters, graphic designers and sculptors. Peek inside these workspaces (many are open to the public) and the back garden facing the Ben Franklin Bridge.
4 p.m. | Seek art connections
Far more than a weekend is needed to explore the world-class cultural and scientific institutions lining the Benjamin Franklin Parkway -- the city's "Museum Mile" -- which includes the Rodin Museum, the Franklin Institute and the Philadelphia Museum of Art with its cinematic steps (and triumphant Rocky statue). For now, start at the Barnes Foundation and its singular collection of Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and Modern art (admission $ 25). Paul Cézanne watercolors hang above West African masks, a Henri Matisse masterpiece rests beneath an iron hasp, and works by Pablo Picasso and Paul Klee are grouped with various antique hinges and a surly cat painting, artist unknown -- eclectic arrangements meant to highlight connections across different cultures and media. On the first Friday of the month, the museum hosts live music performances from chamber orchestras and jazz ensembles (from 6 p.m.).
7 p.m. Feast in the Northeast
The formerly working-class Fishtown neighborhood now has some of the city's most exciting restaurants. Modern Lebanese cuisine is the draw at Suraya, a beautiful space with patterned-tile floors, glowing pendant lamps and a leafy rear courtyard where celebratory groups gather around dipping bowls of hummus; crisp za'atar manoushe, a flatbread; and shareable plates of slow-roasted lamb and muhammara-brushed kebabs. (Set dinner only on weekends, $ 75 per person.) The mood is even more festive at Middle Child Clubhouse, a rollicking new hangout where the imaginative food -- "okonomiyaki-style" latkes with Kewpie mayo and bonito flakes ( $ 3), broiled oysters with 'nduja butter ( $ 15) and snickerdoodle crème brulée ( $ 10) -- is as fun as the cocktail list, with pitchers of grapefruit margaritas ( $ 65) to get the party started.
9 p.m. Jazz up the night
After dinner, head to Center City, downtown Philly, for some live music, and make it jazz, since this is the city where Billie Holiday was born, where John Coltrane studied music and where Dizzy Gillespie played the local clubs. Every Friday, Bob and Barbara's Lounge hosts the Crowd Pleasers, a long-standing band playing toe-tapping jazz and "liquor drinkin' music" from 9 p.m. (no cover). Arrive early to nab a table near the band and consider sampling "the Special": a shot of Jim Beam and a can of Pabst Blue Ribbon ( $ 4), a popular combo you can order at bars across the city (also called "the Citywide") that's said to have originated at this classic dive.
Saturday
9 a.m. Sample South Philly's smorgasbord
Whatever you wake up craving, South Philly's got it. Want an egg sandwich with sharp cheddar, arugula, bacon and peperonata on a soft sweet-potato bun ( $ 11)? Head to the new side-street cafe of the popular bakery Mighty Bread Co. Craving lox and a schmear? Join the queue waiting to be invited inside Korshak Bagels, opened in 2021 by the charmingly idiosyncratic baker and poet Phil Korshak, whose devoted followers come for long-fermented sourdough bagels (from $ 2.25) and special schmears made with goat milk and mozzarella brine. For something soothing, nothing beats a steaming bowl of rich consomé, a Mexican-style broth, with rice and garbanzo beans ( $ 4) at South Philly Barbacoa. And for something sweet, approach the window at Essen Bakery for the densely swirled chocolate-halva babka ( $ 4).
10 a.m. Tour a magic garden
The local artist Isaiah Zagar has spent decades beautifying the streets of Philadelphia, installing glittering, kaleidoscopic mosaics on hundreds of facades, both private and public. His masterpiece, arguably, is the Magic Gardens, a formerly abandoned lot on South Street that is entirely encrusted with bits of mirror, crushed ceramics, glass bottles, bicycle wheels, found objects and original folk art. Explore this psychedelic art environment, with its maze of tunnels and excavated grottoes, on a guided group tour that highlights the artist's many recurring motifs and hidden messages. Morning tours ( $ 25) begin an hour before the site officially opens and include a visit to a mesmerizing mosaicked basement gallery that is otherwise closed to visitors.
Noon Shop for local treasures
A short walk east, the Queen Village neighborhood is home to small independent shops stocked with clothing, books and art that you're unlikely to find anywhere else. Browse the shelves of Brickbat Books, a used-book store with creaky wood-plank floors and a select mix of artist monographs, illustrated children's books, poetry and literature. Then stop at Moon + Arrow, a serene home goods store filled with soft knitwear, organic elixirs, wooden toys and jewelry handmade from recycled metals. Next door, Philly Vintage Bazaar is the place to find hand-painted leather jackets, 1950s pin-up-style dresses, bejeweled collar clips made by a local artisan or a 1980s Budweiser-print bikini.
2 p.m. Revisit history
Historic monuments, colonial brick buildings and the spirit of democracy await on Independence Mall, home to the Liberty Bell and the National Constitution Center. Begin at Independence Hall, as the nation did, inside the steepled Georgian-style building where the founding fathers debated and signed the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution (and where the basement once served as the city dog pound). National park rangers lead regular tours; timed tickets required ( $ 1 processing fee). Afterward stroll through the adjacent Old City neighborhood in search of more colonial vibes, past the Betsy Ross House, where the first American flag was said to have been sewn, and down quaint cobblestone lanes, such as Elfreth's Alley, where 18th-century houses still fly the Revolution-era flag.
4 p.m. Go back to school
The Bok Building, a 348,000-square-foot decommissioned school, is today the creative workplace for more than 200 designers, architects, artists, chefs, musicians, jewelers and entrepreneurs in South Philly. Early in the day, neighborhood folks swing by for fresh-baked baguettes and orange-cardamom morning buns from the award-winning Machine Shop bakery. But arrive in the afternoon to explore the wares inside the half-dozen first-floor shops: glass design pieces and illustrations made in the building at Baby Tooth, glossy iridescent vases at Rider Ceramics, and candy-colored planters at Greenly Plant Co. After 5 p.m., head to the eighth floor for a drink at Bok Bar, an open-air rooftop with food pop-ups, cultural events, live music and an unbeatable view across the city.
7:30 p.m. Try a pie
It should surprise no one that the pizza in Philly, home to one of the country's largest Italian-American communities, is excellent. These days, you're spoiled for choice, from the old-school margherita at Angelo's in South Philly, to the pillowy tomato pie at Pizzeria Beddia in Fishtown. A relative newcomer to the scene is Eeva, which opened in Kensington in 2020, first as a take-out-only operation. Today the light-filled space is an all-day cafe, bakery, wine shop and restaurant serving wood-fired pies made with naturally leavened dough. Highlights of a recent dinner included a fiery bowl of Italian butter beans and Calabrian chili atop a thick slice of house sourdough, and a perfectly blistered pepperoni pizza drizzled with local honey. Dinner for two, without drinks, about $ 50.
10 p.m. Grab a neighborhood nightcap
Stay in the neighborhood for drinks, starting a few blocks north at Human Robot. This Kensington craft brewery produces both classic European-style lagers and juicy American I.P.A.s, which are poured in their taproom, an industrial space with a long wooden bar and exposed brick walls. Ask a bartender about the Milktube ( $ 3), a 10-ounce glass of chuggable, creamy foam said to be inspired by a traditional Czech pour (it's surprisingly dense and smooth, like the steamed froth of a cappuccino). Or continue a bit farther north to Martha, a cozy bar with a crackling fireplace, old movies projected on the wall and a dreamy enclosed patio strung with lights. To drink, try the smoky lapsang-tea-infused Negroni ( $ 11) or choose from the selection of natural wines and craft beers on tap.
Sunday
10 a.m. Spend time in the pen
It's hard to fathom that Eastern State Penitentiary, a crumbling, neo-Gothic compound occupying a full city block in the Fairmount neighborhood, was founded on progressive principles of prison reform when it opened in 1829. The now-dilapidated prison, which closed in 1971, pioneered solitary confinement cells (intended to rehabilitate prisoners) and radial floor plans, both copied by prisons worldwide. Today, the site is better known for its (supposed) paranormal activity and infamous former inmates, including the Chicago gangster Al Capone. On a 40-minute audio tour, step inside eerie cells and hear the stories of those who served time in the overcrowded cell blocks. Don't miss the video installation #BlackGirlhood, by the filmmaker Dehanza Rogers, which examines the criminalization of young Black girls, along with other exhibits exploring the fraught, compounding issues of the criminal justice system today. Admission, $ 21.
12:30 p.m. Get the best steak
Every Philadelphian has an opinion about where to get the best cheesesteak, and those of us with family roots in northwestern Roxborough are loyal to Dalessandro's. Not much has changed at this steak shop since it opened on this corner in 1961, but the pandemic did force a pivot to take-out only, which is still in place. Luckily the steaks are as good as ever. Instead of the usual thinly sliced meat, Dalessandro's ribeye is finely chopped and suffused with molten cheese (American is standard), and the roll is soft but never soggy. (I like mine topped with marinara.) Call ahead to avoid the long lines. Take your steak to the leafy Wissahickon Valley Park, a short drive away, where you can eat on a bench beside the creek, then hike on miles of trails winding through the wooded gorge.
Photograph Top, the Cherry Street Pier. Above from left: works at the Barnes Collection; a sandwich at the Mighty Bread Co.; and Independence Hall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLINE GUTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C9.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Bakeries; Art galleries & museums; Music; Artists; Flooring; Neighborhoods; Jazz; Flags; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Bakeries

Company / organization: Name: Philadelphia Museum of Art; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/30/travel/06hours-philadelphia-print.html

Title: Philadelphia:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 6, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810023171

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/philadelphia/docview/2810023171/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Beer Giant to Refocus Marketing After Stir Over Transgender Ad: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beer-giant-refocus-marketing-after-stir-over/docview/2809341179/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Executives at the beer giant told analysts that Bud Light's focus going forward will be on sports and music.
The beer giant Anheuser-Busch InBev on Thursday said that it would focus its marketing campaigns around sports and music and assign senior executives to oversee them, in the wake of controversy over a Bud Light promotion featuring a transgender influencer.
Anheuser-Busch reported a 13.6 percent increase in first quarter earnings before interest, taxes and other expenses, to $ 4.7 billion; and a 13.2 percent jump in global revenues to $ 14.2 billion from a year earlier, mostly because of higher pricing and despite a decline in beer volume in many markets, including North America.
In a call with analysts to discuss the financial results, Anheuser-Busch executives were peppered with questions about the backlash. They repeatedly noted that the promotion was limited to one influencer, Dylan Mulvaney, and one social media post, and that beer cans displaying her image had not been produced for mass distribution.
The company said that senior executives would oversee all marketing campaigns before they are rolled out, and that it would largely focus its advertising and marketing around sports and music. The company noted it was a sponsor of the recent NFL draft and the Stagecoach music festival in California last week.
"Everything we do should be about beer and promoting beer," Michel Doukeris, Anheuser-Busch's chief executive, told analysts.
"Beer will always be at the table when a debate is happening, but the beer itself should not be the focus of the debate," he added.
Bud Light has been the subject of a firestorm since mid-March when Ms. Mulvaney posted a video on her Instagram account to promote a Bud Light March Madness contest to her 1.8 million followers. In her post, which was less than a minute long, she said that the company had sent a tallboy can of Bud Light featuring her photo. An image of the can was edited into the video.
The social media post elicited a significant response as conservative celebrities and politicians called for a boycott of the brand. Soon, calls came for a reverse boycott, or buycott, encouraging people to buy Bud Light to show support for the marketing.
Sales of Bud Light slumped in early April, raising concern among investors that the post would both damage Bud Light's position in the marketplace and that of other Anheuser-Busch brands. Bud Light sales fell 17 percent in the week ending April 15, according to Beer Business Daily.
Executives downplayed the decline, noting that it represented about 1 percent of total global volume and it was too early to determine if it would continue.
Anheuser-Busch shares rose nearly 3 percent after the call, to $ 65.56, and are up 10 percent for the year. Its stock sank to lows of around $ 63 in April when data began to show the drop in sales.
In late April, the company said that it had placed two executives involved in the promotion on leave: Alissa Heinerscheid, the vice president of marketing for Bud Light, and Daniel Blake, who oversees marketing for Anheuser-Busch's mainstream brands.
Photograph Some influential conservatives called for a boycott of Bud Light. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON M. SPRECHER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Music; Marketing; Athletic drafts & trades; Social networks; Transgender persons; Breweries; Advertising campaigns

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks Breweries Advertising campaigns

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/04/business/bud-light-transgender-promotion.html

Title: Beer Giant to Refocus Marketing After Stir Over Transgender Ad:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 5, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2809341179

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beer-giant-refocus-marketing-after-stir-over/docview/2809341179/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Shopping for 'Woke-Free' Beer? Read This.: [Op-Ed]

Author: Walther, Matthew

Publication info: Walther, Matthew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shopping-woke-free-beer-read-this/docview/2807822600/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A considerable number of Americans appear to believe that Bud Light, a beer owned since 2008 by the Belgian multinational corporation Anheuser-Busch InBev, stands for a distinct set of values. They further appear to believe that those values do not include -- are, indeed, directly opposed to -- being represented by people who are transgender. This became clear this month after the transgender activist Dylan Mulvaney posted on Instagram an informal video advertisement for Bud Light that featured a photo of a promotional tallboy can sporting an image of Ms. Mulvaney's face.
You may have caught wind of what followed: widespread outrage from social conservatives, calls for boycotts of the beer by country stars and rappers (including Kid Rock, who released a video in which he destroyed cases of Bud Light with an assault weapon), a significant drop in Bud Light's sales in one week and the loss of about $ 5 billion in market capitalization. This week, Bud Light's owner announced that two of its executives were taking a leave of absence.
Other than some passing discomfort for shareholders, everything about what I hope no one will be tempted to call Bud Light-gate has an air of unreality. In addition to Bud Light, InBev owns Corona, Stella Artois, Michelob, Beck's, Modelo and many other beer brands. Given the sweeping homogenization of global corporate culture and business practices, InBev's politics are roughly the same as those of all major companies: a combination of cutthroat economic libertarianism and progressive human resources-style "sensitivity" with which few Americans wholly identify.
Despite the passionate claims about its unique identity and its conservative political profile, the only value driving Bud Light, or any other consumer good available on a global scale, is the remorseless logic of shareholder value. That makes it hard to coherently express your politics with your beer preferences.
This was not always the case. In the 1970s, when Burt Reynolds and Jerry Reed set out from Texarkana to Atlanta to deliver a truckload of Coors Banquet in the movie "Smokey and the Bandit" and the country singer Johnny Paycheck was composing dithyrambs in praise of "Colorado Kool-Aid" ("Well, it's a can of Coors brewed from a mountain stream / It'll set you head on fire an' make your kidneys scream"), there was a real sense in which Coors was a right-wing beer.
The Coors family, which generally considered Richard Nixon an embarrassing squish, opposed unionization of its breweries, supported Ronald Reagan and donated large sums to the nascent Heritage Foundation. Unpasteurized, lacking preservatives and unavailable in Eastern states, Coors was alternately regarded as raffish and déclassé, promoted by cowboy stars and denounced by the gay rights leader Harvey Milk. In the words of a television spot from 1979: "It's not city beer. It's Coors."
My maternal grandfather, a toolmaker at Buick, would no more have allowed someone to drink Coors in his presence in defiance of a union boycott than he would have tolerated a foreign car parked in his driveway. For some of my other older male relations in Michigan, Coors was embraced as an exotic symbol of Western manliness, a welcome alternative not only to Pabst Blue Ribbon and other staid Midwestern brands but also to the United Auto Workers and what they saw as its feckless paternalism. A friend who grew up in Washington confirms my impression that during the 1980s, serving Coors was unthinkable in respectable middle-class liberal social circles.
Nowadays there are few widely available consumer products that can plausibly be identified as right wing. Even Chick-fil-A, whose charitable foundation has funded groups in favor of conversion therapy and criminalizing homosexuality, announced in 2019 that it would stop such funding.
Rather than acknowledge Bud Light's place in a faceless globalized chain of ownership, advertisements for the beer attempt to underscore its supposedly distinctive American and working-class character. Some years ago a series of advertisements featured the Bud Knight, a character who figured in faux-medieval settings alongside a royal personage known as the Dilly Dilly King. In one spot, the king enters a tavern and orders "Bud Lights for everyone," eliciting cries of approval from the assembled crowd. A lone man informs his majesty that he would prefer a "nice mead," an order that is amended, with ascending fussiness, to an "autumnal mead" that must be "malty and full-bodied." Instead of being served his preferred beverage, the man is placed in a pillory by the Bud Knight. The implication is that Bud Light is for ordinary decent people who just want to have a good time with their friends, not smug effete connoisseurs.
These commercials no doubt served as a winking affirmation of what some Bud Light customers perceive as their anti-elitist worldview. But the ads do not represent InBev -- its stated or implied commitments -- in any detectable way. It is marketing all the way down. To use the language of computer programming, Bud Light is a "skin," a user interface that overlays the underlying software and hardware of generic large-scale corporate profit-seeking. This state of affairs is often obscured, perhaps because it is not human-scaled. (It's telling that when Kid Rock expressed his opposition to the Mulvaney spot, he denounced not InBev but Anheuser-Busch.)
Of all the responses to the Mulvaney affair, the most clueless was an advertisement for something called Ultra Right Beer, an astonishingly expensive alternative to Bud Light -- $ 20 for a six-pack -- that bills itself as "100 percent woke-free" beer for people "who know which restroom to use." On its website, the purveyors of Ultra Right urge customers to cease "giving money to companies who hate our values." But in our homogenized corporate culture, all major companies "hate" the ostensible "values" espoused by the creators of Ultra Right -- or are completely indifferent to them.
In the world envisioned by Ultra Right, one in which corporations had political identities that transcended profit-seeking and liability minimization, InBev would have responded to its critics either by immediately firing the executives responsible for the marketing campaign or by swiftly offering an unconditional defense of transgender rights. Instead, InBev did neither: It left it to the market to decide.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
The editor of The Lamp, a Catholic literary journal, and a contributing Opinion writer.
This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Corporate culture; LGBTQ rights; Beer; Transgender persons; Charitable foundations; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate culture Breweries

People: Kid Rock (Bob Ritchie)

Company / organization: Name: InBev SA; NAICS: 312120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/29/opinion/bud-light-sales.html

Title: Shopping for 'Woke-Free' Beer? Read This.:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 1, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2807822600

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shopping-woke-free-beer-read-this/docview/2807822600/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When DeSantis Took On the Mouse, It Roared: [National Desk]

Author: Homans, Charles

Publication info: Homans, Charles. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-desantis-took-on-mouse-roared/docview/2806330609/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida went to war against Disney over what he labels its "woke" corporate sensibility and its criticism of state policies, Tim Wildmon was cheering from the sidelines.
Mr. Wildmon, the president of the American Family Association, a right-wing religious organization, has more experience in this area than most: In 1995, his organization, which is known for its opposition to L.G.B.T.Q. rights, rallied a broad coalition of evangelical groups to boycott Disney after it extended family benefits to gay employees.
But since then, Mr. Wildmon has learned to temper his expectations. After an early wave of international media attention, the boycott receded from the headlines, and by the time Mr. Wildmon officially pulled the plug on it a decade later, it had had little discernible impact on Disney's policies or revenues.
"It was very difficult to sustain for more than three or four years," he said. "People move on. They lose interest. Things change."
And some things stay the same. Almost 20 years later, Mr. DeSantis is trying to turn Americans against The Walt Disney Company, one of the most formidable superpowers of American popular culture and commerce. He has also joined the pile-on of another corporate-cultural behemoth, Anheuser-Busch InBev, which incurred a wave of outrage on the right this month over a Bud Light marketing campaign promoting a transgender influencer.
"I'd rather be governed by we the people rather than woke companies, so I believe pushback is in order across the board," the governor said in a recent interview with Benny Johnson, a right-wing media personality.
Coming as he prepares to run for president, Mr. DeSantis's moves are testing whether changes in Republican politics and in boardrooms have rewritten the rules for anti-corporate campaigns. American businesses are increasingly engaging in social debates, responding to consumer and employee demand. In the Republican Party, meanwhile, the party's Trump-era populist rhetorical turn and hardening position on gender politics have combined to make corporate America an appealing battlefield for culture warriors.
But taking on Mickey Mouse remains a tricky business. As Mr. Wildmon and others can attest, brands of the scale and cultural footprint of Disney have emerged from past boycotts without much of a scratch. And corporations that might have been leery of such fights a generation ago are now more likely to see them as inevitable, and in some cases even a source of market advantage.
In Florida, Disney has proved a wily political foil for Mr. DeSantis. After the company criticized a Republican bill in the State Legislature limiting schools' instruction on gender and sexuality last year, Mr. DeSantis tried to strip Disney of the unusual self-governance arrangement it has enjoyed for decades in the state. But his administration appeared to be outmaneuvered when Disney's representatives found a workaround.
This month, the governor escalated the dispute by threatening a list of possible punishments. On Wednesday, after a board voted to void agreements that give the company control over expansion at its resort complex, Disney sued in federal court, claiming "a targeted campaign of government retaliation."
Bryan Griffin, Mr. DeSantis's press secretary, has described the company's moves as "an attempt to subvert the will of the people of Florida." Disney, one of the largest employers in the state, has repeatedly described its actions as compliant with state law. Its chief executive, Robert A. Iger, has criticized Mr. DeSantis's actions as "anti-business" and "anti-Florida."
Polls suggest Mr. DeSantis's political success in the debate may hinge on whether he's viewed as a populist reining in big business or a culture warrior. A Harvard-Harris poll this month found a majority of registered voters nationwide -- and a vast majority of Republicans -- siding with Mr. DeSantis in the showdown. The survey described Mr. DeSantis as attempting "to limit Disney's autonomy" and remove "special tax status."
But another poll, this one conducted this week by Reuters/Ipsos, found less than half of Republicans had a more favorable view of the governor because of his fight with Disney. And majorities of Democrats and Republicans said they were less likely to support a candidate who supported laws intended to punish companies for their positions on cultural issues.
The episode has been viewed as a weakness by his prospective rivals in the 2024 presidential primary field, in which polls show Mr. DeSantis has slipped. On his Truth Social platform, Donald J. Trump mocked Mr. DeSantis for being "absolutely destroyed by Disney."
Chris Christie, the former governor of New Jersey, questioned whether Mr. DeSantis's heavy-handed use of state power against the company undermined his claims of conservatism.
"Where are we headed here now that, if you express disagreement in this country, the government is now going to punish you?" Mr. Christie said at an event last week.
In the campaign against Anheuser-Busch, a more conventional boycott without the political complications of government intervention, the backlash has had a clearer impact. In recent days, amid reports of tumbling sales, the company announced that the marketing executives responsible for the promotional partnership with the influencer, Dylan Mulvaney, were on leave.
Other companies that have incurred the anger of consumers on the right and left, however, have generally found the ire to be short-lived. Nike was vilified by President Trump and others over its 2018 promotional campaign featuring the former N.F.L. quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who had faced outrage on the right for kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police shootings of unarmed Black people. Nike's stock fell 3 percent after the company released its first Kaepernick ad, but within weeks it had rebounded to a record high.
Nike's campaign was a signal moment in the shifting politics of corporate America, which has long made common cause with the Republican Party on issues like taxes and regulation but has been drawn into increasingly regular conflict with the party over social issues.
In part this is because corporations have become more socially liberal in their own policies, reflecting broader trends in public opinion on many issues. When the Human Rights Campaign, a prominent L.G.B.T.Q.-rights organization, published its first Corporate Equality Index in 2002, only 13 companies received the top score for L.G.B.T.Q.-friendliness. In 2022, 842 companies did.
"I think it's something that's important to their employees, to their customers and to their investors," said Eric Bloem, the organization's senior director for programs and corporate advocacy. "It's all interrelated."
In the 2010s, when newly Republican-controlled state legislatures began aggressively pursuing legislation targeting L.G.B.T.Q. rights, corporations' new social politics came into direct conflict with their old Chamber of Commerce allegiances, and often outweighed them. Companies like PayPal, Deutsche Bank, Disney and Walmart canceled expansion plans, threatened boycotts and lobbied political leaders in several states over the new laws.
The business community's shift accelerated after the police murder of George Floyd in 2020, which sent corporations as varied as Citigroup and McDonald's scrambling to signal their solidarity with the emerging wave of racial justice protests.
Brands that have performed outreach to right-leaning Americans have been an exception rather than the rule, and they have been mostly smaller enterprises. But for Republican politicians like Mr. DeSantis, the party base's discontent with the new corporate value-signaling has proved an opportunity. Last year, the communications firm Edelman found in its annual Trust Barometer survey that for the first time, a majority of Republican respondents -- and more Republicans than Democrats -- said they did not trust business.
"The Republican Party was all about promoting the virtues of capitalism," said Vivek Ramaswamy, an entrepreneur and Republican presidential candidate who has centered a criticism of corporate America's social liberalism in his campaign.
As recently as a few years ago, he said, campaigning against big business was an awkward fit for the party. Now, he said, "we can understand what's happened a little better."
Photograph In the past, boycotts of major brands like Disney have proved ephemeral and largely ineffective. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWREN SIMMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Gov. Ron DeSantis tried to strip Disney of the unusual self-governance arrangement it has enjoyed for decades in the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN RAYFORD/GETTY IMAGES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: Culture; Governors; Presidential elections; Employees; Populism; Boycotts; Political parties; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Breweries

Location: Florida; United States--US

People: DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/26/us/politics/desantis-disney-republicans.html

Title: When DeSantis Took On the Mouse, It Roared:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 27, 2023

column: Political Memo

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2806330609

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-desantis-took-on-mouse-roared/docview/2806330609/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2806330603/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Thursday, April 27, 2023.
FRONT PAGE
An article on Saturday about a labor shortage threatening annual forestry targets for the Menominee Tribe misstated the name of a organization that promotes responsible forestry. It is the Forest Stewardship Council, not the Forest Steward Council.
An article on Wednesday about a wave of right-wing outrage over a Bud Light marketing campaign misstated the timing of Anheuser-Busch's announcement about its marketing executives. Their leaves of absence were announced this week, not last Friday.
NATIONAL
An article on Monday about the decision by Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan to end all-girls swim classes misstated the size of the pool at Stuyvesant High School. It is large, but not Olympic size.
An article on Sunday about the New York City curbside composting program that is being used to produce gas for homes misstated the potency level of methane gas compared with carbon dioxide. It is 25 times more potent than carbon dioxide, not 25 percent more potent.
BUSINESS
An article on Wednesday about a top lawyer hired by both Tucker Carlson and Don Lemon to navigate their network departures misstated the ruling in a lawsuit by Michael Jackson's estate over an HBO documentary. The estate won an appeal in 2020 to go to private arbitration. It did not win a $ 100 million judgment.
ARTS
An article on Monday about television shows to watch this week misstated the surname of Awkwafina's character in the TV series "Awkwafina Is Nora From Queens." The character's name is Nora Lin, not Nora Lum, which is Awkwafina's birth name.
OPINION
A letter on Sunday from Mount Pleasant, S.C., about the flight to red states, referred incorrectly to state taxation of Social Security benefits. Some blue states tax them, not "most."
OBITUARIES
Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about Herb Douglas, an Olympic medalist in the long jump who honored the memory of the Olympic sprinter Jesse Owens by creating an international sports award in Owens's name, gave an erroneous distinction to a recipient of the honor, the middle-distance runner Mary Decker Slaney. She was a gold medal winner in World Championship competition, not in the Olympics.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
This article appeared in print on page A18.

Title: Corrections:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 27, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retraction

ProQuest document ID: 2806330603

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2806330603/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Man vs. Mouse: Ron DeSantis Finds Taking On Disney Is a Dicey Business

Author: Homans, Charles

Publication info: Homans, Charles. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-vs-mouse-ron-desantis-finds-taking-on-disney/docview/2806250573/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida went to war against The Walt Disney Co. over what he labels its “woke” corporate sensibility and its criticism of state policies, Tim Wildmon was cheering from the sidelines.
Wildmon, the president of the American Family Association, a right-wing religious organization, has more experience in this area than most: In 1995, his organization, which is known for its opposition to LGBTQ rights, rallied a broad coalition of evangelical groups to boycott Disney after it extended family benefits to gay employees.
But since then, Wildmon has learned to temper his expectations. After an early wave of international media attention, the boycott receded from the headlines, and by the time Wildmon officially pulled the plug on it a decade later, it had had little discernible impact on Disney’s policies or revenues.
“It was very difficult to sustain for more than three or four years,” he said. “People move on. They lose interest. Things change.”
And some things stay the same. Almost 20 years later, DeSantis is trying to turn Americans against Disney, one of the most formidable superpowers of American popular culture and commerce. He has also joined the pile-on of another corporate-cultural behemoth, Anheuser-Busch InBev, which incurred a wave of outrage on the right this month over a Bud Light marketing campaign promoting a transgender influencer.
“I’d rather be governed by we the people rather than woke companies, so I believe pushback is in order across the board,” the governor said in a recent interview with Benny Johnson, a right-wing media personality.
Coming as he prepares to run for president, DeSantis’ moves are testing whether changes in Republican politics and in boardrooms have rewritten the rules for anti-corporate campaigns. U.S. businesses are increasingly engaging in social debates, responding to consumer and employee demand. In the Republican Party, meanwhile, the party’s Trump-era populist rhetorical turn and hardening position on gender politics have combined to make corporate America an appealing battlefield for culture warriors.
But taking on Mickey Mouse remains a tricky business. As Wildmon and others can attest, brands of the scale and cultural footprint of Disney have emerged from past boycotts without much of a scratch. And corporations that might have been leery of such fights a generation ago are now more likely to see them as inevitable — and in some cases even a source of market advantage.
In Florida, Disney has proved a wily political foil for DeSantis. After the company criticized a Republican bill in the state Legislature limiting schools’ instruction on gender and sexuality last year, DeSantis tried to strip Disney of the unusual self-governance arrangement it has enjoyed for decades in the state. But his administration appeared to be outmaneuvered when Disney’s representatives found a workaround.
This month, the governor escalated the dispute by threatening a list of possible punishments. On Wednesday, after a board voted to void agreements that give the company control over expansion at its resort complex, Disney sued in federal court, claiming “a targeted campaign of government retaliation.”
Bryan Griffin, DeSantis’ press secretary, has described the company’s moves as “an attempt to subvert the will of the people of Florida.” Disney, one of the largest employers in the state, has repeatedly described its actions as compliant with state law. Its CEO, Robert Iger, has criticized DeSantis’ actions as “anti-business” and “anti-Florida.”
Polls suggest DeSantis’ political success in the debate may hinge on whether he’s viewed as a populist reining in big business or a culture warrior. A Harvard-Harris poll this month found a majority of registered voters nationwide — and a vast majority of Republicans — siding with DeSantis in the showdown. The survey described DeSantis as attempting “to limit Disney’s autonomy” and remove “special tax status.”
But another poll, this one conducted this week by Reuters/Ipsos, found less than half of Republicans had a more favorable view of the governor because of his fight with Disney. And majorities of Democrats and Republicans said they were less likely to support a candidate who supported laws intended to punish companies for their positions on cultural issues.
The episode has been viewed as a weakness by his prospective rivals in the 2024 presidential primary field, in which polls show DeSantis has slipped. On his Truth Social platform, Donald Trump mocked DeSantis for being “absolutely destroyed by Disney.”
Chris Christie, the former governor of New Jersey, questioned whether DeSantis’ heavy-handed use of state power against the company undermined his claims of conservatism.
“Where are we headed here now that if you express disagreement in this country, the government is now going to punish you?” Christie said at an event last week.
In the campaign against Anheuser-Busch, a more conventional boycott without the political complications of government intervention, the backlash has had a clearer impact. In recent days, amid reports of tumbling sales, the company announced that the marketing executives responsible for the promotional partnership with the influencer, Dylan Mulvaney, were on leave.
Other companies that have incurred the anger of consumers on the right and left, however, have generally found the ire to be short-lived. Nike was vilified by Trump and others over its 2018 promotional campaign featuring former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who had faced outrage on the right for kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police shootings of unarmed Black people. Nike’s stock fell 3% after the company released its first Kaepernick ad, but within weeks, it had rebounded to a record high.
Nike’s campaign was a signal moment in the shifting politics of corporate America, which has long made common cause with the Republican Party on issues like taxes and regulation but has been drawn into increasingly regular conflict with the party over social issues.
In part, this is because corporations have become more socially liberal in their own policies, reflecting broader trends in public opinion on many issues. When the Human Rights Campaign, a prominent LGBTQ-rights organization, published its first Corporate Equality Index in 2002, only 13 companies received the top score for LGBTQ-friendliness. In 2022, 842 companies did.
“I think it’s something that’s important to their employees, to their customers and to their investors,” said Eric Bloem, the organization’s senior director for programs and corporate advocacy. “It’s all interrelated.”
In the 2010s, when newly Republican-controlled state legislatures began aggressively pursuing legislation targeting LGBTQ rights, corporations’ new social politics came into direct conflict with their old Chamber of Commerce allegiances and often outweighed them. Companies like PayPal, Deutsche Bank, Disney and Walmart canceled expansion plans, threatened boycotts and lobbied political leaders in several states over the new laws.
The business community’s shift accelerated after the police murder of George Floyd in 2020, which sent corporations as varied as Citigroup and McDonald’s scrambling to signal their solidarity with the emerging wave of racial justice protests.
Brands that have performed outreach to right-leaning Americans have been an exception rather than the rule, and they have been mostly smaller enterprises. But for Republican politicians like DeSantis, the party base’s discontent with the new corporate value-signaling has proved an opportunity. Last year, communications firm Edelman found in its annual Trust Barometer survey that for the first time, a majority of Republican respondents — and more Republicans than Democrats — said they did not trust business.
“The Republican Party was all about promoting the virtues of capitalism,” said Vivek Ramaswamy, an entrepreneur and Republican presidential candidate who has centered a criticism of corporate America’s social liberalism in his campaign.
As recently as a few years ago, he said, campaigning against big business was an awkward fit for the party. Now, he said, “we can understand what’s happened a little better.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Culture; LGBTQ rights; Employees; Boycotts; Political parties; Political campaigns; Governors; Presidential elections; Populism; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Breweries

Location: New York; United States--US; Florida

People: DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 42434 0; Name: Walt Disney World; NAICS: 524126, 713110

Identifier / keyword: Primaries And Caucuses; Florida; Christie, Christopher J; Iger, Robert A; Boards Of Directors; Presidential Election Of 2024; Executives And Management (Theory); Law And Legislation; Walmart Stores Inc; Shoes And Boots; Paypal; Ipsos Sa; American Family Assn; United States; Company Reports; Relocation Of Business; Corporations; Politics And Government; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); National Anthems; Lobbying And Lobbyists; United States Chamber Of Commerce; Deutsche Bank Ag; Nike Inc; Debates (Political); Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; National Football League; Boycotts; Citigroup Inc; United States Politics And Government; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Advertising And Marketing; State Legislatures; New Jersey; Democratic Party; Truth Social (Social Network); Human Rights Campaign; Polls And Public Opinion; Corporate Social Responsibility; New York State; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Generation Z; Employee Fringe Benefits; Beer; Mcdonald's Corporation; States (Us); Walt Disney Company; Kaepernick, Colin; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Television; Trump, Donald J; Desantis, Ron; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Mulvaney, Dylan (1996 ); United States National Anthem Protests (2016 ); Fringe Groups And Movements

Title: Man vs. Mouse: Ron DeSantis Finds Taking On Disney Is a Dicey Business

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 26, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-26T22:46:54Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2806250573

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-vs-mouse-ron-desantis-finds-taking-on-disney/docview/2806250573/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Outcry Over Inclusive Beer Ad Points to Peril for Big Business: [Correction]

Author: Homans, Charles

Publication info: Homans, Charles. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/outcry-over-inclusive-beer-ad-points-peril-big/docview/2805794161/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Bud Light's marketing effort with a transgender influencer has put it "in the center of the culture wars in a way that no company could possibly want to be," one observer said.
When she was named Anheuser-Busch's marketing vice president, Alissa Heinerscheid explained in a recent podcast interview, "I had this super clear mandate: We need to evolve and elevate this incredibly iconic brand." Doing that, she said, "means having a campaign that's truly inclusive."
But the limits of that mandate, and of how Anheuser-Busch defined "inclusive," became apparent in recent days, when the company announced that Ms. Heinerscheid and her boss, Daniel Blake, were on a leave of absence after a wave of right-wing outrage over a Bud Light marketing campaign that involved the transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney.
The backlash and subsequent scrambling provide a lesson in the newly unsettled politics of corporate America. In the past decade, major companies have leaned into liberal social politics that are increasingly anathema to their longstanding allies in the Republican Party and the consumers who vote for them.
Bud Light's trials this month have underscored the difficulty of straddling that divide. Ms. Heinerscheid's efforts reflected the company's aspirations of shoring up years of eroding market share among consumers in predominantly liberal urban areas. Ms. Heinerscheid did not respond to a request for comment.
The resulting furor, however, has led to double-digit sales declines in rural red-state markets, where a broader revolt against transgender rights has become central to Republican politics.
"They've stepped into a polarized America," said Benj Steinman, the editor of Beer Marketer's Insights, an industry trade publication. "They're in the center of the culture wars in a way that no company could possibly want to be."
On April 1, Ms. Mulvaney posted a video on her Instagram account showing off a custom Bud Light can featuring her face, which brand marketers had sent her as part of a March Madness promotion. A backlash and boycott quickly followed, driven by conservative media outlets and personalities like the musician Kid Rock, who posted an expletive-laden video on Instagram of himself mowing down several cases of the beer with a submachine gun.
Sales of Bud Light, the largest brand for Anheuser-Busch InBev, dropped 17 percent by value for the week ending April 15, compared with a year ago, according to one industry report. In a statement about the executives on leave, Anheuser said, "We have made some adjustments to streamline the structure of our marketing function to reduce layers so that our most senior marketers are more closely connected to every aspect of our brands' activities."
Despite the drop, Anheuser-Busch's stock has barely faltered and is currently near its high point in the past year, suggesting investors may believe the storm will be short-lived.
"Companies will not end the standard business practice of including diverse people in ads and marketing because a small number of loud, fringe anti-L.G.B.T.Q. activists make noise on social media," Sarah Kate Ellis, the president and chief executive of the L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy organization GLAAD, said in a statement. She noted that a 2020 survey the organization conducted in conjunction with Procter & Gamble found three-quarters of non-L.G.B.T.Q. Americans were comfortable seeing L.G.B.T.Q. people in ads.
The boycott of Bud Light has divided prominent Republicans and campaign organizations, too. Many have rushed toward the latest front in the culture war, including several 2024 Republican presidential hopefuls.
Vivek Ramaswamy, an entrepreneur and Republican presidential candidate who has campaigned on criticism of corporate progressivism, has raised money off the Bud Light episode, which he argues is emblematic of how top corporate executives are increasingly embracing liberal cultural values at odds with their companies' consumers. "I think what Budweiser did would otherwise be inexplicable but for a corporate culture created by some of those top-down forces in American life," he said.
In an interview this month with the right-wing media personality Benny Johnson, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, who is expected to enter the 2024 presidential race soon, said, "It's part of a larger thing where corporate America is trying to change our country, trying to change policy, trying to change culture."
But others in the party have urged restraint in light of Anheuser-Busch's Republican campaign donations, which led supporters of L.G.B.T.Q. rights to boycott the company as recently as two years ago.
On his podcast this month, Donald Trump Jr., the former president's son, cautioned against "destroying an American and iconic company for something like this," criticizing the Bud Light campaign but reminding his audience of its parent company's history of donating to Republican political campaigns.
After posting an online fund-raiser mocking Bud Light this month, the National Republican Congressional Committee, which received more than $ 464,000 in donations from Anheuser-Busch last year, took down the page within minutes, The Daily Beast reported.
The extent to which the backlash against Bud Light has affected the company's sales is unusual. Other companies that have in recent years found themselves the target of ire on the right over race and gender politics, like Nike and Disney, or on the left over support of former President Donald J. Trump and his stolen election claims, like Goya Foods, have paid little for it with consumers.
Americus Reed, a professor of marketing at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania who studies the intersection of social movements and consumer behavior, says that for many companies that have openly embraced racial justice politics and L.G.B.T.Q. rights in recent years, such gestures reflect an awareness that "it's another way to differentiate yourselves in a competitive marketplace."
He cited Ben & Jerry's ice cream, which has built brand identity and loyalty for decades in part by wearing its roots in the hippie enclave of Burlington, Vt., and its liberal politics on its sleeve. "Then suddenly that bucket is not just cream and sugar, it's something else," he said.
But Anson Frericks, who was Anheuser-Busch's president of U.S. operations until last year, said that logic didn't necessarily hold for his former company: a behemoth of a brand with a customer base that was historically divided more or less evenly between the two sides of the country's increasingly stark partisan divide, and with an identity associated more with Clydesdales, Americana and humorous Super Bowl commercials than social justice.
"There's an authenticity element to what Ben & Jerry's does," said Mr. Frericks, who is now co-founder and president with Mr. Ramaswamy of Strive Asset Management, an investment firm that has positioned itself against the trend toward socially and environmentally conscious investing.
"When you have these large corporations that have a historic brand identity, it just looks inauthentic when they're all of a sudden getting involved in these social campaigns." Anheuser-Busch, he argued, had "lost track of the consumer."
The company's backtracking, though, has left it with few defenders.
"This was their opportunity to say, 'We do stand with the L.G.B.T.Q. community and specifically the trans community,"' said Stacy Lentz, the chief executive of the Stonewall Inn Gives Back Initiative, the philanthropic foundation of the historic gay bar in Manhattan.
Ms. Lentz is also a co-owner of Stonewall Inn, which refused to sell Anheuser-Busch products during Pride weekend two years ago over the company's support of Republican lawmakers it considered anti-L.G.B.T.Q. She said the boycott had led to heartening conversations with representatives from the company, and she had been further encouraged by the promotion involving Ms. Mulvaney -- and dismayed by its retreat from it.
"They were going after the younger generation," she said. "But that's a really hard thing to do on a marketing level, to be all things to all people. And it failed massively."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: Conservatism; Marketing; Consumer behavior; Corporate culture; Brand identification; Consumers; Political activism; Brand names; Boycotts; Executives; Transgender persons; Market erosion; Advertising campaigns; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Consumer behavior Corporate culture Brand identification Consumers Brand names Executives Market erosion Advertising campaigns Breweries

Location: United States--US

People: Mulvaney, Dylan

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

Title: Outcry Over Inclusive Beer Ad Points to Peril for Big Business:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 26, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805794161

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/outcry-over-inclusive-beer-ad-points-peril-big/docview/2805794161/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

2 Anheuser-Busch Executives on Leave After Bud Light Promotion With Transgender Influencer: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holpuch, Amanda; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Holpuch, Amanda; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-anheuser-busch-executives-on-leave-after-bud/docview/2805794108/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Anheuser-Busch announced the moves after a conservative backlash over its association with the actress and social media personality Dylan Mulvaney.
The maker of Bud Light, Anheuser-Busch, said on Tuesday that two of its executives were on a leave of absence after the beer was featured in a social media promotion by a transgender influencer.
Bud Light's sales have slumped amid calls for a boycott because of the advertisement and criticism of the company's response to the backlash, which included targeted harassment of one of the executives who is on leave.
Alissa Heinerscheid, the vice president of marketing for Bud Light, and Daniel Blake, who oversees marketing for Anheuser-Busch's mainstream brands, were on leave, the company said in a statement.
"We have made some adjustments to streamline the structure of our marketing function to reduce layers so that our most senior marketers are more closely connected to every aspect of our brands' activities," Anheuser-Busch said in a statement. "These steps will help us maintain focus on the things we do best: brewing great beer for all consumers, while always making a positive impact in our communities and on our country."
The company's turmoil began on April 1, when a transgender influencer, Dylan Mulvaney, posted a video on her Instagram account to promote a Bud Light March Madness contest to her 1.8 million followers. In her post, which was less than a minute long, she said that the company had sent her a tallboy can of Bud Light with her face on it. An image of the can was edited into the video.
Within days, conservative celebrities and politicians called for a boycott of the brand. These calls were then followed by calls for a reverse boycott, or buycott, encouraging people to buy Bud Light to show support for the marketing.
Brendan Whitworth, the chief executive of Anheuser-Busch InBev, indirectly addressed the controversy in a statement on April 14.
"We never intended to be part of a discussion that divides people," he said. "We are in the business of bringing people together over a beer."
This did not subdue the criticisms of Bud Light, which grew to include complaints about its tepid response to the backlash, as well as the targeted harassment of Ms. Heinerscheid.
Critics of the advertisement with Ms. Mulvaney had found a podcast interview from March in which Ms. Heinerscheid said that some of Bud Light's previous advertisements had "fratty, sort of out-of-touch humor" and that the company would need to be more inclusive for its demographic to grow. As the podcast quotes circulated, The Daily Caller, The New York Post and The Daily Mail published photos of Ms. Heinerscheid at a party in college in 2006.
Ms. Heinerscheid and Mr. Blake could not immediately be reached for comment.
News of the executives' leaves began circulating after a report about Ms. Heinerscheid on Friday in Beer Business Daily, a trade publication, and another about her superior, Mr. Blake, on Sunday in The Wall Street Journal.
The controversy has had a negative effect on Bud Light's sales, which dropped 17 percent in the week ending on April 15, Beer Business Daily said.
In the United States, the beer industry is dominated by two large brewers that control 65 percent of beer sales: the Molson Coors Beverage Company, which owns well-known brands including Coors and Miller, and Anheuser-Busch InBev, which also owns Corona and Michelob.
A little more than 20 years ago, beer accounted for about half of alcohol sales in the country. Last year, that market share was about 42 percent, as sales of gin, vodka and other spirits have grown sharply in recent years.
Anheuser-Busch, which has introduced nonalcoholic and canned cocktail drinks, reported that its beer sales in North America fell 4 percent last year.
Bump Williams, who runs an alcoholic beverage consulting firm, said he was becoming concerned that the Bud Light controversy could result in a negative "halo effect" around Anheuser-Busch's other brands, many of which did see small dips in sales.
Harry Schuhmacher, the publisher of Beer Business Daily, said that as Bud Light sales have fallen, they rose almost dollar for dollar for its competitors Miller Lite and Coors Light.
Mr. Schuhmacher said that the situation was "terrible" in the short-term for Bud Light, but it was likely to have less of an effect on the company's long-term business because the brand was already in decline. "This just steepens that curve of decline that was already happening," he said.
He said that the popularity of different beer brands tends to vary by generation and Bud Light is experiencing the slump in that cycle.
"It's been going on since Prohibition was repealed," he said. "And brands cycle through about every 20 to 30 years."
He said that there could be a "silver lining" for the company since the controversy has attracted so much attention from the media.
"They seemingly took a stand although they didn't really back it up that well," Mr. Schuhmacher said. "They threw it out there and hid, which I think is unfair to Dylan and unfair to the trans community a little bit."
The criticism of Bud Light arose as Republican state lawmakers are proposing legislation that seeks to regulate the lives of young transgender people, restrict drag shows in a way that could broadly encompass performances by transgender people, and require schools to out transgender students to their parents.
Ms. Mulvaney has been documenting her transition on TikTok, where she has more than 10.8 million followers. In March, she celebrated one year of her "Days of Girlhood" series.
Anheuser-Busch said earlier this month that it "works with hundreds of influencers across our brands as one of many ways to authentically connect with audiences across various demographics" and gave Ms. Mulvaney a personalized can with her face on it to "celebrate a personal milestone."
Ms. Mulvaney has not responded to the Bud Light uproar, but she addressed the hostility she has faced in an interview on the "Onward With Rosie O'Donnell" podcast that was released amid the backlash. She is "an easy target," she said, "because I'm still new to this."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Marketing; Beer; Social networks; Transgender persons; Breweries; Brand names; Boycotts; Executives; Advertising campaigns; Leaves of absence; Conservatism

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks Breweries Brand names Executives Advertising campaigns Leaves of absence

Location: United States--US

People: Mulvaney, Dylan

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110; Name: Anheuser-Busch InBev; NAICS: 312120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/25/business/bud-light-dylan-mulvaney.html

Title: 2 Anheuser-Busch Executives on Leave After Bud Light Promotion With Transgender Influencer:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805794108

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-anheuser-busch-executives-on-leave-after-bud/docview/2805794108/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside the Hope-Filled Pods of 'Love Is Blind': [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Jacobs, Julia; Stevens, Matt

Publication info: Jacobs, Julia; Stevens, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-hope-filled-pods-love-is-blind/docview/2801437255/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: SANTA CLARITA, Calif. -- Peahens choose peacocks with more elaborate feathers, earthworms mate based on size, and baboons judge on hierarchy, but humans, as more intellectually evolved creatures, have been socialized instead to seek out love.
For a tiny subset of the species, this mating ritual involves 10 days on a television set in Greater Los Angeles, where participants sit alone in 12-by-14-foot rooms listening to the disembodied voices of potential mates discuss such topics as their ideal number of offspring.
That is the basis for "Love Is Blind," the voyeuristic Netflix reality series built around buzzwords, booze and mild sensory deprivation that released its Season 4 finale on Friday and is set to air a live reunion special on Sunday. On the show, 30 singles sign up to date each other, separated inside these rooms -- known as "pods" -- with their conversations fed through speakers. They don't see whom they're talking to until they decide to get engaged -- a commitment that also comes with a hastily arranged wedding where they can say "I do" or walk away.
If it all sounds rushed, chaotic, a bit unhinged, the show's creator, Chris Coelen, understands. Brandon Riegg, the Netflix executive who greenlighted the pitch about five years ago, described the idea with a synonym for bat guano, and he recalled telling Coelen that he would be lucky to get even one couple out of it.
Despite the naysayers, Coelen felt confident that people would get engaged. After all, contestants on his show "Married at First Sight" had been marrying strangers for years.
"People want to find love," he said in an interview last month on the "Love Is Blind" set, where production was beginning on a new season, "and they're willing to do some pretty wild things to find it."
The show premiered in February 2020, taking off as viewers were adjusting to their own versions of pandemic-mandated pod life, and has continued to captivate audiences. More than 30 million Netflix subscribers watched during the first four weeks after its premiere, the company reported, and Season 4, which kicked off in March, topped the previous seasons' opening weekends by hours watched. Last year, according to Nielsen, "Love Is Blind" was the eighth most-watched original streaming series in the United States, ahead of "The Crown" and the "Lord of the Rings" spinoff "The Rings of Power." Versions of the show based in Japan and Brazil have already been released, with U.K. and Swedish adaptations in the works.
Kim Kardashian, Lizzo, Billie Eilish and Daniel Radcliffe are among the show's celebrity fans, and contestants have built gigantic social media followings, with one married participant from Season 1, Lauren Speed-Hamilton, reaching 2.5 million followers on Instagram. The series has also fueled cottage industries on TikTok of amateur detectives digging into the contestants' back stories and of therapists analyzing the relationship dynamics onscreen. At times, "Love Is Blind" has prompted musings on our fraying social fabric, with commentators declaring that the show "speaks to the state of modern romance" and "holds a mirror to a reality we'd rather ignore."
For Netflix, its appeal was more fundamental. It matched the streamer's ethos around unscripted programming, Riegg said: relatable and optimistic.
"If you look at some of the most beloved and established unscripted franchises, they've been running for a very long time," he added. "And I don't think there's any reason that ours can't do the same."
'Whatever happens, happens.'
So how did "Love Is Blind," with its absurd conceit, manage to position itself as the closest thing to "The Bachelor" for the cable-less generation?
Coelen said it's because the show puts it all out there, revealing contestants' explosive dramatics and romantic indifference without coaxing anything out of them.
Producers have included footage of one participant, Andrew Liu, appearing to apply eye drops to simulate tears for the camera after he was dumped in Season 3. One couple in the current season had enough of each other and split before they got to the altar. And when Shake Chatterjee, from Season 2, tried to suss out what his dates looked like by asking if he could feasibly carry them on his shoulders, the producers said they never considered intervening.
The hosts are a married couple, Vanessa and Nick Lachey -- the latter of whom was the subject of his own early-aughts reality series when he married Jessica Simpson. They rarely interact with participants, occasionally dropping in during the season and serving as therapist-like mediators during the reunions.
"We just watch. We involve ourselves in nothing," said Ally Simpson (no relation to Jessica), one of the show's executive producers. During production, she sits next to Coelen in the control room, where they monitor as many as 10 dates happening simultaneously.
But the concept of authenticity gets complicated when the location for the dates is a 68,000-square-foot studio next to an Amazon warehouse, where dozens of crew members zip around with walkie talkies and 81 cameras pan and zoom to catch every blush and giggle. (Contestants stay in hotels overnight, though the napping and cooking can sometimes make it appear as though they're living on set à la "The Real World.")
Inside the two single-sex lounges where the singles congregate, the plants are plastic, a digital fire roars onscreen, and those metallic goblets that have become the show's mascots are adhered to the shelves so that guests don't knock them over.
When Kwame Appiah, a tech worker who appears on the current season, says of a woman he has never seen, "I've just been smitten for a really long time," he means six days.
Then there's the influencer industrial complex. In the three years since the show's debut, cast members with new followings have promoted Smirnoff Spicy Tamarind vodka, Bud Light hard seltzer and Fenty lipstick, as well as yogurt and laxatives.
When it comes to choosing a cast, the producers say they try to weed out those seeking social media fame or joining on a whim, but if such types slip into the roster, Coelen said, he believes they still tend to become invested in the process.
"We build the machinery, and whatever happens, happens," he said.
The machinery starts with Donna Driscoll, the show's head of casting, who has been with Coelen's production company, Kinetic Content, since the second season of "Married at First Sight." Interested singles apply online, but Driscoll's team also seeks people out on social media and at bars, grocery stores and church groups.
A third-party company conducts background checks and psychological evaluations, and the casting team creates what are called "compatibility grids," a spreadsheet listing key characteristics, including the desire to have children. They are effectively trying to "stack the deck," Coelen said, so that each person comes in with some compatibility, at least on paper, with others. (If love really is blind, it is also heavily vetted.)
On the show, the contestants describe being at their wits' end with dating norms of the 2020s, which tend to involve more swiping on touchscreens than IRL spontaneity.
"My parents are like, 'Why don't you just go meet a guy at a bar?"' said Chelsea Griffin, a speech-language pathologist from Seattle who is on the current season. "Who does that anymore?"
Instead, with her phone confiscated, she met a guy at a production facility where a maze of dark hallways leads to pods and to a room where contestants sit for one-on-one interviews with a blurred backdrop positioned behind them.
At the start of filming, budding romances begin with 10-minute speed dates, lengthening each day until the most lovestruck couples chat for hours, sometimes lingering until 3 a.m.
"The rate at which you go in this experience, it's hard for my mom to fathom. It's hard for my brother to fathom," Griffin said. "I could sit and try to articulate and explain the entire thing, and people still wouldn't get it."
Members of the production team listen on headsets, logging moments like when someone says "I love you" or tears flow. They move contestant headshots around a bulletin board as they pair off and break up, like detectives on a crime procedural.
At the end of the day, the contestants rank their dates on paper. The team then uses a variation on a Nobel Prize-winning algorithm, created by two mathematicians in the 1960s, to find a dating schedule in which everyone has matches. For the first four seasons, Simpson and Coelen organized the data by hand to determine the next day's lineup of dates, but more recently, Simpson plugs the rankings into computer software.
By day seven, the men are able to pick out engagement rings provided by the show. By day nine, after couples have typically spent about 30 total hours dating -- albeit in separate rooms -- some of them pop the question. If the answer is a yes, they finally meet.
Then, it's time to plan the wedding. Singles have been choosing among suitors they couldn't see as far back as the 1960s (see "The Dating Game"), but "Love Is Blind" makes marriage its clear, televised conclusion.
"You think about reality shows as being these zany, deviant enterprises, but when it comes right down to it, they promulgate some of our most conservative values," said Danielle Lindemann, a sociologist who wrote a book about reality television. "Ultimately, this show is about heterosexual coupling that ends in marriage."
Success, and scrutiny
The inherent limits of the show have opened it to critique. Though "Love Is Blind" might be more diverse than some reality shows in terms of race and body type, those selected for the "experiment" tend to be conventionally attractive heterosexual men and women in their 20s and 30s.
Speed-Hamilton, who has gone on to co-host a podcast for Netflix about its reality series, accused the show last season of "cutting all the Black women" after the pods portion, adding that most of the couples seemed "forced" and only established "for entertainment purposes."
There have been other musings that this season of the show is falling into typical reality TV traps, zooming in on "mean girl" drama and casting people whose true intentions some viewers question. There have also been suggestions that the show has edited footage to ramp up the drama. Jackelina Bonds, a dental assistant from this season, wrote on Instagram that footage had been reordered so that it appears she went on a date before she broke up with her fiancé, when in fact, the date was afterward.
Coelen said the production team works to portray the "accurate essence of each person's journey." He said the show focuses on building a diverse pool of participants from the start and chooses to follow the engagements that seem most genuine. Any "mean girl" behavior happened without their influence, he said.
One of the most vocal skeptics of the show's authenticity has been a former contestant, Jeremy Hartwell, who was not closely followed during his season. He filed a class-action lawsuit last year against Netflix and Kinetic Content, saying that the defendants cut off the cast from the outside world, plied them with unlimited alcohol and withheld food and sleep with the objective of leading the cast to make "manipulated decisions for the benefit of the show's entertainment value."
The crux of the lawsuit was an objection to the show's payment structure at the time, which, the complaint said, involved a $ 1,000 stipend per filming week with a maximum of $ 8,000 in possible earnings. His lawsuit argued that the participants had been "willfully misclassified" as independent contractors rather than as employees who were entitled to minimum wage, overtime pay and various labor protections.
Chantal McCoy Payton, a lawyer for Hartwell, declined to comment, citing the continuing litigation.
Lawyers for Kinetic Content, which has said that the claims are without merit, asserted in court documents that Hartwell had been part of the show for only six days and did not qualify as an employee. Netflix lawyers argued that Hartwell had brought forward "extreme allegations" because he was "upset" about not being chosen by another contestant.
Coelen declined to discuss the lawsuit, but his description of the show's process was at odds with Hartwell's claims.
Daters are provided meals and can order food to the pods, he said, and while the alcohol supply is ample (the fridge in the lounge is stocked with champagne, beer, wine and hard seltzer), everyone decides for themselves whether they want to drink. There are two psychologists on the set, he noted, and the show offers to cover postproduction therapy for participants.
Although the producers say they don't interfere in relationships, Coelen, who is 54 and has been married for 16 years, said that they do suggest that the couples talk about important subjects like finances, parenting and religion, comparing the producers' level of influence to Pre-Cana, a course for couples preparing to be married by the Roman Catholic Church. For instance, in Season 1, production team members encouraged one participant, Amber Pike, to tell her fiancé, Matt Barnett, that she had about $ 20,000 in student debt. The conversation did not go particularly well, but the pair got married anyway.
"We really get invested in these relationships," said Simpson, 45, who has been married for six years.
Coelen has tried to sell similarly gimmicky dating shows before. In 2017, his production company released an American version of a show called "Kiss Bang Love" in which singles met each other by kissing blindfolded. In "The Spouse House," 14 singles bent on marriage moved in together. Both shows lasted only one season.
With "Love Is Blind," the numbers are starting to add up. From the first three seasons of the show, 17 couples came out of the pods engaged, six got legally married on the show, and four are still together.
In an interview last month, Brett Brown, a design director at Nike who got married in the episode released on Friday, said it is those early successes that keep viewers watching, curious to find out if this bizarre dating formula can spit out happy couples.
Brown acknowledged that some participants might exaggerate their feelings in exchange for the global attention that comes with being a reality TV star.
But not him.
"I can only speak from my experience," he said, "and I know that I was there for the right reason."
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Photograph Right and bottom, Chris Coelen, the creator of "Love Is Blind," with Ally Simpson, an executive producer; above, the show's lounge for male contestants; and one of the "pods" in which contestants are filmed, left and below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE LEE TAETE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Left, a crew member affixing goblets (which have become the show's mascots) to a shelf so guests won't knock them over; ample sustenance in the men's lounge. Above from top: Shake Chatterjee, a contestant on Season 2; and a contestant who is about to meet a potential spouse face to face. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE LEE TAETE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; PATRICK WYMORE/NETFLIX; NETFLIX) (AR16-AR17) This article appeared in print on page AR16, AR17.

Subject: Love; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/12/arts/television/love-is-blind-netflix-reality-show.html

Title: Inside the Hope-Filled Pods of 'Love Is Blind':   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437255

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-hope-filled-pods-love-is-blind/docview/2801437255/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Illuminating A Bud Light Controversy: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holpuch, Amanda

Publication info: Holpuch, Amanda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/illuminating-bud-light-controversy/docview/2801090139/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After Dylan Mulvaney promoted the beer on Instagram, well-known conservatives tried to start a boycott. Experts say the controversy will not hurt the brand in the long run, and may help.
Some conservative commentators and celebrities have called for a boycott of Bud Light after the beer was featured in a social media promotion by a transgender influencer, Dylan Mulvaney.
Ms. Mulvaney is popular on TikTok, where she has more than 10.8 million followers and has been documenting her transition online. The controversy began on April 1, when she posted a video on her Instagram account, where she has 1.8 million followers, to promote a Bud Light contest.
Ms. Mulvaney, 26, celebrated one full year of her "Days of Girlhood" series in March with a live show at Rockefeller Center called "Dylan Mulvaney's Day 365 Live!"
Her Bud Light promotional post is less than a minute long and is mostly about a $ 15,000 giveaway that the company sponsored during March Madness. She mentions that the company sent her a tallboy can with her face on it to celebrate the 365-day milestone.
Ms. Mulvaney says her newfound fame has made her an 'easy target.'
Ms. Mulvaney has become more popular in the year since she created "Days of Girlhood." In October, she spoke with President Biden at the White House about transgender rights.
This success has met with personal attacks from public figures, including Senator Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, and Caitlyn Jenner, the Republican former Olympian and transgender woman whose politics have made her a target of criticism from members of the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
Ms. Mulvaney has not spoken directly about the Bud Light boycott, but she addressed the hostility she has faced in an interview on the "Onward With Rosie O'Donnell" podcast that was released on Tuesday. She is "an easy target," she said, "because I'm still new to this."
"I think going after a trans woman that's been doing this for like 20 years is a lot more difficult," she said.
She added, "But what is their goal?"
A representative for Ms. Mulvaney did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Supporters of a boycott have not said what they hope to gain.
The calls for a boycott have not included a specific demand. And some of the most prominent voices backing it have attacked the transgender community in the past, including the musician Kid Rock, who posted a video of himself shooting a stack of Bud Light cases this month.
The criticism of Bud Light, amid other complaints about brand partnerships with transgender people, comes as Republican state lawmakers are proposing legislation that seeks to regulate the lives of young transgender people, restrict drag shows in a way that could include performances by transgender people, and require schools to out transgender students to their parents.
For brands, social media controversies can be opportunities, experts say.
The investment website Seeking Alpha said that the stock price of Anheuser-Busch InBev, which makes Bud Light, was experiencing some volatility, but predicted that the effects would not be long-term because "news events often have an outsized short-term impact on share prices, and then fade away."
Anna Tuchman, associate professor of marketing at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, has researched boycotts, including the calls for people to stop buying Goya Foods products in 2020 after the company's president praised President Donald J. Trump. Her research and other similar studies have found that such efforts tend to be short-lived and don't have a long-term effect.
Professor Tuchman said that, while people may be willing to change their behavior for a few weeks, it is much harder to convince people to change their long-term behavior.
Another obstacle in boycotts is finding replacement products.
Anheuser-Busch sells more than 100 brands of beer in the United States and is the largest beer brewer in the world.
One supporter of the boycott, Representative Dan Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, posted a video online to show that his fridge did not have Bud Light, but it did have beer from Karbach Brewing Company, which is also owned by Anheuser-Busch.
A "buycott" is when people buy a product to protest a boycott against it. Professor Tuchman found that during the Goya boycott the company's sales rose by 22 percent over two weeks before falling back to the baseline.
After the country musician Travis Tritt said that he would stop including Bud Light in his tour rider, Kevin John Wasserman, the guitarist for the Offspring who goes by Noodles, said that the band would include Anheuser-Busch products in its rider.
What's in it for Bud Light?
Anheuser-Busch said in a statement that it "works with hundreds of influencers across our brands as one of many ways to authentically connect with audiences across various demographics."
"From time to time we produce unique commemorative cans for fans and for brand influencers, like Dylan Mulvaney," the statement said. "This commemorative can was a gift to celebrate a personal milestone and is not for sale to the general public."
L.G.B.T.Q. people in the United States have an estimated $ 1.1 trillion in annual purchasing power, according to a 2019 report by LGBT Capital, a financial services company.
Sarah Kate Ellis, the president and chief executive of the L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy organization GLAAD, said in an emailed statement that marketing featuring L.G.B.T.Q. people would continue. "Companies will not end the standard business practice of including diverse people in ads and marketing because a small number of loud, fringe anti-L.G.B.T.Q. activists make noise on social media," she said.
Americus Reed, a professor of marketing at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, said companies usually weigh the economic and moral effects of brand partnerships that some may see as political.
As part of that calculus, he said, companies recognize that a partnership could cause them to lose some customers, but bet that it is worth attracting new, and potentially more loyal, customers who value the company for taking a stand.
Alissa Heinerscheid, vice president of marketing for Bud Light, said in an interview before the boycott that the brand needed to be more inclusive.
"The brand is in decline," Ms. Heinerscheid said on the "Make Yourself at Home" podcast in March. "It's been in decline for a really long time. And if we do not attract young drinkers to come and drink this brand, there will be no future for Bud Light."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Marketing; Presidents; Beer; Boycotts; Social networks; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks Breweries

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/14/business/bud-light-boycott.html

Title: Illuminating A Bud Light Controversy:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801090139

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/illuminating-bud-light-controversy/docview/2801090139/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jesse Treviño, Chicano Artist Whose Muse Was San Antonio, Dies at 76

Author: Williams, Alex

Publication info: Williams, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jesse-treviño-chicano-artist-whose-muse-was-san/docview/2781859291/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Jesse Treviño, a lauded Mexican American artist who lost the use of his dominant right arm in a land mine explosion as a soldier in the Vietnam War, but who went on to conjure vast murals and dramatic paintings with his left arm that were displayed in three presidential libraries and the Smithsonian Institution, died Feb. 13 in San Antonio. He was 76.
The death, in a hospice facility, was confirmed by Anthony Head, the author of the 2019 book “Spirit: The Life and Art of Jesse Treviño.” Head said that the cause had not been determined, but that Treviño had been hospitalized for pneumonia in recent months and had had cancer but was in remission.
Treviño became famous in San Antonio and beyond for his large-scale paintings depicting the hard realities and soaring aspirations of the Chicano culture of his home city. Though they were rendered in a photorealistic style, they were nevertheless exuberant, even dreamlike.
His art is hard to miss; “Spirit of Healing,” for instance, which portrays a boy holding a dove as an angel watches over him, is a nine-story mural made from hand-cut tiles that adorns the exterior of the Children’s Hospital of San Antonio.
“San Antonio was his muse and his canvas,” Head said by phone. “The Hispanic population on the West Side, and the artists who were from there, had never been seen in museums and galleries before, so he set out to do just that.”
While Treviño once had ambitions to become a globe-trotting artist, he ultimately found the inspiration he needed at home.
“All my time as a kid, absorbing the things in my community that were eventually going to be a big part of my painting — there is so much there,” he was quoted as saying in Head’s book. “I could work the rest of my life and never do it all.”
Those efforts were certainly recognized locally. Mayor Ron Nirenberg of San Antonio referred to Treviño as “an American hero” on Twitter after his death. Texas Monthly magazine called “Señora Dolores Treviño,” a painting of his mother, “one of the best paintings of an artist’s mother since Whistler’s.”
But Treviño’s reputation ultimately spread far beyond his home state. In 1987, he presented a painting of the Alamo to President Ronald Reagan in the Oval Office. In 1998, Hillary Clinton, then the first lady, invited him to an international exhibition in Santiago, Chile, as the American artist representative. His work is in the collections of the presidential libraries of Lyndon B. Johnson, George H.W. Bush and Reagan.
One of his most celebrated works was “Mi Vida” (“My Life”), a haunting 14-by-8-foot autobiographical mural that he painted on a black wall of his bedroom in 1972, while still mired in depression and anger over his gruesome war injuries.
The painting, a swirl of objects including a Purple Heart medal, a pill, a can of Budweiser beer, a pack of cigarettes and an image of the artist in combat fatigues, appeared in a 2019 exhibition at the Smithsonian American Art Museum, “Artists Respond: American Art and the Vietnam War, 1965-1975.” (The show also presented works by Yoko Ono, Edward Kienholz, Claes Oldenburg and others.)
“Here you see the personal and political meet,” critic Holland Cotter of The New York Times wrote of “Mi Vida.”
Jesus Treviño was born Dec. 24, 1946, in Monterrey, Mexico, the ninth of 12 children of Juan Treviño, a mechanic and truck driver, and Dolores (Campos) Treviño, a homemaker. He adopted the name Jesse when he entered elementary school.
The family moved to San Antonio when he was 4, and two years later his drawing of a dove won a contest sponsored by the Witte Museum in San Antonio. He continued to take home art prizes throughout high school, and after graduation he earned a scholarship to the Art Students League of New York. He was studying there when he got his draft notice in 1966. He served in Vietnam.
While on a mission in the Mekong Delta in Vietnam in February 1967, Treviño was racing to board a helicopter under sniper fire when he stepped on a mine. The blast sent shrapnel through his torso and limbs and hurtled him into the air before he landed face down in a rice paddy.
“He was thinking he was going to die,” Head said. “He began bargaining with God to live, and when he was on the chopper he received morphine and began to have these visions of San Antonio and his family. With this combination of trauma, shock and the medicine, he asked himself, ‘If I had a second chance, what would I do?’ And it was, ‘I would paint the people and the places of San Antonio, my home.’”
The concept seemed far more daunting after Treviño was admitted to a military hospital at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio and his right arm, already paralyzed from a severed nerve, was amputated below the elbow.
At first, embittered and racked with anxiety, Treviño had no interest in painting. As he told Head, he felt that he was being punished: “I thought God gave me all this ability to paint and all that. Now I can’t do anything.”
Eventually a fellow soldier, Armando Albarran, who was also from San Antonio and was rehabilitating after losing his legs, began goading Treviño to reclaim his artistic talent, even without the use of his right hand.
Treviño eventually began to rediscover his skills, and in 1968 he enrolled in San Antonio College. There he came under the tutelage of artist Mel Casas, who brought him into an activist-minded Chicano art collective called Con Safo. In 1974, he earned a bachelor’s degree in art from Our Lady of the Lake College (now University), where he majored in art and minored in Spanish.
Treviño is survived by his children from several marriages, Carolina Treviño, Jessica Treviño Brodman, and Jesse and David Treviño; a stepdaughter, Joanna Deleon Colonna; two grandchildren; a sister, Alicia Treviño Rodriguez; and his brothers, Ramiro, John, Robert and Ernest.
In his later years, though Treviño was still plagued by physical ailments (he dealt with throat cancer in 2012, and, near the end of his life, had a tumor removed from his jaw), he remained undaunted.
“Your work is forever,” he said in 2013 in an interview for Head’s book. “It seems like I got momentum and I don’t have limits.”
“The bottom line,” he added, “is that I’d like to think at the end of the show the real art continues.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Hispanic Americans; Painting; Visual artists; Deaths

People: Trevino, Jesse

Identifier / keyword: United States; Ono, Yoko; Head, Anthony; Johnson, Lyndon Baines; Cotter, Holland; Texas Monthly; Art Students League; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Twitter; New York Times; Chile; Houston (Tex); Texas; Mekong River; Nirenberg, Ron (1977 ); Monterrey (Mexico); Santiago (Chile); Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Kienholz, Edward; Bush, George; Mexico; Smithsonian Institution; Smit hsonian American Art Museum; Trevino, Jesse (1946 2023); Vietnam; Oldenburg, Claes; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Amputation; Children And Childhood; Libraries And Librarians; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Hospitals; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Right Handedness; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Magazines; Explosions (Accidental); Education (K 12); Defense And Military Forces; Veterans; Scholarships And Fellowships; Accidents And Safety; Politics And Government; Names, Organizational; Colleges And Universities; Books And Literature; Deaths (Fatalities); Presidential Election Of 1968; Nineteen Hundred Sixties; Murals; Vietnam War; Art; Mexican Americans; Museums

Title: Jesse Treviño, Chicano Artist Whose Muse Was San Antonio, Dies at 76

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-03 @ 20:22

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2781859291

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jesse-treviño-chicano-artist-whose-muse-was-san/docview/2781859291/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Howard Bragman, 66, A Publicist Who Shone In Times of Crisis, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Genzlinger, Neil

Publication info: Genzlinger, Neil. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/howard-bragman-66-publicist-who-shone-times/docview/2776904152/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He was called in to do damage control for celebrities in a negative spotlight, but his specialty was working with gay stars, athletes and others.
Howard Bragman, a publicist who, like many in his line of work, often helped the famous and the reluctantly famous navigate embarrassing or volatile spotlight moments, but who also had a specialty of advising clients who were coming out of the closet, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 66.
The cause was leukemia, his family said in a statement.
Mr. Bragman was a familiar face in news coverage and on television shows like "Good Morning America," whether talking about particular clients or about the art of public relations and damage control. Over his career he handled plenty of garden-variety public relations chores -- promoting products, announcing engagements or deaths -- but clients often made use of his services because they were in crisis mode.
In 2008, when Ed McMahon, Johnny Carson's onetime sidekick on "The Tonight Show," faced possible foreclosure on his multimillion-dollar home in Beverly Hills, Calif., Mr. Bragman was there to help handle the news media. In 2010, when a JetBlue flight attendant named Steven Slater had an onboard meltdown that went viral and landed him in court, Mr. Slater engaged Mr. Bragman to deal with the fallout. In 2017, after Anthony Scaramucci was dismissed as Donald J. Trump's White House communications director just a few tumultuous days into the job, he hired Mr. Bragman to help orchestrate his political afterlife.
Often in those situations, Mr. Bragman's answers to journalists' questions were more deflective than informative -- "Not in the habit of confirming my clients or their strategies" was his oft-quoted response when asked what specifically he was telling Mr. Scaramucci -- although behind the scenes he would advise clients on things like which interview requests to accept and what to say during those interviews.
But for another type of client, a gay man or woman going public, Mr. Bragman was more open and more of an activist. He was gay himself -- "the gay guru," he was sometimes called -- and he was both a counselor and an admirer of actors, athletes and others who were coming out.
"These people are heroes, because coming out is the single most important act any gay person can do," he told NPR's "Morning Edition" in 2011. "Because every bit of research that's ever been done says if you know more gay and lesbian people, you are going to support our rights."
Among the celebrity clients he worked with in this capacity was Dick Sargent, who some two decades after he played the husband of Elizabeth Montgomery's character on the classic sitcom "Bewitched" announced on National Coming Out Day in 1991 that he was gay.
In 2009, when Meredith Baxter, who as a star of "Family Ties" in the 1980s had been one of America's best-known TV moms, started getting inquiries from the tabloid press after going on a lesbian cruise, her manager advised her to contact Mr. Bragman, who gave her blunt advice.
"We have to take control of the story or you will have no say in it at all," she recalled him saying in her autobiography, "Untied: A Memoir of Family, Fame and Floundering" (2011). He booked her on NBC's "Today," where she told the world she was a lesbian. Mr. Bragman, she said, gave her the courage to go through with the interview.
"He said as soon as it's done, you'll be free," Ms. Baxter told NPR. "And we walked out that door of NBC studios in December, and it was the most freeing thing I had ever experienced."
Mr. Bragman performed a similar service for the country singer Chely Wright in 2010, when, though well into the gay liberation era, a gay performer in country music was still a rarity.
"Historically, country music would rather an artist be a drunk -- they even encourage that one," Ms. Wright told The Los Angeles Times at the time. "They would rather you were a drug addict than be gay."
Mr. Bragman also worked with the former N.B.A. player John Amaechi when, in 2007, he came out, and with Michael Sam, an N.F.L. prospect, when he announced in 2014 that he was gay. Mr. Sam would become, in a brief pro career, the first publicly gay player in the National Football League.
Howard Benjamin Bragman was born on Feb. 24, 1956, in Flint, Mich. His father, Leonard, had an insurance company and later a real estate business, and his mother, Myrna (Wolin) Bragman, was a homemaker who later worked with her husband in real estate.
"I was fat and Jewish and gay in Flint, Michigan," Mr. Bragman told NPR. "And that makes you a bit of a Martian, because there's not a lot of peers, there's not a lot of role models, to really look to."
He earned a bachelor's degree in journalism and psychology from the University of Michigan in 1978 and soon landed a job at a small public relations concern in Chicago whose clients included Anheuser-Busch, the maker of Budweiser and other beers.
Mr. Bragman was soon turning up in newspaper articles. When Stevie Wonder and Kai Millard Morris had a child, Mandla, in 1979, it was Mr. Bragman who announced that the newborn weighed 7 pounds, 8 ounces. When Tom Earhart, a snowmobile racer sponsored by Budweiser, set a new speed record of 148.6 miles per hour in 1982, Mr. Bragman told the world.
He was a founder, in 1989, of Bragman Nyman Cafarelli, which quickly became a major public relations player. One of his first acts there was to offer pro bono help to Joseph Steffan, who had been kicked out of the United States Naval Academy in 1987 after acknowledging that he was gay and who in late 1988 sued for reinstatement. (The suit was ultimately unsuccessful).
"Sometimes causes need publicists, too," Mr. Bragman told The Los Angeles Times in 1990. "I felt it was important that he have all the help he can in fighting his battle."
Mr. Bragman, who lived in Los Angeles, is survived by his husband, Mike Maimone, whom he married this year, and a brother, Alan.
Bragman Nyman Cafarelli was sold in 2001 to Interpublic Group. Mr. Bragman, after teaching public relations for five years at the University of Southern California, founded a new firm, Fifteen Minutes PR, in 2005, and another, La Brea Media, in 2019.
In 2008, he put his public relations knowledge into a book, "Where's My Fifteen Minutes: Get Your Company, Your Cause or Yourself the Recognition You Deserve" (written with Michael Levin). In the book, he cited the biblical story of Moses, who was reluctant to deliver the messages God wanted delivered, and so God told him to bring along Aaron, his brother, who was more eloquent and could do the talking.
"So a lot of us in public relations believe that Aaron is actually the first practitioner of our craft," Mr. Bragman wrote, "thus making public relations the third oldest profession, slightly behind spycraft and prostitution."
And, he added, "we get accused of both of those as well."
Photograph Howard Bragman at his office in Los Angeles in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN HIVELY/LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Mr. Bragman's clients included the actress Meredith Baxter, above left, who told the world that she was a lesbian during an appearance on the "Today" show in 2009; and the former N.B.A. player John Amaechi, above right, who came out as gay in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER KRAMER/NBCUNIVERSAL, VIA GETTY IMAGES; CHRIS GOODNEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) This article appeared in print on page A25.

Subject: Public relations; Gays & lesbians; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Public relations

People: Bragman, Howard

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/15/arts/howard-bragman-dead.html

Title: Howard Bragman, 66, A Publicist Who Shone In Times of Crisis, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.25

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2776904152

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/howard-bragman-66-publicist-who-shone-times/docview/2776904152/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Can the N.F.L.'s Team Ownership Rules Survive Huge Valuations?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren; Kessler, Sarah; Warner, Bernhard

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren; Kessler, Sarah; Warner, Bernhard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-n-f-l-s-team-ownership-rules-survive-huge/docview/2775520802/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Other sports leagues have changed their rules to allow private equity firms to invest. But so far, the N.F.L. has resisted.
If you watch the Super Bowl on Sunday, you will probably watch it live. That's becoming increasingly rare in today's era of cord cutting, and it's one of the reasons valuations of football teams -- along with those in nearly every other sport -- have skyrocketed. With teams no longer viewed as merely trophies, the money has flowed in from investors who are rushing to own a piece of the action.
As valuations rise, more potential team buyers are being priced out. Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League have responded by changing their rules to allow private equity firms to invest. (The N.B.A. now allows sovereign wealth money, too.) The question on every sports insider's mind is when -- and if -- the National Football League will follow.
Football teams are the "Rolls-Royce of American sports leagues," said Salvatore Galatioto, whose company has advised investors on buying and selling professional sports franchises. They bring in the most money, and they have, on average, the highest valuations -- which are quickly growing, as sale prices over the past decade make clear:
Buffalo Bills (2014): $ 1.4 billion.
Carolina Panthers (2018): $ 2.22 billion.
Denver Broncos (2022): $ 4.65 billion.
The N.F.L. requires that an incoming general partner buy at least a 30 percent stake in the team. It also limits the amount of debt a buyer can use to finance the deal to $ 1 billion. That means the Washington Commanders, which hired Bank of America late last year to explore a sale, would need a buyer with about $ 1 billion in cash to match the Broncos' valuation in 2022. Given the team's popularity, and because Washington is a bigger market than Denver, any deal would very likely value the team much higher than that.
But N.F.L. owners aren't flinging open the doors. Many have passed ownership down from generation to generation. It's a close-knit bunch, and one that could be shaken by allowing institutional investors into its ownership group. "When you bring in sort of more anonymous entities, or at least ones that have larger swaths of decision makers, you create some reduction in that feel that this is an exclusive club," said Alex Michael, a managing director at LionTree. Ryan Nece, a former N.F.L. linebacker and co-founder of Next Play Capital, told DealBook that, "given my conversations with N.F.L. team owners, it doesn't appear to be something they are considering embracing today."
Closed ownership affects more than deal flow. The lack of diversity among owners, who are overwhelmingly white, has been cited as one reason for the N.F.L.'s slowness in diversifying its ranks. "Owners still look a certain way,," Richard Sherman told The New York Times in 2020 when he was a cornerback for the San Francisco 49ers. "They still come from a very old background." On the N.F.L.'s diversity issues, he said: "They could not care less."
Private equity, of course, has its own challenges with diversity, but new investors could expand the options. The N.F.L., for its part, passed a resolution in 2022 to increase diversity among its ownership. In August, three Black investors took minority stakes in the sale of the Broncos to the Walton-Penner ownership group.
There's likely only one thing that will change the N.F.L.'s mind, say investors active in sports deal making. Gerry Cardinale, the founder of RedBird Capital Partners, put it like this: "If they have to have an auction for a team, or a sale process for a team, and a Jeff Bezos or a David Tepper or a Rob Walton doesn't show up, I think they're going to have to start to look at that."
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
Americans are expected to bet $ 16 billion on the game, according to the American Gaming Association. That number is in legal and illegal bets and is more than twice the value of last year's estimated wagers. It's the first time the Super Bowl will be played in a state that has legalized sports betting.
Anheuser-Busch won't be the only alcohol brand running national commercials for the first time since 1989. The parent company of Budweiser and Stella Artois still plans to air three minutes of national ads, but its competitors will also be allowed to join in Another longtime sponsorship ending this year? The halftime show, which has been sponsored by PepsiCo since 2013, is now backed by Apple Music, which signed a $ 250 million five-year deal.
Rihanna returns from a nearly four-year hiatus from live performances. The halftime show will be a high-stakes comeback for the pop star, who has been busy building three companies that helped make her the youngest self-made billionaire, according to Forbes. Her company Savage X Fenty has sold out of special edition T-shirts reading, "Rihanna Concert Interrupted by a Football Game, Weird but Whatever."
Two Black quarterbacks face off in the Super Bowl for the first time. Jalen Hurts and Patrick Mahomes, the starting quarterbacks of the Philadelphia Eagles and Kansas City Chiefs, have both called the milestone "historic."
The pregame
For most of America, the Super Bowl starts on Sunday evening. But for the deal makers who use the event as a backdrop for doing business, the real game starts days before kickoff.
It's not uncommon to attend exclusive dinners and parties during the week, and then jet out of town before the opening kickoff. "Once the game starts, it's just a game," said George Foster, a professor at Stanford Business School who directs the school's sports management initiative. "It's much more effective to get extended time fairly focused on the business relationship on Thursday, Friday and Saturday."
Michael Rubin, the founder of the sports merchandising company Fanatics, hosted a business lunch on Friday along with the sports agent Casey Wasserman. He said about 10 of the 100 guests, who included three state governors and about half of the N.F.L.'s team owners, flew to Phoenix just for that event. "That gives you a sense of how important it was," he said. "People fly in and out just for an event."
Deal makers take advantage of having big players in one place. "There's C.E.O.-to-C.E.O. contact, which is unique in sports," said George Pyne, the founder of Bruin Capital, a sports investment company, who has hosted a party with the agent Sandy Montag before each of the past 15 Super Bowls. "The N.B.A. Finals, you never know where and when it is, so you can't go to that. Same with the N.H.L. Same with the World Series. There's no other event that galvanizes sports business leaders in a way that the Super Bowl does."
Rubin, who in addition to Friday's lunch is hosting an 800-person, invite-only party Saturday night headlined by the Chainsmokers, said his deal to sell an online services company that he founded to eBay for $ 2.4 billion in 2011 largely came together during the days before a Super Bowl game. Fanatics, he says, has also done major deals with the N.F.L. at the game. "We've done billions of dollars of business at the Super Bowl over the years," he said.
The pregame is growing. "The Super Bowl used to be a one-day event," Foster said. "Now, it's a week to two-week-long event." Even so, luxury tickets to the actual game are still in demand. Stadium suites that can accommodate 18 to 26 people for this year's game begain selling for $ 700,000 to $ 1 million, according to Suite Experiences, which allows companies with long-term suite leases to rent out their luxury boxes on the platform. "They want to watch the game for sure," Pyne said, referring to deal makers, "but they're there to conduct business."
A $ 1 billion Super Bowl?
Another Super Bowl, another record.
According to Fox, the broadcaster for Super Bowl LVII, a bidding war has pushed up the price for the game's most coveted 30-second ad slots to more than $ 7 million -- further proof that a lousy economy and a steep downturn in ad spending is no match for the big game's appeal.
Fox has raked in about $ 600 million in advertising revenue from the Super Bowl -- yep, a record -- as brands aim to reach what is likely to be the biggest TV audience of the year: an expected 100 million viewers (not a Super Bowl record). Over the past five years, the price of ads has spiked up and up, all but guaranteeing the exclusive broadcaster a lucrative payday at a time when media giants are laying off staff and cutting back on programming.
Question: How close are we to the first billion-dollar Super Bowl?
Answer: Probably 2027, according to the Kantar Group, a brand consulting and media analytics firm, which says that broadcast revenues for the event have been rising by $ 100 million each year.
Many viewers could care less about the Eagles or the Chiefs. Or the Rihanna halftime show. They want to see the buzzy ad creations that will liven up the roughly four-hour broadcast. In the YouTube era, advertisers now put the best spots online early. Here are some of DealBook's favorites:
Pop Corners. The snack food brand has reunited the Breaking Bad characters Jesse Pinkman, Walter White and Tuco in a desert standoff. What could go wrong? Crunch.
Busch Beer. OK, this one is just weird. The Canadian singer Sarah McLachlan makes a cameo with what appears to be a wolf, and other woodland creatures.
Michelob Ultra. Yes, another beer ad. Like so many Super Bowl ads this year, this one plays on our nostalgic side; it riffs on "Caddyshack." It features Serena Williams teeing off against Brian Cox of "Succession" fame. Stay for the final putt.
Sex work, sex trafficking and the Super Bowl
In December, Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona, like many government officials preparing to host the Super Bowl before him, announced a statewide campaign to raise awareness of human trafficking, including sex trafficking, ahead of the big game. Though the claim that increased sex trafficking and sex work occurs during major sporting events like the Super Bowl has been debunked over and over and over and over and over again, anti-human trafficking campaigns often target these events.
Campaigns by cities have been criticized by advocates for sex workers, who say such efforts often rely on law enforcement "raids." More patrolling can lead to more arrests of sex workers who are not being trafficked, they say, as well as the possibility that victims of trafficking will be arrested.
It's also unclear whether campaigns to raise awareness about sex trafficking are effective at addressing it. "If we want to protect people who are being trafficked, we need to protect sex workers because they are the most vulnerable for that happening to them next," Kristen DiAngelo, executive director of the Sex Workers Outreach Project in Sacramento, told The Washington Post ahead of last year's Super Bowl.
THE SPEED READ
Some hope an influx of Black N.F.L. presidents could provide a model for diversifying the league. (NYT)
Parsing the game for stock market indicators? Try the ads instead. (WSJ)
Big Tech wants in on the N.F.L. (The Atlantic)
"All Hail the 'God of Sod,' Groundskeeper for All 57 Super Bowls. (NYT)
Kevin Draper contributed reporting.
Thanks for reading!
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Kevin Draper contributed reporting.
Photograph Other sports leagues have changed their rules to allow private equity firms to invest. But so far, the N.F.L. has resisted amid skyrocketing valuations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLINE BREHMAN/EPA-EFE) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Private equity; Professional basketball; Institutional investments; Sports agents; Professional baseball; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Private equity Institutional investments Equity stake

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/11/business/dealbook/nfl-teams-owners.html

Title: Can the N.F.L.'s Team Ownership Rules Survive Huge Valuations?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 13, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: Gen eral Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775520802

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-n-f-l-s-team-ownership-rules-survive-huge/docview/2775520802/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On Tap in Super Bowl Ads: More Than Just Budweiser: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kelley, Lora

Publication info: Kelley, Lora. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-tap-super-bowl-ads-more-than-just-budweiser/docview/2775161179/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For the first time in decades, Anheuser-Busch won't be the only alcohol brand running national ads during the game.
Clydesdale horses. Spuds MacKenzie. Wassssuuuuuuup?!
Beer ads are practically as characteristic of the Super Bowl as touchdowns. And they will be again this year, with one big change: They won't all come from brands owned by Anheuser-Busch.
After three decades as the only alcohol brand to air its commercials nationally during the game, the parent company of Budweiser, Bud Light and Michelob Ultra gave up that exclusivity in June.
Cue the competitors -- and a flood of beer and alcohol ads in Sunday's national broadcast.
"It took us less than a minute to decide," said Michelle St. Jacques, the chief marketing officer of Molson Coors, the parent company of brands including Coors Light and Miller Lite. "We were like, 'Game on."'
Jonnie Cahill, the chief marketing officer at Heineken, which will feature its alcohol-free Heineken 0.0 in a commercial on Sunday, said: "As a C.M.O., when that announcement was made, of course your eyes open up and you think, What if?" He added, "We're delighted to be able to access the Super Bowl."
Crown Royal and Rémy Martin will also run national Super Bowl commercials for the first time on Sunday. But Anheuser-Busch will still be the game's largest advertising spender, with four ads: three minutes of national time and 30 seconds of regional time.
The Super Bowl remains the most important event on the advertising calendar in the United States. In the two weeks surrounding the game last year, more than $ 1.6 billion was spent on beer, hard cider and malt beverages, and more than 60 million cases of those drinks were sold, according to Nielsen IQ.
Some advertisers paid Fox, which is broadcasting the game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs, more than $ 7 million for a 30-second spot. Several forecasts predict that more than 110 million people will watch this year's game.
Some brands, however, are pulling back on their marketing budgets in response to an uncertain economy. Mark Evans, executive vice president of ad sales for Fox Sports, said that "the enthusiasm to spend $ 7 million for 30 seconds waned a little bit" toward the end of 2022, but that the ad slots sold out by late January.
Viewers can expect to see, in addition to booze ads, spots from major food brands like Doritos, Avocados From Mexico, M&M's and Planters, as well as a smattering of ads for car companies and tech firms. Notably, cryptocurrency companies will be absent, after they were so prominent during last year's game that many observers called it the "Crypto Bowl." The industry crashed in the months that followed.
Brands will be marketing their products on other screens, especially phones. Many plan interactive rollouts as well, seeking to engage viewers on TikTok and sports-betting apps around the game.
But the main focus remains on the television ads.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Anheuser-Busch gave up its exclusive rights as part of a "rebalancing" of investments, said Alissa Heinerscheid, the vice president of marketing for Bud Light.
Bud Light's commercial will feature the actor Miles Teller (an Eagles fan) and his wife, the influencer Keleigh Teller. In the spot, the couple drink out of cans of Bud Light and dance as they wait on hold. The energy is "lighter and brighter" this year, Ms. Heinerscheid said.
Though other alcohol brands have long been shut out of national Super Bowl ad spots, they have often found ways to reach consumers during the game. Rémy Cointreau, Rémy Martin's parent company, has run regional ads for its spirits in the past. Molson Coors has promoted a number of digital efforts to engage viewers around the Super Bowl. (One campaign invited viewers to type out a very long URL to burn a single calorie.)
But the companies say they are glad to be able to participate in an official capacity this year.
"Even though we've been locked out for the past 30 years, we've kind of hacked our way into the conversation," Ms. St. Jacques of Molson Coors said.
Her company's campaign, which will highlight Coors Light and Miller Light, started weeks ago and invited viewers to bet on what will happen in its Super Bowl ad -- like the type of dog that will appear behind a counter and how many characters will have facial hair -- and enter a pool on DraftKings, the sports-betting app, which is running its own Super Bowl commercial. People who guess correctly will split $ 500,000 in prize money. Molson Coors has promoted its challenge on social media, in teaser ads during other football games and in a paid media campaign.
The content of the final ad has been kept under tight wraps, Ms. St. Jacques said. Even the company's chief executive, she said in an interview last month, will find out what happens in the commercial when the rest of the world does.
"Everyone has been waiting 30 years, so a couple more weeks will be fine," she said.
Photograph Paul Rudd as Ant-Man in a Super Bowl ad for Heineken this year, left. The actor Miles Teller and his wife, the influencer Keleigh Teller, in a Bud Light commercial, below left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEINEKEN; ANHEUSER-BUSCH) This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Professional football; Marketing; Alcohol; Beer; Social networks; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks Breweries

People: Teller, Miles

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110; Name: Molson Coors Beverage Co; NAICS: 312120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/10/business/media/beer-ads-super-bowl.html

Title: On Tap in Super Bowl Ads: More Than Just Budweiser:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 11, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775161179

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-tap-super-bowl-ads-more-than-just-budweiser/docview/2775161179/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

During George Floyd Protests, 2 Lawyers’ Futures Went Up in Flames

Author: Meko, Hurubie; Rebecca Davis O’Brien

Publication info: Meko, Hurubie; Rebecca Davis O’Brien. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/during-george-floyd-protests-2-lawyers-futures/docview/2770082558/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Colinford Mattis’ trajectory from a working-class upbringing in East New York to the Ivy League and corporate law abruptly ended at about 1 a.m. May 30, 2020, when a Molotov cocktail ignited the center console of an empty police car during a Black Lives Matter protest.
On Thursday afternoon, Judge Brian Cogan of U.S. District Court in Brooklyn sentenced Mattis, one of two young lawyers who burned the vehicle during the protests days after the murder of George Floyd, to 12 months and a day in prison and a year of post-release supervision.
Mattis, 35, has lost his law license, having pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit arson and having acknowledged he had broken the law he had sworn to uphold. Now he may lose much more: the guardianship and planned adoption of three foster children. The oldest is 14.
On Thursday evening, the Brooklyn courtroom was crowded with Mattis’ friends and family.
“I’m deeply sorry and embarrassed about the things I did and said in May 2020,” Mattis told the judge. He said he recently reread his text messages from that day. “I am more than horrified at the words I used,” he said.
“I am sorry that I hurt my three children that my mother had entrusted to me,” he added.
The judge told Mattis that the country needed attorneys to bolster faith in the rule of law and to reassure Americans that the legal system would hold Floyd’s killers to account. He told Mattis that his hard work had changed his station in life.
“You’re not one of the oppressed,” Cogan said. “You’re one of the privileged.”
Spectators in the gallery gasped at the judge’s words. “To make that comment, you’re not seeing the same things that I’m seeing,” said Taaj Reeves, a friend of Mattis’, after the hearing.
In November, the judge had sentenced Urooj Rahman, Mattis’ friend and a fellow lawyer, to 15 months in prison and two years of supervised release for the same crime. She was the primary caretaker of her aging mother. Cogan called the sentence one of the most difficult he ever had to impose. After a lifetime of hard work and conscientiousness, he said, Rahman’s conduct was a violent aberration.
“You are a remarkable person who did a terrible thing on one night,” the judge told her.
Cogan said Thursday that Mattis got a lighter punishment because he had not been the main instigator of the attack.
The sentences close a case that stunned the city, devastated two families and exposed deep fissures between the police and the community. They reflect a long negotiation with the U.S. attorney’s office in Brooklyn, which at first sought steep charges and had pushed to deny bail to Rahman and Mattis, both first-time offenders.
Rahman and Mattis had been high achievers, children of immigrant families who were raised in New York. Rahman pursued public interest law, co-authoring a paper on police reform in 2014 and working at Bronx Legal Services. Mattis followed a more lucrative corporate path. But he was already teetering in his career and personal life when the protests occurred.
The events that led to their downfall began in an unsettled spring.
Mattis had been furloughed in March from his job as an associate at the law firm Pryor Cashman, and the pandemic had cut him off from outside support as he took care of the children, his lawyer wrote.
Then, on May 25, video of Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man who died in Minneapolis after his neck was pinned to the ground by Derek Chauvin, a white police officer, ignited protests. There were demonstrations in at least 140 cities across the United States.
In New York, peaceful protests turned into confrontations with police. Throughout the weekend, demonstrators clashed with officers in Union Square in Manhattan and outside the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, resulting in injuries and hundreds of arrests.
On May 29, according to court documents, Mattis had been drinking throughout the day as he exchanged despairing messages over the murder of Floyd with friends, including Rahman, who were mobilizing to join a protest. That evening, Rahman, who was 31 at the time, met Mattis after he made stops to buy supplies, including gasoline, and joined a swell of protesters in Brooklyn.
Shortly after midnight, with Mattis at the wheel, according to court filings, they drove in a tan minivan to a police precinct in Clinton Hill. After trying to persuade a bystander to throw a bottle that she was holding, Rahman got out of the van herself, walked toward an empty police patrol car that had already been damaged by protesters and threw the Molotov cocktail through its broken window before fleeing.
She and Mattis were arrested shortly afterward and held in jail for several days before they were released to home confinement.
It was a politically fraught moment after New York police officers had arrested hundreds of people during the protests, many on charges of disorderly conduct, resisting arrest and unlawful assembly. District attorneys said they would not prosecute many of the nonviolent cases.
Brooklyn federal prosecutors, then part of the Trump Justice Department, appealed twice to keep them behind bars, saying that the two lawyers had tried to incite others to similar attacks. But more than 50 former federal prosecutors signed a public letter urging the appeals court to reject the U.S. attorney’s office’s argument for detention, saying it contradicted settled bail law.
In June 2020, a grand jury returned an indictment against Mattis and Rahman that included seven counts, including arson, use of explosives and civil disorder.
In November 2021, after President Joe Biden had taken office and new leadership had taken over in the Department of Justice, Rahman and Mattis each pleaded guilty to one count of possessing and making an incendiary device. Last June, those charges were dismissed as part of a deal with prosecutors, and both pleaded guilty to a count of conspiracy to commit arson.
At Rahman’s sentencing, she faced up to five years under federal guidelines, and the government had asked for 18 months to two years. Her lawyer, Peter Baldwin, asked the court to impose only supervised release, saying his client had experienced “a dangerous and reprehensible lapse of judgment.”
“Urooj’s emotions — her anger, her despair, her rage — got the better of her,” he told the judge. Since the incident, Rahman had been in therapy and Alcoholics Anonymous, Baldwin said.
Rahman was born in Pakistan and grew up in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn; she graduated from Fordham Law School and had always been drawn to public interest work, a commitment for which Cogan praised her.
When she addressed the court, Rahman cried as she spoke about her mother’s grief. “I don’t think there are enough words to express my sorrow and regret,” she told the court. “My sole intention was to lend my voice to other New Yorkers in the pursuit of justice. I completely lost my way in the emotions of the night.”
She is to report to federal prison in Connecticut on Tuesday.
Mattis has already spent nearly a month in jail, has taken a leadership role in his Alcoholics Anonymous chapter and is at no risk of reoffending, his lawyers said in the memorandum to the judge.
Sabrina Shroff, his defense attorney, told Cogan in a presentencing letter how Mattis, the son of immigrants from Jamaica and St. Vincent, grew up in a chaotic home. Although early on he struggled academically, he went on to graduate from boarding school, then attended Princeton University and New York University’s law school.
When he was in his second year of law school, his father, Kingcolinford Mattis, was stabbed to death during a robbery in St. Vincent. His son used alcohol to dull his pain, Shroff wrote.
After law school, when he took a job at a law firm in 2016, he was often late or absent, court documents said. His yearslong dependency on alcohol worsened. He was asked to leave the firm just as his mother was diagnosed with uterine cancer, and he became her primary caregiver until her death in 2019, even as he worked at another firm.
After she died, Mattis took over her role as the foster parent for the three children he is now in the process of trying to adopt. He is also the primary caretaker for his 15-year-old nephew.
Shortly after the pandemic hit in March 2020 and Mattis was furloughed, his drinking increased, according to court filings.
On May 29, 2020, hours before he joined the protests, Mattis watched the video of Floyd’s murder for the first time and began to cry.
Within hours, court records said, Mattis was driving the minivan quickly away from the burning police sedan with open bottles of Bud Light, a funnel, a half-full red gas can and rolls of toilet paper. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Public interest; Law schools; Arrests; Arson; Attorneys; Personal profiles; Law firms; Pandemics; Stabbings; Disorderly conduct; Public prosecutors; Criminal sentences; Indictments; Court hearings & proceedings; Police reform; Conspiracy; Robbery; Demonstrations & protests; Murders & murder attempts; Alcoholism

Business indexing term: Subject: Law firms

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Floyd, George

Company / organization: Name: Alcoholics Anonymous; NAICS: 813319

Identifier / keyword: New York University; Bronx (Nyc); Pakistan; Minneapolis (Minn); Connecticut; Barclays Center (Brooklyn, Ny); York University; Bay Ridge (Brooklyn, Ny); Union Square (Manhattan, Ny); Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Clinton Hill (Brooklyn, Ny); Jamaica (Queens, Ny); Manhattan (Nyc); Floyd, George (D 2020); St Vincent (1982 ); Justice Department; Ivy League; Alcoholics Anonymous; East New York (Brooklyn, Ny); Fordham University; New York State; Chauvin, Derek (1976 ); Brooklyn (Nyc); Princeton University; Mattis, Colinford King; United States; Police Department (Minneapolis, Minn); Police Department (Nyc); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Trump, Donald J; Cogan, Brian M; Rahman, Urooj; Adoptions; Alcohol Abuse; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Bail; Fugitives; Labor And Jobs; Presidential Election Of 2020; Prisons And Prisoners; Foster Care; Courts And The Judiciary; Colleges And Universities; United States Politics And Government; Appoi ntments And Executive Changes; State Legislatures; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Vandalism; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Fires And Firefighters; Elections; Law Schools; Automobiles; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Immigration And Emigration; George Floyd Protests (2020); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Black Lives Matter Movement; Black People; Police; Deaths (Fatalities); Legal Profession; Arson; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Decisions And Verdicts

Title: During George Floyd Protests, 2 Lawyers’ Futures Went Up in Flames

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 27, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-27 @ 09:41

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770082558

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/during-george-floyd-protests-2-lawyers-futures/docview/2770082558/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New Yo rk Times Company Jan 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At a Floyd Protest in Brooklyn, 2 Lawyers Destroyed a Police Car and Their Careers: [National Desk]

Author: Meko, Hurubie; Rebecca Davis O'Brien

Publication info: Meko, Hurubie; Rebecca Davis O'Brien. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-floyd-protest-brooklyn-2-lawyers-destroyed/docview/2769900289/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Colinford Mattis, who was sentenced Thursday, and Urooj Rahman burned a police car. They lost their licenses to practice law. He may lose his foster children.
Colinford Mattis's trajectory from a working-class upbringing in East New York to the Ivy League and corporate law abruptly ended at about 1 a.m. on May 30, 2020, when a Molotov cocktail ignited the center console of an empty police car during a Black Lives Matter protest.
On Thursday afternoon, Judge Brian M. Cogan of U.S. District Court in Brooklyn sentenced Mr. Mattis, one of two young lawyers who burned the vehicle during the protests days after the murder of George Floyd, to 12 months and a day in prison and a year of post-release supervision.
Mr. Mattis, 35, has lost his law license, having pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit arson and acknowledged that he had broken the law he had sworn to uphold. Now, he may lose much more: the guardianship and planned adoption of three foster children. The oldest is 14.
On Thursday evening, the Brooklyn courtroom was crowded with Mr. Mattis's friends and family.
"I'm deeply sorry and embarrassed about the things I did and said in May 2020," Mr. Mattis told the judge. He said he recently reread his text messages from that day. "I am more than horrified at the words I used," he said.
"I am sorry that I hurt my three children that my mother had entrusted to me," he added.
The judge told Mr. Mattis that the country needed attorneys to bolster faith in the rule of law and to reassure Americans that the legal system would hold Mr. Floyd's killers to account. He told Mr. Mattis that his hard work had changed his station in life.
"You're not one of the oppressed," Judge Cogan said. "You're one of the privileged."
Spectators in the gallery gasped at the judge's words. "To make that comment, you're not seeing the same things that I'm seeing," said Taaj Reeves, a friend of Mr. Mattis's, after the hearing.
In November, the judge had sentenced Urooj Rahman, Mattis's friend and a fellow lawyer, to 15 months in prison and two years of supervised release for the same crime. She was the primary caretaker of her aging mother. Judge Cogan called the sentence one of the most difficult he ever had to impose. After a lifetime of hard work and conscientiousness, he said, Ms. Rahman's conduct was a violent aberration.
"You are a remarkable person who did a terrible thing on one night," the judge told her.
Judge Cogan said Thursday that Mr. Mattis got a lighter punishment because he had not been the main instigator of the attack.
The sentences close a case that stunned the city, devastated two families and exposed deep fissures between the police and the community. They reflect a long negotiation with the U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn, which at first sought steep charges and had pushed to deny bail to Mr. Rahman and Ms. Mattis, both first-time offenders.
They had been high achievers, children of immigrant families who were raised in New York. Ms. Rahman pursued public interest law, co-authoring a paper on police reform in 2014 and working at Bronx Legal Services. Mr. Mattis followed a more lucrative corporate path. But he was already teetering in his career and personal life when the protests occurred.
The events that led to their downfall began in an unsettled spring.
Mr. Mattis had been furloughed in March from his job as an associate at the law firm Pryor Cashman, and the pandemic had cut him off from outside support as he took care of the children, his lawyer wrote.
Then, on May 25, video of Mr. Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man who died in Minneapolis after his neck was pinned to the ground by Derek Chauvin, a white police officer, ignited protests. There were demonstrations in at least 140 cities across the United States.
In New York, peaceful protests turned into confrontations with police. Throughout the weekend, demonstrators clashed with officers in Union Square in Manhattan and outside the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, resulting in injuries and hundreds of arrests.
On May 29, according to court documents, Mr. Mattis had been drinking throughout the day as he exchanged despairing messages over the murder of Mr. Floyd with friends, including Ms. Rahman, who were mobilizing to join a protest. That evening, Ms. Rahman, who was 31 at the time, met Mr. Mattis after he made stops to buy supplies, including gasoline, and joined a swell of protesters in Brooklyn.
Shortly after midnight, with Mr. Mattis at the wheel, according to court filings, they drove in a tan minivan to a police precinct in Clinton Hill. After trying to persuade a bystander to throw a bottle that she was holding, Ms. Rahman got out of the van herself, walked toward an empty police patrol car that had already been damaged by protesters and threw the Molotov cocktail through its broken window before fleeing.
She and Mr. Mattis were arrested shortly afterward and held in jail for several days before they were released to home confinement.
It was a politically fraught moment after New York police officers had arrested hundreds of people during the protests, many on charges of disorderly conduct, resisting arrest and unlawful assembly. District attorneys said they would not prosecute many of the nonviolent cases.
Brooklyn federal prosecutors, then part of the Trump Justice Department, appealed twice to keep them behind bars, saying that the two lawyers had tried to incite others to similar attacks. But more than 50 former federal prosecutors signed a public letter urging the appeals court to reject the U.S. attorney's office's argument for detention, saying it contradicted settled bail law.
In June 2020, a grand jury returned an indictment against Mr. Mattis and Ms. Rahman that included seven counts, including arson, use of explosives and civil disorder.
In November 2021, after President Biden had taken office and new leadership had taken over in the Department of Justice, Ms. Rahman and Mr. Mattis each pleaded guilty to one count of possessing and making an incendiary device. Last June, those charges were dismissed as part of a deal with prosecutors, and both pleaded guilty to a count of conspiracy to commit arson.
At Ms. Rahman's sentencing, she faced up to five years under federal guidelines, and the government had asked for 18 months to two years. Her lawyer, Peter Baldwin, asked the court to impose only supervised release, saying his client had experienced "a dangerous and reprehensible lapse of judgment."
"Urooj's emotions, her anger, her despair, her rage, got the better of her," he told the judge. Since the incident, Ms. Rahman had been in therapy and Alcoholics Anonymous, Mr. Baldwin said.
Ms. Rahman was born in Pakistan and grew up in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn; she graduated from Fordham Law School and had always been drawn to public interest work, a commitment for which Judge Cogan praised her.
When she addressed the court, Ms. Rahman cried as she spoke about her mother's grief. "I don't think there are enough words to express my sorrow and regret," she told the court. "My sole intention was to lend my voice to other New Yorkers in the pursuit of justice. I completely lost my way in the emotions of the night."
She is to report to federal prison in Connecticut on Tuesday.
Mr. Mattis has already spent nearly a month in jail, has taken a leadership role in his Alcoholics Anonymous chapter and is at no risk of reoffending, his lawyers said in the memorandum to the judge.
Sabrina P. Shroff, his defense attorney, told Judge Cogan in a presentencing letter how Mr. Mattis, the son of immigrants from Jamaica and St. Vincent, grew up in a chaotic home. Though early on he struggled academically, he went on to graduate from boarding school, then attended Princeton University and New York University's law school.
When he was in his second year of law school, his father, Kingcolinford Mattis, was stabbed to death during a robbery in St. Vincent. His son used alcohol to dull his pain, Ms. Shroff wrote.
After law school, when he took a job at a law firm in 2016, he was often late or absent, court documents said. His yearslong dependency on alcohol worsened. He was asked to leave the firm just as his mother was diagnosed with uterine cancer and became her primary caregiver until her death in 2019, even as he worked at another firm.
After she died, Mr. Mattis took over her role as the foster parent for the three children he is now in the process of trying to adopt. He is also the primary caretaker for his 15-year-old nephew.
Shortly after the pandemic hit in March 2020 and Mr. Mattis was furloughed, his drinking increased, according to court filings.
On May 29, 2020, hours before he joined the protests, Mr. Mattis watched the video of Mr. Floyd's murder for the first time and began to cry.
Within hours, court records said, Mr. Mattis was driving the minivan quickly away from the burning police sedan with open bottles of Bud Light, a funnel, a half-full red gas can and rolls of toilet paper.
Photograph Colinford Mattis, far left, and Urooj Rahman lost their law licenses and were sentenced to prison over a Molotov cocktail that burned a car in May 2020. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Indictments; Attorneys; Stabbings; Public prosecutors

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Alcoholics Anonymous; NAICS: 813319

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/26/nyregion/lawyers-sentenced-molotov-police-car.html

Title: At a Floyd Protest in Brooklyn, 2 Lawyers Destroyed a Police Car and Their Careers:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 27, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2769900289

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-floyd-protest-brooklyn-2-lawyers-destroyed/docview/2769900289/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Life Has Taken a Big Turn for the Man They Call Big Foe. And He's All In.: [Sports Desk]

Author: Futterman, Matthew

Publication info: Futterman, Matthew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-has-taken-big-turn-man-they-call-foe-hes-all/docview/2766935559/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A thunderous run to the semifinals at the 2022 U.S. Open changed Tiafoe's life. Now the rising American tennis star wants more.
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Let's start with the outfit, that abstract-art-meets-silk-summer-pajamas-meets-Nike-tennis get-up that Frances Tiafoe is wearing at the Australian Open.
"They just told me it's going to be outgoing and sleeveless, and I was like, 'cool,"' Tiafoe said earlier this week after winning his first match in a rather nontraditional tennis kit. "And a lot of colors and mixing action. They were like, if anyone can pull this off, it's me, so I was like, 'Cool, let's do it."'
There are also the Calvin Klein underwear shots. And there is his evolution into the de facto alpha dog of American tennis even if several players are ranked higher and have lasted longer or even won major tournaments. That became especially apparent earlier this month when he helped lead the United States to victory in the inaugural United Cup, a rare mixed team event.
"You locked?" he would ask his teammates before every match in that competition. Now it's their catch phrase, the word they say to each other as they prowl the hallways and plazas at Melbourne Park before their matches and lead a wave of American success that seems to grow with each Grand Slam.
In the months after the U.S. Open, Tiafoe bumped fists with LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony, and hobnobbed with the top names in fashion. His new agents at IMG, the sports and entertainment conglomerate that signs only athletes it views as potential marketing juggernauts, have helped with that, but mostly it's because of a few magical hours back in September at the U.S. Open.
"That day definitely changed my life," Tiafoe said Wednesday, after plowing into the third round with a straight sets win over Shang Juncheng, a 17-year-old Chinese whiz kid with a seemingly sparkling future.
"That day" was Sept. 5, when Tiafoe upset Rafael Nadal at the U.S. Open, becoming the first American man to beat Nadal in a Grand Slam in nearly two decades. Four days later, with the former first lady Michelle Obama, a roster of A-list celebrities and more than 20,000 fans screaming for him in Arthur Ashe Stadium, he lost a five-set thriller to Carlos Alcaraz, the eventual champion and world No. 1.
Nothing has been the same since for the man known as "Big Foe," who is seeded 16th in this tournament.
"You come so close to doing something so special, and to see everything that happened after that," Tiafoe said Wednesday. "I want more of those moments and better."
Tiafoe, who plays Karen Khachanov of Russia, on his 25th birthday on Friday, has been, if not here exactly, then somewhere like this before. Three years ago, he made the quarterfinals of this tournament, and his ranking soon shot up to No. 29 in the world. He figured his tennis life would simply continue the upward trajectory that began when he picked up a racket as a small child at the club where his father, an immigrant from Sierra Leone, was a maintenance worker, and began hitting balls against a wall.
He quickly caught the eye of tennis coaches there, and later the United States Tennis Association, which helped fund his development through his teenage years. But that breakthrough at the 2019 Australian Open resulted in complacency rather than hunger. He practiced and trained hard only when he felt like it, or skipped it altogether. He paid little attention to what he ate.
He lost more often than he won and fell out of the top 80.
Wayne Ferreira, a former pro from South Africa who started coaching Tiafoe in 2020, said in September that Tiafoe might have suffered from having it all come so easily.
"I think I helped him because I played and I went through the issues of being relatively talented and being lazy," Ferreira said in September. "Food intake was terrible at the beginning. The effort on the practices and on the court wasn't good enough. It's taken time for us to get gradually to where we are today."
Tiafoe said he was virtually unrecognizable from the person and the player he was three years ago, the one who suddenly found himself playing challenger tournaments on the sport's back roads.
"You lose confidence, and then by the time you know it, people start figuring it out," he said. At that point, he said, you wonder, "Where did it all go?"
Now Tiafoe must figure out how to regulate two seemingly contradictory forces within his personality. There is the laid back, easygoing jokester with an electric smile, and the intense competitor who desperately wants to fulfill the potential that he and everyone around him knows he has.
"Frances has always had his way," said Tommy Paul, who has trained and competed with Tiafoe since they were among the country's top 9-year-olds. "He's calm somewhere, but he's Frances. It's different."
That it is.
Tiafoe's courtside chair and its surroundings are usually a disorganized mess of towels, water bottles, rackets, tape and other equipment. He operates on his own schedule, which may or may not help him get a watch sponsorship, depending on a manufacturer's perspective.
At the Laver Cup in September, where Tiafoe teamed up with Jack Sock to play Nadal and Roger Federer in Federer's last competitive match, Tiafoe ran to the other side of the court to slap Nadal's hand in the middle of the game after Nadal hit a masterful winner. After Team World beat the Europeans, he showed up characteristically late to the news conference, where he took out a bottle of water and a Budweiser from his jacket.
He was late again after the United States clinched the United Cup earlier this month in Sydney. His teammates, Taylor Fritz, Jessica Pegula and Madison Keys, sat at a table, waiting and shaking their heads.
"Oh, Frances," Keys said, trying to hold in her laughter.
The casual approach has its benefits. Pegula and Tiafoe bonded at that United Cup in a way that male and female players rarely do, warming each other up before each match, a routine that they have continued during this tournament.
Pegula, who is ranked third in the world, said she and Tiafoe had a kind of yin-and-yang energy in the hours before they compete. She comes onto the court a bundle of nerves, especially if she is not hitting well. He comes out "just so happy-go-lucky, the biggest hype person ever," she said.
"I'm a little bit more focused, which he needs," she added. "He says he feels like the best player in the world when he hits with me."
Tiafoe said hitting with Pegula had allowed him to soak up everything he could from someone who is playing the best tennis of her life.
"You can learn from greatness," he said. "You can learn from people doing stuff at a high level."
He knows his recent success has wrought expectations that are higher than ever. In his case, though, they carry a different sort of pressure. A player who goes toe-to-toe with the best players in the world with an irreverent attitude, a messy changeover area, a penchant for tardiness and eye-popping clothes is colorful. But do all those things and lose in the first week and you are seen as unserious, sloppy, tardy and with questionable fashion sense. Nadal's famous clam-diggers only worked because he won armloads of trophies while wearing them.
During the interview Monday, Tiafoe said he was on a mission. Gone are the days when he was happy to make the fourth round. He wants to beat the best players in the world, in the biggest stadiums, in the most important tournaments.
If he can do that, his journey really will be the stuff of Hollywood movies, and maybe someone will make one about him someday.
But as Ferreira pointed out during his U.S. Open run, "You only get movies if you do well."
Photograph The American Frances Tiafoe after defeating Shang Juncheng of China in the second round of the Australian Open on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON FAVILA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Tennis; Tournaments & championships

Location: United States--US

People: Tiafoe, Frances

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/19/sports/tennis/frances-tiafoe-australian-open.html

Title: Life Has Taken a Big Turn for the Man They Call Big Foe. And He's All In.:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 20, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United S tates

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766935559

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-has-taken-big-turn-man-they-call-foe-hes-all/docview/2766935559/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Frances Tiafoe’s Life Goes Technicolor

Author: Futterman, Matthew

Publication info: Futterman, Matthew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frances-tiafoe-s-life-goes-technicolor/docview/2766804114/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MELBOURNE, Australia — Let’s start with the outfit, that abstract-art-meets-silk-summer-pajamas-meets-Nike-tennis get-up that Frances Tiafoe is wearing at the Australian Open.
“They just told me it’s going to be outgoing and sleeveless, and I was like, ‘cool,’ ” Tiafoe said this week after winning his first match in a rather nontraditional tennis kit. “And a lot of colors and mixing action. They were like, if anyone can pull this off, it’s me, so I was like, ‘Cool, let’s do it.’ ”
There are also the Calvin Klein underwear shots. And there is his evolution into the de facto alpha dog of American tennis even if several players are ranked higher and have lasted longer or even won major tournaments. That became especially apparent this month when he helped lead the United States to victory in the inaugural United Cup, a rare mixed team event.
“You locked?” he would ask his teammates before every match in that competition. Now it’s their catch phrase, the word they say to each other as they prowl the hallways and plazas at Melbourne Park before their matches and lead a wave of American success that seems to grow with each Grand Slam.
In the months after the U.S. Open, Tiafoe bumped fists with LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony, and hobnobbed with the top names in fashion. His new agents at IMG, the sports and entertainment conglomerate that signs only athletes it views as potential marketing juggernauts, have helped with that, but mostly it’s because of a few magical hours back in September at the U.S. Open.
“That day definitely changed my life,” Tiafoe said Wednesday, after plowing into the third round with a straight sets win over Shang Juncheng, a 17-year-old Chinese whiz kid with a seemingly sparkling future.
“That day” was Sept. 5, when Tiafoe upset Rafael Nadal at the U.S. Open, becoming the first American man to beat Nadal in a Grand Slam in nearly two decades. Four days later, with former first lady Michelle Obama, a roster of A-list celebrities and more than 20,000 fans screaming for him in Arthur Ashe Stadium, he lost a five-set thriller to Carlos Alcaraz, the eventual champion and world No. 1.
Nothing has been the same since for the man known as “Big Foe,” who is seeded 16th in this tournament.
“You come so close to doing something so special, and to see everything that happened after that,” Tiafoe said Wednesday. “I want more of those moments and better.”
Tiafoe, who plays Karen Khachanov of Russia, on his 25th birthday Friday, has been, if not here exactly, then somewhere like this before. Three years ago, he made the quarterfinals of this tournament, and his ranking soon shot up to No. 29 in the world. He figured his tennis life would simply continue the upward trajectory that began when he picked up a racket as a small child at the club where his father, an immigrant from Sierra Leone, was a maintenance worker, and began hitting balls against a wall.
He quickly caught the eye of tennis coaches there, and later the United States Tennis Association, which helped fund his development through his teenage years. But that breakthrough at the 2019 Australian Open resulted in complacency rather than hunger. He practiced and trained hard only when he felt like it, or skipped it altogether. He paid little attention to what he ate.
He lost more often than he won and fell out of the top 80.
Wayne Ferreira, a former pro from South Africa who started coaching Tiafoe in 2020, said in September that Tiafoe might have suffered from having it all come so easily.
“I think I helped him because I played and I went through the issues of being relatively talented and being lazy,” Ferreira said in September. “Food intake was terrible at the beginning. The effort on the practices and on the court wasn’t good enough. It’s taken time for us to get gradually to where we are today.”
Tiafoe said he was virtually unrecognizable from the person and the player he was three years ago, the one who suddenly found himself playing challenger tournaments on the sport’s back roads.
“You lose confidence, and then by the time you know it, people start figuring it out,” he said. At that point, he said, you wonder, “Where did it all go?”
Now Tiafoe must figure out how to regulate two seemingly contradictory forces within his personality. There is the laid back, easygoing jokester with an electric smile, and the intense competitor who desperately wants to fulfill the potential that he and everyone around him knows he has.
“Frances has always had his way,” said Tommy Paul, who has trained and competed with Tiafoe since they were among the country’s top 9-year-olds. “He’s calm somewhere, but he’s Frances. It’s different.”
That it is.
Tiafoe’s courtside chair and its surroundings are usually a disorganized mess of towels, water bottles, rackets, tape and other equipment. He operates on his own schedule, which may or may not help him get a watch sponsorship, depending on a manufacturer’s perspective.
At the Laver Cup in September, where Tiafoe teamed up with Jack Sock to play Nadal and Roger Federer in Federer’s last competitive match, Tiafoe ran to the other side of the court to slap Nadal’s hand in the middle of the game after Nadal hit a masterful winner. After Team World beat the Europeans, he showed up characteristically late to the news conference, where he took out a bottle of water and a Budweiser from his jacket.
He was late again after the United States clinched the United Cup this month in Sydney. His teammates, Taylor Fritz, Jessica Pegula and Madison Keys, sat at a table, waiting and shaking their heads.
“Oh, Frances,” Keys said, trying to hold in her laughter.
The casual approach has its benefits. Pegula and Tiafoe bonded at that United Cup in a way that male and female players rarely do, warming each other up before each match, a routine that they have continued during this tournament.
Pegula, who is ranked third in the world, said she and Tiafoe had a kind of yin-and-yang energy in the hours before they compete. She comes onto the court a bundle of nerves, especially if she is not hitting well. He comes out “just so happy-go-lucky, the biggest hype person ever,” she said.
“I’m a little bit more focused, which he needs,” she added. “He says he feels like the best player in the world when he hits with me.”
Tiafoe said hitting with Pegula had allowed him to soak up everything he could from someone who is playing the best tennis of her life.
“You can learn from greatness,” he said. “You can learn from people doing stuff at a high level.”
Tiafoe knows his recent success has wrought expectations that are higher than ever. In his case, though, they carry a different sort of pressure. A player who goes toe-to-toe with the best players in the world with an irreverent attitude, a messy changeover area, a penchant for tardiness and eye-popping clothes is colorful. But do all those things and lose in the first week and you are seen as unserious, sloppy, tardy and with questionable fashion sense. Nadal’s famous clam-diggers only worked because he won armloads of trophies while wearing them.
During the interview Monday, Tiafoe said he was on a mission. Gone are the days when he was happy to make the fourth round. He wants to beat the best players in the world, in the biggest stadiums, in the most important tournaments.
If he can do that, his journey really will be the stuff of Hollywood movies, and maybe someone will make one about him someday.
But as Ferreira pointed out during his U.S. Open run, “You only get movies if you do well.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Tennis; Tournaments & championships

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Gauff, Cori (Coco); Tiafoe, Frances

Identifier / keyword: Sports; United States Tennis Assn; James, Lebron; Calvin Klein Inc; Ashe, Arthur; Melbourne (Australia); Europe; Federer, Roger; Anthony, Carmelo; Sierra Leone; Img Worldwide; Ashe, Arthur, Stadium; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Sydney (Australia); Futterman, Matthew; Obama, Michelle; Shang Juncheng (2005 ); Nike Inc; Nadal, Rafael; Sock, Jack; Paul, Tommy (1997 ); Khachanov, Karen (1996 ); Australia; Alcaraz, Carlos (2003 ); United States; Fritz, Taylor Harry (1997 ); Tiafoe, Frances (1998 ); Keys, Madison; Pegula, Jessica (1994 ); Orderliness And Clutter; Fashion And Apparel; Australian Open (Tennis); United States Open (Tennis)

Title: Frances Tiafoe’s Life Goes Technicolor

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 19, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-19 @ 16:01

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766804114

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frances-tiafoe-s-life-goes-technicolor/docview/2766804114/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2023

Last updated: 2025-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cool People, Awful Trends and a Few Predictions: [Style Desk]

Author: Berlinger, Max

Publication info: Berlinger, Max. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cool-people-awful-trends-few-predictions/docview/2759760567/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hosts of the cult podcast "Throwing Fits" gathered with friends and fans to weigh in on fashion and who's the coolest person in Los Angeles.
LOS ANGELES -- The "Throwing Fits" holiday party, toasting the popular podcast that ridicules and reveres men's fashion equally, began just after 5 p.m. last Thursday, when Lawrence Schlossman and James Harris, the hosts of the show, stepped out of a car in front of Mohawk General Store in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles. They cradled packs of Budweiser and Modelo like infants they had rescued from a gas station.
Guests dressed in baggy work-wear pants, chic but fraying shirts, limited-edition sneakers and nubby fleeces. Many were regulars of the store or avid listeners of the podcast. Inside, there was a table with wine, liquor and CBD beverages.
Slowly the crowd ballooned and spilled outside the shop, a popular boutique owned by the husband-and-wife team Kevin and Bo Carney. Its stock list -- Our Legacy, Dries Van Noten, Stüssy, Bode -- is the sort that a listener of "Throwing Fits" would find appealing.
This is the second year that Mr. Harris and Mr. Schlossman have held the party, and has been a chance for them to create a real-world meet-up for their internet friends. All were welcome.
"I think anytime you have an online internet friendship and then you actually meet the person and you both realize that you're not weirdos, you realize that connection is real," Mr. Harris said.
We asked some of the attendees for their thoughts on the coolest person in Los Angeles, the worst trends of the year, and their predictions for the coming one. Here's what we heard. Interviews have been edited.
Lawrence Schlossman, 35, and James Harris, 36
Who's the coolest person in Los Angeles?
Mr. Harris: Kevin from Mohawk. The work speaks for itself. He does so many out there projects and executes them in a sick, tasteful way. The man decided to just launch a wine brand, called Loose Wines, and now the juice is loose.
Mr. Schlossman: I'm gonna say Nick Dierl. He's the most connected man in Los Angeles; he's the mayor. Every good restaurant, he has the batline. Whether it's Horses or Jitlada, he's the guy who'll get you the res with a moment's notice. What shows coolness like getting a reservation on a dime?
What will be the unexpected trend of 2023?
Mr. Schlossman: Leather for me. Pants, shirts, jackets. It never really went away. I'm just really drawn to that stuff. I just love the idea of a dude in leather.
Mr. Harris: I think it'll be casual grills. Nothing serious. Nothing too heavy, keep the hardware light. Maybe it's a one-piece or a two-piece.
Kevin Carney, 53
Who's the coolest person in Los Angeles?
Donald Glover. I think he's an amazing all-around Renaissance man. He does so many things so well. I look up to him for that. Style, cinema, writing, dialogue, everything he does.
Do you have any resolutions?
I want to work more with my hands. I want to garden more. Getting dirty with my hands gives me so much pleasure and, at the end of the day, if I'm covered in dirt I've had a better day than if I'm wearing some cool outfit.
Jimmy Alexander, 36
Who's the coolest person in Los Angeles?
My therapist. He's a great listener. That's part of being cool, being a good listener.
What's a trend that you want to see die with the end of the year?
I can say what I hope, which is safety and cynicism is a trend I'd like to see go. In fashion or design -- I'd like to see more vulnerable stuff. I'd love to see less logos and more individuality and biographical stuff. That's what I'm trying to do, not just a mood board but to tell a story. That's why I love Margiela. You didn't know who he was but, through his work, you knew who he was.
What was the worst outfit you saw this year?
At Paris Fashion Week I met Angus McCloud, who seemed very nice. But he was literally wearing a piece from each luxury house. Like, on his hat he had two bandannas, one being Chanel the other being Louis Vuitton, and then the hat was, like, Dior.
Cody Pham, 27
What's a trend for 2022 that's got to go?
I'm really upset about the parachute pants thing. Because a lot of people put on a big pant and a small shirt and some sneakers and they think they're dressing. I'm not really big on that whole thing right now.
What trends are you excited about for 2023?
I'm actually really liking some of this strange Y2K stuff coming back. Obviously, it's been pretty heavy the last couple of years. But the continuation of the Jean Paul Gaultier, that kind of look and feel. And the old trainers from back then, getting rid of the whole chunky sneaker look. I've always liked an oversized pant with a slim shoe. I like seeing the Vans Half Cab making a comeback.
Do you have any style resolutions for next year?
I think I need to stop shopping but in general, my resolution is to only buy clothes made by my friends.
Marco Martinez, 29
Who's the coolest person in Los Angeles?
Twin Shadow. He's a musical artist who rides motorcycles. I love his music, and I got into motorcycles a few years ago. And I've actually met him, and he's really down-to-earth. Seeing that he was into motorcycles gave me permission to follow my passion with that. I love his personal style, and his live shows are some of the best. And then to have met him and he's this person you look up to and he's down to have a conversation and connect about the things you like is amazing.
What do you think people will be into next year?
I want people to keep appreciating vintage. Vintage is the canvas that a lot of designer pieces come from. It's sustainable, it's easy to acquire.
Do you have any style resolutions for next year?
I just want to buy one piece per season. Just four pieces. This year introduced me to a state of contentment. I'm very content with my wardrobe. And focusing on one piece per season will make me really intentional and buy something I really like.
Gil Campos, 24
What will be a trend in 2023?
I hope that consumers are smarter with what they buy. Companies like Shein are growing in popularity, but at the same time, with Gen Z coming up, they're also becoming more attentive in terms of what they buy.
What's a trend from this year you want to be done with?
Fake angst. It just leads to a pretentious vibe.
Do you have any style resolutions for 2023?
To stop buying shoes. I have like 10, but in reality, I only wear three of four.
Jon Alan, 31
Who's the coolest person in Los Angeles?
Well, the real answer is my girlfriend because she's the best communicator. But the cool answer would be that guy Edgy Albert. He's big on TikTok, he's a men's wear guy. He's very cool, and he's very sincere and very much a real person.
What's a trend from this year you want to be done?
Live podcast tapings where you buy tickets to go see a recording. It's just really weird. Like, you've kind of paid money to go eavesdrop on a conversation.
Do you have any style resolutions for yourself for next year?
No, I'm pretty happy with where I'm at right now. I'm happy with how little I've been spending money and how much versatility I've been getting out of my wardrobe. That's always a big thing for me -- versatility. I guess that's the main style resolution for me: continuing the pursuit of versatility and keeping it as light as possible.
Karl Charles, 25
Who's the coolest person in Los Angeles?
I'm honestly still looking for him. He hasn't revealed himself yet. I mean, it could be anyone, I take fashion inspiration from my homie who works up the street at the florist shop. My roommate, Drok -- I take inspiration from him, and he takes it from me. It's a feedback loop.
What's a trend you think will be big next year?
I love the way that denim is coming back. I love people getting into cuts and fits and silhouettes.
What trend do you want to die with 2022?
I really want logos to end. Any type of embroidery work or block-printing, or dyeing -- let's do that. I don't need someone signaling to me where they bought something.
Do you have any style resolutions for next year?
Just to keep learning and fill in the gaps in my wardrobe. Like, if denim is going to be big next year, then accessory items for denim will be bigger, like key chains or T-shirts, or boots. Just building that world.
Photograph Fans of the podcast "Throwing Fits" and other revelers gathered in Mohawk General Store, a carefully curated boutique in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL RAINES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST8.

Subject: Denim; Trends

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/21/style/worst-trends-2022-throwing-fits.html

Title: Cool People, Awful Trends and a Few Predictions:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 1, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2759760567

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cool-people-awful-trends-few-predictions/docview/2759760567/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions