____________________________________________________________

What the Rich Wear While Out Getting Groceries: [Style Desk]

Author: Zucker, Andrew

Publication info: Zucker, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-rich-wear-while-out-getting-groceries/docview/2918856520/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As a personal assistant to a well-to-do retiree, Nora Szigeti is tasked with much of the usual fare: managing a calendar, booking travel, running errands. But after her 70-year-old boss recently came across an Instagram post shared by the account Class of Palm Beach, which documents outfits people have worn around that wealthy town, she took on another duty: publicist.
"My boss would be a perfect person for your site," Ms. Szigeti, 50, recalled writing in a message to the account in November. Soon after, her employer, Oblio Wish, appeared in a video shared by Class of Palm Beach, in which she showed off her wardrobe full of items from Dior, Gucci and Chanel.
She is one of the hundreds of Palm Beach residents and visitors -- whose ages have ranged from 20-something to 80-something -- who have been featured on Class of Palm Beach's Instagram, TikTok and Facebook accounts since they were started last March. Its accounts on those three platforms now have a combined audience of more than one million followers.
On the 14-mile-long island, Class of Palm Beach functions for some as a sort of social-media-age Shiny Sheet, a nickname for the Palm Beach Daily News, a paper that fills its pages with photographs from society galas and luncheons.
For others, like Ms. Szigeti, its accounts offer a near-daily glimpse into how the ultrarich dress. (A report from the U.S. Census Bureau listed the median household income in Palm Beach between 2018 and 2022 as $ 190,824.) Brunello Cucinelli, Zimmermann, and Hermès are names often uttered by people featured on the Class of Palm Beach accounts, many of whom can be seen clutching Chanel bags.
"For them, it's so ordinary: 'Oh, today I'm wearing a Rolex, and it's just a Birkin,"' Ms. Szigeti said of how casually some of the accounts' subjects can refer to watches and bags most people only dream of owning. "I have to save up two years to buy even half the Birkin."
Devorah Ezagui, 28, who lived in Palm Beach for part of her childhood, started the Class of Palm Beach accounts after moving back to the area last year. She had previously been living in New York, where she had been juggling personal training and marketing gigs, and where she would often ask people on the street about their outfits, she said.
The fashion in Palm Beach involves the same labels worn in other wealthy enclaves, but the way people wear them evokes a certain lifestyle, Ms. Ezagui said. The accounts, she added, were meant to showcase that lifestyle and offer an escape, as well as fashion inspiration.
Alanna Strei, a real estate agent in San Diego who discovered Class of Palm Beach on Instagram, said she appreciated its aesthetic of "old money glam" and its aspirational tone. Ms. Strei added that she also likes how the account features a breadth of people, not just "Real Housewives of Miami" types, as she put it.
Ms. Ezagui's videos for Class of Palm Beach are mostly man-on-the-street interviews in which she probes subjects about their clothes, accessories and fragrances while filming them on her iPhone. The approach is similar to that of other social media accounts that have started documenting outfits in well-heeled locations like Madison Avenue in New York and Greenwich, Conn.
Ms. Ezagui, whose wardrobe includes Celine flats and Maison Margiela denim shorts, is also a personal stylist to clients in the Palm Beach and New York areas. She said she spent at least four hours a day managing the Class of Palm Beach accounts, which have shared sponsored posts paid for by brands.
The accounts have also featured a few of the clients Ms. Ezagui has styled, she said, but most subjects are strangers she has encountered while out and about, whether shopping at a local Publix grocery store or at stores on Worth Avenue, a ritzy retail strip.
Though she has been to Mar-a-Lago, the residence of former President Donald J. Trump, she has yet to document any outfits there. "It was actually something I wanted to look into," she said. But there are "strict rules" about "going over to other people's tables" at the private club, she added.
The types of people she looks for have effervescent personalities and appear to have "really put intention into their outfit," she said. Ms. Ezagui added that about 70 percent of those she has asked to feature have agreed.
Most of those people are white women, a trend some followers of the accounts have pointed out in comments. Ms. Ezagui said the demographics of those featured was less reflective of her choices than it was of Palm Beach's population. A recent Census Bureau report found that about 94 percent of the town's residents were white and zero percent were Black.
"There's not everybody in this area," Ms. Ezagui said.
Some followers have also asked that she focus on a younger crowd. But Ms. Ezagui said that videos of older subjects reliably got more attention. "I know what will do well," she said.
On a rainy Saturday in January, as she was walking along Worth Avenue, Ms. Ezagui stopped to praise the outfit of a passerby, Carolina Paulino, who was wearing Zimmermann separates, Loro Piana shoes, an Hermès handbag and Cartier bracelets. Then came the question: Would she want to be filmed for a video?
Ms. Paulino, 28, who had come to have lunch in Palm Beach from Miami, agreed. She later said the outfit she was wearing was meant to evoke a "vibe of luxury, but beach."
Ms. Ezagui said that some people had asked her to feature fewer subjects in designer clothes and more in stylish items from affordable retailers like TJ Maxx. But to her, luxurious labels are a key element to Class of Palm Beach's success.
"People are trying to look for inspiration," she said.
Photograph Clockwise from top left: Carolina Paulino with an Hermès handbag and Cartier bracelets; Devorah Ezagui, who created Class of Palm Beach; Ms. Ezagui, left, filming Ms. Paulino; and Palm Beach pedestrians. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES JACKMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST2.

Subject: Clothing; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Bureau of the Census; NAICS: 926110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/20/style/class-of-palm-beach-tiktok-instagram-wealth.html

Title: What the Rich Wear While Out Getting Groceries:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918856520

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-rich-wear-while-out-getting-groceries/docview/2918856520/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When Elton John Declutters: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Small, Zachary

Publication info: Small, Zachary. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-elton-john-declutters/docview/2912925166/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elton John is downsizing -- and the superstar's former penthouse residence in Atlanta has been emptied for a series of auctions at Christie's starting on Feb. 21. The items are expected to bring in an estimated $ 10 million.
Want the Yamaha conservatory grand piano where the Rocketman plunked the keys of his Broadway shows "Billy Elliot" and "Aida?" It will cost roughly triple what similar models sell for online, with a high estimate of $ 50,000.
How about Julian Schnabel's portrait of the superstar dressed in a gown and ruffled collar? The auction house is seeking $ 300,000.
And the most expensive object, a 2017 Banksy painting of a masked man hurling a bouquet of flowers, secured directly from the anonymous artist, is expected to sell for nearly $ 1.5 million.
John declined to comment on the auction. (Agostino Guerra, a Christie's spokesman, cited "long-planned scheduling conflicts.") However, the singer's husband and manager, David Furnish, discussed the sale in a recent interview.
"As time went on, the walls got more full," Furnish said. "Elton never put things in drawers, he bought them to live with his art."
But the sale of their 13,000-plus-square-foot Atlanta residence, on the 36th floor, for more than $ 7.2 million last fall gave the couple an opportunity to consolidate their collection of artworks and mementos, which includes the singer's famous sunglasses, silvery platform boots and one of his first sets of stage clothes -- an ivory and gold ensemble made by the textile designer Annie Reavey in the 1970s.
"I met Elton John and we just hit it off," Reavey said in a 2007 interview in a Nevada newspaper. "I had purple hair, he had green hair. I had rhinestones, he had diamonds."
The condominium on Peachtree Road symbolized a turning point for the British singer. He bought the two-story abode in the 1990s. It served as his American headquarters during tours and a hideaway for staying sober through the 1990s. But the walls were soon populated with dozens of photographs -- part of an extensive collection of images by modern masters like Dorothea Lange, whose Depression-era images of despair include "Migrant Mother," and the Hungarian photographer Andre Kertesz. John also collected works by Andy Warhol, Cindy Sherman, Robert Mapplethorpe and others that now have museums clamoring for donations.
Above his bed, he displayed "Noire et Blanche," images by the surrealist photographer Man Ray.
"I love living with my collection," John said in a video promoting an exhibition of his works at the Tate Modern in 2016. "I'm seeing these wonderful images on the wall that people took a long time ago that still have relevance and still scream out at you."
When part of his collection was exhibited at the Tate Modern, "what surprised most was its depth," said Shanay Jhaveri, head of visual arts at the Barbican Center in London. "For someone whose public persona has been so indelibly associated with excess and kitsch, a collection of predominantly black-and-white, modestly scaled Western modernist photographs seemed inconsistent. Perhaps the revelation was this apparent irreconcilability."
Atlanta was where John cultivated that love of photography, thanks largely to a local gallerist named Jane Jackson. (In 2003, she became the director of the Sir Elton John Photography Collection, which now includes thousands of images.) Some highlights featured in a 2000 exhibition, "Chorus of Light" at the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, are being offered at the Christie's auction, including works by Irving Penn, Richard Avedon and Andres Serrano.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
"The collection was very disciplined," said Ned Rifkin, who curated the High Museum exhibition and developed a working relationship with the singer. "It wasn't just about acquisitions but the beauty of having art."
"I remember there were times he would go to auction and he was genuinely frustrated when he couldn't get something," Rifkin, now retired, added. "I'm disappointed to hear he is selling, but on the other hand, he has so much."
The singer's husband said it was time to start pruning the collection.
"You have to reach a stage where you can't just continue to accumulate," Furnish explained. "Elton hates parting with things. It is a very emotional decision."
To that end, Furnish has been the one to primarily handle the auction, which is the first time that a major selection from John's collection has been offered to the public since a 2003 Sotheby's sale of items from his London home (it brought in $ 1.67 million.) In 1988, another Sotheby's auction in London presented a hodgepodge of artworks and oddities -- including a Magritte painting of a blue fish wrapped in pearls, a chamber pot and a pair of Cartier silver baskets that John once used as soap dishes -- fetching $ 8.2 million, or about $ 21 million in today's dollars.
Now, John and Furnish decided to partner with the auction house's rivals.
"This was a competitive situation," said Tash Perrin, Christie's deputy chairman organizing the sale, who helped broker the deal. "It coincides with Elton closing a chapter of spending his time in the States."
Perrin said that most of the 900 items being auctioned would have modest prices. Many are being offered for a few thousand dollars, including everything from the portraits by Lange to jeweled rings to Versace dinnerware.
But as recent celebrity auctions have demonstrated, collectors have no qualms about spending gonzo dollars on the knickknacks of their pop idols. Last year's auction of belongings from the rock vocalist Freddie Mercury at Sotheby's reach $ 50.4 million, more than tripling its initial high estimate of $ 14.2. Bidders fought over everything from a silver mustache comb to cat ornaments and a neon telephone.
During a turbulent market, auction houses have increased their promotion of these celebrity auctions, with the recent sales of items owned by the newscaster Barbara Walters, the fashion editor André Leon Talley, the French actor Gérard Depardieu and the Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, each bringing in millions of dollars.
Furnish said the John sale was designed to start their own thinking about the singer's legacy, as John stepped back from performing to spend more time with their sons, Elijah and Zachary. "That could mean more sales, gifts to institutions, gifts to friends," Furnish said.
"One reason we have been able to collect is because artists know that when they sell to us, their work is going to a home," Furnish added. He acknowledged that in the future, "as our sons get older, they might have connections to pieces. We need to elegantly find a way of bringing them into that process."
Photograph Elton John memorabilia up for bid at Christie's auctions beginning on Feb. 21 includes silver leather platform boots, circa 1971, and a pair of prescription sunglasses by Sir Winston Eyeware. (C1); Highlights from the Elton John auction, including top, Banksy's "Flower Thrower Triptych" (2010), estimated at $ 1 million to $ 1.5 million. Jewelry, from left: a Cartier sapphire ring, a diamond necklace and a sapphire-and-diamond necklace. Above, a 1971 touring costume designed by Annie Reavey. Below, part of a Versace "Medusa Red" Rosenthal porcelain dinnerware set. Christie's estimates its auctions of the superstar's belongings will bring in $ 10 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Diamonds; Auctions; Photographs; Celebrities; Art galleries & museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

People: John, Elton; Banksy

Company / organization: Name: Sothebys; NAICS: 459920; Name: Gianni Versace SpA; NAICS: 315250, 334519

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/11/arts/design/elton-john-auction-artworks-atlanta.html

Title: When Elton John Declutters:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 11, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2912925166

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-elton-john-declutters/docview/2912925166/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Goodbye, Peachtree Road: Elton John to Auction 900 Artworks and Memorabilia

Author: Small, Zachary

Publication info: Small, Zachary. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/goodbye-peachtree-road-elton-john-auction-900/docview/2912869878/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Elton John is downsizing — and the superstar’s former penthouse residence in Atlanta has been emptied for a series of auctions at Christie’s starting Feb. 21. The items are expected to bring in an estimated $10 million.
Want the Yamaha conservatory grand piano where the Rocketman plunked the keys of his Broadway shows “Billy Elliot” and “Aida?” It will cost roughly triple what similar models sell for online, with a high estimate of $50,000.
How about Julian Schnabel’s portrait of the superstar dressed in a gown and ruffled collar? The auction house is seeking $300,000.
And the most expensive object, a 2017 Banksy painting of a masked man hurling a bouquet of flowers, secured directly from the anonymous artist, is expected to sell for nearly $1.5 million.
John declined to comment on the auction. (Agostino Guerra, a Christie’s spokesperson, cited “long-planned scheduling conflicts.”) However, the singer’s husband and manager, David Furnish, discussed the sale in a recent interview.
“As time went on, the walls got more full,” Furnish said. “Elton never put things in drawers; he bought them to live with his art.”
But the sale of their 13,000-plus-square-foot Atlanta residence, on the 36th floor, for more than $7.2 million last fall gave the couple an opportunity to consolidate their collection of artworks and mementos, which includes the singer’s famous sunglasses, silvery platform boots and one of his first sets of stage clothes — an ivory and gold ensemble made by textile designer Annie Reavey in the 1970s.
“I met Elton John and we just hit it off,” Reavey said in a 2007 interview in a Nevada newspaper. “I had purple hair, he had green hair. I had rhinestones, he had diamonds.”
The condominium on Peachtree Road symbolized a turning point for the British singer. He bought the two-story abode in the 1990s. It served as his American headquarters during tours and a hideaway for staying sober through the 1990s. But the walls were soon populated with dozens of photographs — part of an extensive collection of images by modern masters including Dorothea Lange, whose Depression-era images of despair include “Migrant Mother,” and Hungarian photographer Andre Kertesz. John also collected works by Andy Warhol, Cindy Sherman, Robert Mapplethorpe and others that now have museums clamoring for donations.
Above his bed, he displayed “Noire et Blanche,” images by surrealist photographer Man Ray.
“I love living with my collection,” John said in a video promoting an exhibition of his works at the Tate Modern in London in 2016. “I’m seeing these wonderful images on the wall that people took a long time ago that still have relevance and still scream out at you.”
When part of his collection was exhibited at the Tate Modern, “what surprised most was its depth,” said Shanay Jhaveri, head of visual arts at the Barbican Center in London. “For someone whose public persona has been so indelibly associated with excess and kitsch, a collection of predominantly black-and-white, modestly scaled Western modernist photographs seemed inconsistent. Perhaps the revelation was this apparent irreconcilability.”
Atlanta was where John cultivated that love of photography, thanks largely to a local gallerist, Jane Jackson. (In 2003, she became the director of the Sir Elton John Photography Collection, which now includes thousands of images.) Some highlights featured in a 2000 exhibition, “Chorus of Light” at the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, are being offered at the Christie’s auction, including works by Irving Penn, Richard Avedon and Andres Serrano.
“The collection was very disciplined,” said Ned Rifkin, who curated the High Museum exhibition and developed a working relationship with the singer. “It wasn’t just about acquisitions but the beauty of having art.” Rifkin, now retired, added: “I remember there were times he would go to auction and he was genuinely frustrated when he couldn’t get something. I’m disappointed to hear he is selling, but on the other hand, he has so much.”
The singer’s husband said it was time to start pruning the collection. “You have to reach a stage where you can’t just continue to accumulate,” Furnish explained. “Elton hates parting with things. It is a very emotional decision.”
To that end, Furnish has been the one to primarily handle the auction, which is the first time that a major selection from John’s collection has been offered to the public since a 2003 Sotheby’s sale of items from his London home (it brought in $1.67 million). In 1988, another Sotheby’s auction in London presented a hodgepodge of artworks and oddities — including a René Magritte painting of a blue fish wrapped in pearls, a chamber pot and a pair of Cartier silver baskets that John once used as soap dishes — fetching $8.2 million, or about $21 million in today’s dollars.
Now, John and Furnish decided to team with the auction house’s rivals.
“This was a competitive situation,” said Tash Perrin, Christie’s deputy chair organizing the sale, who helped broker the deal. “It coincides with Elton closing a chapter of spending his time in the States.” Perrin said that most of the 900 items being auctioned would have modest prices. Many are being offered for a few thousand dollars, including the Lange portraits, jeweled rings and Versace dinnerware.
But as recent celebrity auctions have shown, collectors have no qualms about spending gonzo dollars on the knickknacks of their pop idols. Last year’s auction of belongings from Queen co-founder Freddie Mercury at Sotheby’s reached $50.4 million, more than tripling its initial high estimate of $14.2 million. Bidders fought over items like a silver mustache comb, cat ornaments and a neon telephone.
During a turbulent market, auction houses have increased their promotion of these celebrity auctions, with the recent sales of items owned by newscaster Barbara Walters, fashion editor André Leon Talley, French actor Gérard Depardieu and Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, each bringing in millions of dollars.
Furnish said the John sale was meant to start their own thinking about the singer’s legacy, as John stepped back from performing to spend more time with their sons, Elijah and Zachary.
“That could mean more sales, gifts to institutions, gifts to friends,” Furnish said. “One reason we have been able to collect is because artists know that when they sell to us, their work is going to a home,” Furnish added. He acknowledged: “As our sons get older, they might have connections to pieces. We need to elegantly find a way of bringing them into that process.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Auctions; Diamonds; Celebrities; Art galleries & museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: New York; United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

People: John, Elton; Banksy

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Gianni Versace SpA; NAICS: 315250, 334519

Identifier / keyword: Entertainment; Warhol, Andy; Photography; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Museums; John, Elton; Ginsburg, Ruth Bader; Queen (Music Group); France; Tate Modern; Ray, Man; Arts; Banksy; Serrano, Andres; Great Britain; London (England); Nevada; Hair; Finances; High Museum Of Art; Jewels And Jewelry; Auctions; Barbican Center; Art; Music; Mapplethorpe, Robert; Schnabel, Julian; E Commerce; Fashion And Apparel; Avedon, Richard; Nineteen Hundred Nineties; Sherman, Cindy; Hungary; Theater; Atlanta (Ga); Lange, Dorothea; Versace, Gianni, Spa; Artworks; Penn, Irving; Collectors And Collections; Pop And Rock Music; Walters, Barbara; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Mercury, Freddie; Memorabilia And Souvenirs; Supreme Court (Us); Furnish, David J; Kertesz, Andre

Title: Goodbye, Peachtree Road: Elton John to Auction 900 Artworks and Memorabilia

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 11, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-11T02:00:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2912869878

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/goodbye-peachtree-road-elton-john-auction-900/docview/2912869878/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Creatively Inspired By Africa: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Abdi Latif Dahir; Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie; Ibekwe, Desiree; Paton, Elizabeth; Chutel, Lynsey; Adesina, Precious

Publication info: Abdi Latif Dahir; Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie; Ibekwe, Desiree; Paton, Elizabeth; Chutel, Lynsey; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creatively-inspired-africa/docview/2910905135/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This is part of a series on how Africa's youth boom is changing the continent, and beyond.
For centuries, the connection between Black people on and off the continent of Africa has been complex, bound up in a painful history of slavery, separation and, at times, suspicion. Yet the relationship has also thrived.
In 1964, Malcolm X visited Ghana. In a speech at a university there, he said: "I don't feel that I am a visitor in Ghana or in any part of Africa. I feel that I am at home. I've been away for 400 years, but not of my own volition, not of my own will."
For young people today, the relationship is more direct. There's a reciprocity of inspiration, fueled by a multitude of creative efforts and propelled by social media platforms like TikTok.
Examples are plenty. Resonant movies like "Black Panther" and majestic portraits by artists like Kehinde Wiley and Omar Victor Diop. Nigeria's hilarious pulp movies, which are binged in homes across Europe and the Caribbean. And the Afro-Pop songs of Kenya's Sauti Sol and the Afrobeats sounds of Tems, Burna Boy and Mr Eazi. In 2022 alone, Afrobeats artists were streamed more than 13 billion times on Spotify.
For this project, we spoke to 12 leading creators from Africa, Asia, Europe and the United States. They include a two-time Oscar winner and first-time filmmakers, a Michelin star chef and a best-selling author, a fashion designer and an architect, a visual artist and a pop star. For them, Africa is the motherland, the source from which they draw. They are part of the global web of creatives who are making the world more African.
"I don't separate the Black diaspora from the Blacks on the continent," the writer Nnedi Okorafor told us. "I speak about Blacks, globally, collectively. For many years, that was my personal definition of the Black diaspora: every Black person on the planet."
-- Abdi Latif Dahir and Veronica Chambers
Ruth E. Carter
The costume designer and two-time Oscar winner has propelled Afrofuturism into the fashion mainstream with her work on "Black Panther" and "Wakanda Forever."
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Gioncarlo Valentine for The New York Times
"A costume designer is, first and foremost, a storyteller," said Ruth E. Carter.
Carter, 63, was the first Black person to win an Oscar in the costuming category, for the 2018 film "Black Panther." When she took home her second Academy Award in March, for "Black Panther: Wakanda Forever," she also became the first person to win for both an original movie and its sequel.
Wakanda, the world of the "Black Panther" films, is a fictional African kingdom, reimagined without the footprint of colonization. Carter borrowed from Indigenous cultures across the continent for her designs: Buyers during pre-production sourced tribal artifacts including Dogon masks from Mali, Himba crowns from Namibia, Maasai beading from Kenya and stacked neck rings worn by Ndebele women from South Africa. Carter also drew inspiration from contemporary African fashion designers such as Laduma Ngxokolo, the founder of the South African knitwear brand MaXhosa Africa, and the Ghanaian British tailor Ozwald Boateng, and scouted streetwear at the Afropunk music festival in Johannesburg to see new trends firsthand.
"There is not and never was a singular African aesthetic," Carter said.
For the designer, trailblazing has become something of a habit: Through her work over the last three decades on films including "Malcolm X," "Amistad" and Marvel blockbusters, she has definitively shaped how stories of Black history and culture are represented on the big screen.
Among the sources of inspiration Carter cites are the artist Romare Bearden, whose collages (top) influenced her work on Spike Lee's films, and the Afropunk Festival (bottom), which contributed to her vision for the "Black Panther" films.
"When you're representing cultures and representing yourself -- it's never a burden, it's a joy -- but the pressure to get it right is like a calling," Carter said recently from her home in Los Angeles.
Carter, who grew up in Massachusetts, the youngest of eight children raised by a single mother, took her first sewing class at her local Boys and Girls Club. After graduating from Hampton University, a historically Black college in Virginia, she worked in theater and opera before moving in 1986 to Los Angeles, where she met the director Spike Lee; her first movie, one of many collaborations with Lee, was 1988's "School Daze."
Even when she's not outfitting Afrofuturist realms, Carter is always looking to Africa and its diaspora for inspiration. For period pieces, she turns to "The Image of the Black in Western Art," a 10-book series that features thousands of images of people of African descent from across four millenniums. For many of her collaborations with Lee, such as "Do the Right Thing" and "Jungle Fever," she looked to the artist Romare Bearden, known for his collage scenes of city life and the American South. And for "Mo' Better Blues," Carter focused on the personal style of jazz musicians such as Dexter Gordon, Thelonious Monk and Miles Davis.
"It is always important to me to be inspired by something or someone real," she said. "I search for tiny human details that I can uncover and then apply to my characters."
Carter's designs don't just bring the Black diaspora together: Her work, particularly on "Black Panther," has helped propel Afrofuturism into the fashion mainstream, inspiring Serena Williams's French Open catsuit, fan merch and presentations at New York Fashion Week.
"We honor the culture, but we also move it forward," said Carter.
"When you're representing cultures and representing yourself -- it's never a burden, it's a joy -- but the pressure to get it right is like a calling." -- Ruth E. Carter
Mr Eazi
With over a billion streams, the Nigerian native's Afrobeats music is helping reshape global narratives about Africa.
By Desiree Ibekwe
Photo by Rasaan Wyzard for The New York Times
"Where is home?" is not a simple question for the Nigerian musician Mr Eazi.
"The plane," he said, joking, on a video call from New York. Then, more seriously: "I think home is anywhere I have family, so that switches between Accra, London, Cotonou, Lagos and Dubai."
Mr Eazi, 32, was born Oluwatosin Oluwole Ajibade in Port Harcourt, Nigeria. But his life and career have been marked by a connection to the world outside his native country. The first time Mr Eazi entered a recording studio, he was studying mechanical engineering at a university in Kumasi, Ghana. (It was there that he got the name Mr Eazi: He'd reportedly break up fights, saying, "Take it easy, take it easy.") He performed in Brooklyn in 2016 -- invited by the rapper Lauryn Hill -- before, he said, he had ever done a show in Nigeria. And he was featured on the 2019 "Lion King" soundtrack and has appeared on songs with the Colombian singer J Balvin, the Puerto Rican rapper Bad Bunny and the Jamaican artist Popcaan, as well as Nicki Minaj and Diplo.
Mr Eazi gained popularity in the mid-to-late 2010s with catchy Afrobeats songs such as "Skin Tight" and "Leg Over." He described the sound of those early songs as Banku, a melting pot of Ghanaian highlife music with Nigerian chord progressions.
His initial success came at a time when Nigerian artists like WizKid were breaking through to Western audiences due, in part, to social media, cosigns by international artists -- and the diaspora.
His sound was distinctive among his peers. "Many of the most popular Afrobeats artists -- such as Wizkid, Davido, and Patoranking -- wield an upbeat vocal tempo," Lawrence Burney wrote for Vice in 2016. Mr Eazi, in contrast, used his "deep hum of a voice to give ballad-like qualities to dance-forward production."
Africans in Britain were instrumental to Mr Eazi's early success. "For me, outside of Ghana, the next place that embraced my music was the U.K.," he said. Young Black students were the first to gravitate toward his music, inviting him to perform for their African Caribbean Societies -- campus associations that play a large role in the lives of many Black people studying at British universities. "These were the ones defining what it is to be cool and embracing their Africanness," he said. "That was the foundation of the African diaspora pushing the music."
For his newest album, "The Evil Genius," Mr Eazi commissioned original pieces by African artists that correspond with each track. Sesse Elangwe, a Cameroonian artist based in Texas, created "The Way I See It" as an interpretation of the song "Chop Time, No Friend."
While Mr Eazi has been releasing singles, collaborations and mixtapes -- with well over a billion streams online -- it wasn't until October of this year that he released what he called his debut studio album, "The Evil Genius." Recorded in Africa, Britain and the United States, the songs trace a narrative of loneliness, romance and community. Mr Eazi commissioned pieces to visually represent each track from 13 African artists, which were exhibited at shows in Great Britain and Ghana.
"People are discovering Africa first, not through the lens of CNN or The New York Times," he said, but rather "through the lens of the music."
"Home is anywhere I have family, so that switches between Accra, London, Cotonou, Lagos and Dubai." -- Mr Eazi
Zhong Feifei
The Congolese Chinese singer and model has 1.6 million followers on the Chinese social media platform Weibo.
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Johnny Chiang
In a country where blending in is often of value, Zhong Feifei stands out.
"Often the world tells biracial kids that our existence is a 50-50 thing -- that you can only ever be less than a whole or not enough," the singer and model said from her home in Shanghai last month. "But I feel 100 percent Congolese and 100 percent Chinese. For anyone of mixed heritage, there is great power when you can harness that mindset about your identity."
Several million Chinese workers have migrated to the African continent in recent decades, while an estimated 500,000 African migrants live in China. Zhong, 27, whose mother is Chinese and whose late father was Congolese, is part of a new generation to emerge from this global economic trend, with a childhood split between two worlds. After her birth in Guangzhou, she spent her earliest years in the Republic of Congo, before civil war prompted her parents to send her to Shanghai at 5 to be brought up by her "very traditional Chinese grandmother," Zhong said.
At 14, she left China to join her mother in Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where she discovered a love of Afrobeats musicians such as Burna Boy and Davido as well as groups like TPOK Jazz. She moved to the United States at 18, in 2014, to attend Boston University; at the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, she returned to China, where she ended up finishing a masters from Johns Hopkins University in global security studies online -- while also appearing on a hit reality show called "Produce Camp 2020." Modeled after a cult Korean music competition program, the show pits aspiring Chinese performers against each other, with the eventual winners forming a new girl group.
Zhong grew up admiring the model and businesswoman Kimora Lee Simmons, whose multiracial background mirrors Zhong's.
Zhong didn't make the final cut. But as the first mixed race Black contestant, her appearance provoked a firestorm on the Chinese social media platform Weibo; she has subsequently developed a considerable fanbase, with 1.6 million Weibo followers, despite endemic racism in China.
"I used to want to work at an N.G.O. but for now I think I can have more influence in the pop culture sphere when it comes to 'Blasian' representation, both in China and beyond -- even Hollywood," she said, citing the American former model and businesswoman Kimora Lee Simmons and the British supermodel Naomi Campbell as models for how to grow her career in the public sphere while celebrating her heritage. Zhong released a solo hip-hop track, "B.U.R.N.," in 2020. The following year, she was the first African Chinese model to be featured in a Vogue China cover story, and in 2022 she was the model and producer for the first campaign shot in the Congo in Vogue's 130-year history, for a spread showcasing Congolese designs. Lately, she has been working with Western brands such as Cartier and Fenty Beauty, as well as Chinese labels like Private Policy. Her motivation is to encourage people to chase dreams in spaces where they are not typically seen.
"In China, it feels like there is no one with any public profile who looks like me," Zhong said. "But more and more people who look like me do exist, here and all over the world. They need to feel represented."
"Often the world tells biracial kids that our existence is a 50-50 thing -- that you can only ever be less than a whole or not enough. But I feel 100 percent Congolese and 100 percent Chinese." -- Zhong Feifei
Nnedi Okorafor
Twenty years ago, American publishers thought the work of the sci-fi novelist was unrelatable. This year, she signed a seven-figure deal for her next book.
By Charlie Brinkhurst-Cuff
Photo by Chanell Stone for The New York Times
When Nnedi Okorafor signed a seven-figure deal earlier this year for her newest novel, "The Africanfuturist," it was the achievement of a dream three decades in the making.
The book, scheduled to publish in 2025, is the kind of story Okorafor, 49, has always wanted to write, and one she said she never would have been able to sell when she was starting out in the early 2000s. American publishers then didn't know what to make of her stories, many of which blend African folklore with science fiction, fantasy and magical realism, and repeatedly rejected them as confusing or unrelatable. Once her books found a home, however, they proved irresistible to readers. Her nearly two dozen works of fiction have earned Okorafor a slew of honors -- four Hugos, a Nebula, a World Fantasy Award. And a new generation of American storytellers who explicitly use their African heritage, history and mythology to inspire their work have followed in her wake, including Tomi Adeyemi, Ayana Gray, Jordan Ifueko and Namina Forna.
Okorafor, who lives in Phoenix, has long viewed herself as a bridge between two cultures. She was born in Cincinnati to Nigerian parents whose mindset was: "We're American. But we'll always be Nigerian; we'll always want that connection," Okorafor said. "My mom kept her accent on purpose."
In her writing, Okorafor draws on West African myths and figures, like the water spirit Mami Wata. The Kenyan artist Wangechi Mutu evoked the siren figure in her 2017 bronze sculpture "Water Woman."
That connection is the heartbeat of Okorafor's work, from her sci-fi fantasy novel "Who Fears Death," set in a post-apocalyptic fictional African nation, to a three-issue arc of Marvel Comics's Black Panther series. She does extensive research for each of her books and anchors her fantastical stories in traditional West African myths: For example, her "Akata" trilogy, about a Nigerian American albino girl with magical powers, features the mermaid-like Mami Wata, the spider deity Udide, the trickster spirit Ekwensu and Nsibidi symbols, all of which are drawn from Nigerian folklore.
Diasporic folktales also run through Okorafor's work. She started writing at 19, when she was temporarily paralyzed after a surgery to treat scoliosis went wrong. Her first short story, written from her hospital bed, was about a flying woman -- a character that allowed her to transcend her own physical limitations. Years later, Okorafor came across the folktale of the Flying Africans, enslaved people in the United States who could fly and used their powers to return to Africa; the myth helped inspire her first published novel, "Zahrah the Windseeker," about a 13-year-old girl who learns to fly, which won the Wole Soyinka Prize for Literature in Africa in 2008.
As more publishers embrace the artistic and commercial value of African stories, what was once a lonely perch for Okorafor and writers like her has become a beautifully crowded one. Okorafor is excited at the prospect of more literature that speaks to diasporic themes, and of more storytelling directly from Africa. "I'm separate from the continent, but I'm very much connected," she said. "Some of my connections may be a little spotty, weird and indirect. But that back and forth is strong."
"We're American. But we'll always be Nigerian; we'll always want that connection." -- Nnedi Okorafor
Omar Victor Diop
History, inheritance and possibility are re-imagined through the lens of the Senegalese photographer, one of the most successful young artists on the continent.
By Abdi Latif Dahir
Photo by Cédrine Scheidig for The New York Times
In one of his famed self-portraits, Omar Victor Diop, a Senegalese photographer and artist, wears a three-piece suit and an extravagant paisley bow tie, preparing to blow a yellow, plastic whistle. The elaborately staged photograph evokes the memory of Frederick Douglass, the one-time fugitive slave who in the 19th century rose to become a leading abolitionist, activist, writer and orator, as well as the first African American to be nominated for vice president of the United States.
Diop is no stranger to portraying the aches and hopes of Black people across the world. Throughout his oeuvre, which incorporates historical references and costumes, he has highlighted the vital role of Black and African figures in world history, celebrated the dignity of African migrants and refugees, weaved together the history of Black protests from the Selma march to the Soweto uprising in South Africa, and examined the impact of climate change on Africa and the Global South.
Through his bold images, Diop examines the interplay between African and diasporic experiences by knitting together the past and present.
"I am fascinated and surprised about how Africa is still present in everything an African American would do; they don't even realize it," said Diop, who lives and works in Dakar and Paris. "Sometimes you look at an African American in reality TV and you happen to be looking at your sisters and your aunts because of the expressions -- it's translated and said in English, but she could be in Dakar, speaking Wolof."
In a 2015 self-portrait (top), from Diop's series "Project Diaspora," the artist emulates Frederick Douglass, who was the most photographed man of his era. Douglass sat for over 160 portraits, including a daguerreotype circa 1855 (bottom), to challenge negative representations of African Americans.
Diop is interested in creating connection and community through his work, while also using history to bridge the experiences of people of African descent. By highlighting figures like Douglass or events such as the Women's War in Nigeria, he said, he hoped to not only kickstart a conversation within the upcoming generation but also deepen the relationship between Africa and the diaspora.
"There are so many inspiring stories that can have significant resonance on the continent and vice versa," he said. "I think that there is an absolute need for more interaction. We don't even know each other enough."
Diop was born in Dakar in 1980 to a father who is a chartered accountant and a mother who is a lawyer. He became a full-time artist over a decade ago, after years of studying finance in Senegal and France and working in corporate communications in Dakar, Nairobi and Lagos.
The self-taught Diop, whose tableaux have been exhibited all over the world, builds on the rich tradition of the West African studio portraiture practiced by artists like Mama Casset (Senegal), Malick Sidibé (Mali) and Samuel Fosso (Nigeria). But his work is not bound by the traditions of studio photography: As he embarks on a project, Diop obsessively reads about his subjects, talks to historians and even tries to replicate his subjects' sartorial choices, such as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s suits or Trayvon Martin's hooded sweatshirt.
"The imagery of fashion, the language of fashion is a tool for me to enter the minds" of viewers, he said. "It's creating an image that is very attractive as a way to camouflage the heavy subjects that I am bringing. And it is also a way for me to celebrate the memory that I am bringing."
In early October, Diop announced a new project called "Being There," which explores the place of race and identity in America in the years following World War II.
Diop is also planning on producing educational materials, including books and games, that will engage young African and diasporic audiences on issues like art and climate change. He hopes to show how their stories of struggle and success are interconnected across centuries and continents.
"I am a firm believer that there is an African spirit of resilience, of excellence despite everything that has been thrown at us," he said.
"I am fascinated and surprised about how Africa is still present in everything an African American would do; they don't even realize it." -- Omar Victor Diop
Adamma and Adanne Ebo
As filmmakers, the Ebo twin sisters draw inspiration from their American Southern and Nigerian heritage, with a little Japanese anime and "hood classic" cinema thrown in.
By Lynsey Chutel
Photo by Ricardo Nagaoka for The New York Times
For their first feature film, Adamma and Adanne Ebo took on the Black church -- specifically, the Southern Black church. With its vibrant cultural and spiritual expressions, the twin sisters found surprising ties to Nigeria, their father's homeland.
"They say write what you know," Adamma, who wrote and directed "Honk For Jesus. Save Your Soul," said in a recent interview; her twin, Adanne, produced the film.
The movie stars Sterling K. Brown as the fallen pastor of an Atlanta megachurch, and Regina Hall as his pious yet powerful wife. Both actors also signed on as producers, along with the Oscar-award winning actor Daniel Kaluuya; Jordan Peele, the Oscar-winning writer and director of "Get Out," was an executive producer. Among laugh-out-loud moments, the satirical mockumentary delivers an empathetic reflection on church community, and the invisible labor of women that sustains it.
The Ebo sisters' debut feature film, "Honk For Jesus. Save Your Soul," is a satirical look at megachurches, which are influential across the American South and in Nigeria.
"There's a lot of dissonance between the two cultures, but then there's also a lot of overlap," said Adamma, of Nigeria and the American South.
"Church is one of them," Adanne added.
The children of an American mother and Nigerian father, the sisters describe their upbringing in Atlanta as culturally both Southern Black American -- they both played alto sax in a marching band -- and Nigerian.
Adamma and Adanne fell in love with cinema through movies like the anime classic "Kiki's Delivery Service," as well as films they call "hood classics," including "Baby Boy," directed by John Singleton, and the crime saga "Juice" ("criminally underrated"). Like their mother, they attended a historically Black university in the South (their mom is an alumna of Fisk University in Nashville, and the twins went to Spelman College). They haven't traveled to Nigeria, and do not speak their father's native language, Igbo. And yet, the sounds and scents of the home they were raised in were decidedly Nigerian.
The writer and director Adamma Ebo counts "Kiki's Delivery Service" as one of her favorite films and returns to it often. She loves how the Japanese film director Hayao Miyazaki captures moments of stillness between tension and chaos.
"Growing up, we were definitely the African kids," Adamma said, "but definitely not African enough for our Nigerian folks."
In 2022, the sisters signed a multi-year development deal with Disney Television Studios. They are currently working on an animated superhero series and have formed their own production company. Its name, Ejime, means "twin" in Igbo.
"Growing up [in Atlanta], we were definitely the African kids, but definitely not African enough for our Nigerian folks." -- Adamma Ebo
Mory Sacko
At his restaurant MoSuke, in the heart of Paris, the flavors of France, West Africa and Japan are always on the menu.
By Lynsey Chutel
Photo by Felipe Romero Beltrán for The New York Times
On the menu at Mory Sacko's Michelin-starred MoSuke in Paris: a dome of chawanmushi, Japanese steamed egg custard, nestled in a dashi bouillon. Attiéké poisson, a signature Ivorian fish dish, with fermented ground cassava. Plantain served with a foie gras-based albufera sauce and caviar.
Diners may be sitting down in the 14th arrondissement, but they're beginning a journey through a delicate balance of salt, fat, acid and distinctly African influences -- the signature of a chef who describes himself as a French man with Malian heritage and a deep love of Japanese culture. "When you finish all the dishes of the menu," he said, "it's like a trip."
The name of Mory Sacko's restaurant is a combination of his first name with the 16th-century figure Yasuke, the only African Samurai in Japanese history and the subject of multiple comic books and a Netflix series.
A dish from the Michelin star chef: the pépé soup.
The result: Reservations at MoSuke are booked up months in advance. Within a year of opening in 2020, the restaurant won France's first Michelin star for West and Central African cuisine. He scored a victory for culinary diplomacy when President Emmanuel Macron invited him to cook for a banquet of African leaders in 2021. Sacko is a regular face on French television: Although he didn't win, he was a beloved contestant on the French version of "Top Chef," and now hosts "Cuisine Ouverte."
Sacko, 31, grew up in the suburbs of Paris, the sixth of nine children and the first born in France, but was raised on dishes from Mali, the Ivory Coast, Senegal, Guinea and Gabon. "I was born in France. I grew up here, and I am a French guy," he said. "But I have my roots, too."
As a child, Sacko discovered another passion: Japanese manga. Soon he sought out the food of his favorite characters, exotic to his teenage palate. It was the technique and discipline of Japanese cooking that drew him to culinary school at 14. The restaurant's name combines Sacko's first name, Mory, with that of Yasuke, the only African samurai in Japanese history.
After a decade working in Parisian restaurants, Sacko began to question what his own identity looked like on a plate.
France has a storied culinary tradition, and he wanted to record West African food in the same way. He tried to recreate his mother's Malian mafe, a beef dish slowly cooked in a peanut sauce, with chilies, tomatoes and other vegetables. Counterintuitively, it didn't quite taste like his own until he added a decidedly un-African ingredient: miso.
Sacko eschews the term "fusion." "I prefer to have something more sensitive," he said, "like 'a conversation between the cultures."'
"I was born in France. I grew up here, and I am a French guy. But I have my roots, too." -- Mory Sacko
Grace Wales Bonner
With her namesake fashion label, the designer has a mission: usher a proudly African aesthetic to the runway.
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Bafic for The New York Times
In person, the British fashion designer Grace Wales Bonner has a quiet presence about her. But in practice, the radical ambitions behind the luxury house she started in 2014 have generated serious noise.
"The aim with Wales Bonner is to bring Afro-Atlantic spirit into the idea of European luxury and elevate Black representation within fashion," the 33-year-old said last month. "To create a fashion house that represents a broader cultural perspective and connects the dots, in part as a reaction to how Black culture has been represented in fashion history."
The fashion designer conducts extensive research to create modern masterpieces with historical inspiration. Wales Bonner's Spring 2022 menswear collection (bottom) brought in patterns and styles that paid homage to 1970s nightlife in Burkina Faso (top), as captured by the photographer Sanlé Sory.
Fashion is famously an industry that struggles with structural change, adept at mining Black culture for its runways without installing Black talent into meaningful positions of power in either its design studios or its boardrooms. Wales Bonner, who has a white English mother and a Black Jamaican father and describes herself as "mixed race," has been steadily challenging that status quo since she graduated from the famed London design school Central Saint Martins in 2014.
From her earliest years, she has married European couture traditions with inspiration from across the African diaspora: Her menswear melds the formality of Savile Row with motifs such as Rastafarian-striped crochets or cowrie shells, while sprinkling in hat tips to figures like the American writer James Baldwin, the Saint Lucian poet Derek Walcott and the Burkinabe photographer Sanlé Sory, who inspired her spring collection last year. Every collection -- which now also includes women's wear and accessories -- is underpinned by archival research so exhaustive and meticulous that Wales Bonner considers it an "artistic practice unto itself" she said. In high school, she added, she wanted to be a historian.
Using her own mixed heritage as a point of departure, Wales Bonner traces the far-reaching branches of the African diaspora across space and time through clothes. Take her most recent show in June, inspired by long-distance runners, where models including the Ethiopian athletes Tamirat Tola and Yomif Kejelcha walked the runway to live performances by musicians from Ethiopia. Wales Bonner is adept at using canny collaborations to build a sense of power through community, whether she's designing shirts for the Jamaican national soccer teams or producing a capsule collection of T-shirts with the American artist Kerry James Marshall, whose approach to centralizing and refocusing Black figures within the Western art canon "really influenced my own ideas about fashion and beauty," Wales Bonner said.
Together with designers including Virgil Abloh and Ibrahim Kamara, Wales Bonner has made significant strides toward her original mission: to elevate Blackness within high fashion and usher a proudly African aesthetic to the runway. This year, she began showing collections in Paris, the creative and commercial epicenter of luxury fashion, and her name has been floated for high-profile roles at some of the biggest French fashion houses. But her focus now, she said, is on growing her own brand and making it "an important institution, redefining what 'heritage' in luxury can mean in the 21st century."
"It's about engaging with the system but also bringing other elements to it," she said. "I don't see what I do as being an outsider. You can have more influence being part of something and disrupting from within."
"The aim ... is to bring Afro-Atlantic spirit into the idea of European luxury and elevate Black representation within fashion." -- Grace Wales Bonner
Lesley Lokko
As architecture curator of this year's Venice Biennale, Lokko sent the message: Creativity is decidedly not the prerogative of the global North.
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Ronan McKenzie for The New York Times
Venice may be an ancient city of traditional splendor. But visitors to its Architecture Biennale this year are invited into "The Laboratory of the Future." For the first time in the exhibition's 40-year history, the focus is on Africa and the Black diaspora. And its curator is the Ghanaian Scottish architect, academic and novelist Lesley Lokko -- also the Architecture Biennale's first curator of African descent.
Lokko, 59, is the founder of the African Futures Institute, an architecture institution in Accra, Ghana, that brings together teaching, research and public events. She has taught in South Africa, Britain and the United States, pushing Western establishments toward new thinking about Africa, racial and cultural identity, and their relationship to physical space. At the heart of her curation of the Biennale, Lokko said in an interview from Venice last month, was a question: What does it mean to be a meaningful agent of change in the 21st century?
Much of Lokko's academic research and curation focuses on architects in Africa and across the diaspora. At this year's Venice Architecture Biennale, she featured Hood Design Studio of Oakland, Calif., which drew on basket-weaving for its installation (top), and the Pritzker-winner Diébédo Francis Kéré's Lycée Schorge Secondary School in Koudougou, Burkina Faso (bottom).
"There is a narrative of lack that continues to dominate perspectives of the global South. Imagination and creativity are perceived as a prerogative of the global North," Lokko said. "But Africa's unique context, which is both hugely challenging but also richly creative, makes it a powerful place from which to examine the issues that will dominate the next century, from climate and societal change to new forms of governance."
In 2021, only one-third of the Architecture Biennale's participants were from outside Europe and the U.S. In 2023, more than half of the 89 exhibitors are from Africa or its diaspora. The show features established names such as Sumayya Vally of South Africa and the Pritzker Prize winner Diébédo Francis Kéré of Burkina Faso, as well as emerging talents such as Mariam Issoufou Kamara of the Niger-based atelier masomi; the Rwandan architect Christian Benimana, of MASS Design Group; and the spoken word poet Rhael "LionHeart" Cape, whose video installation opens the exhibition with a giant screen that flashes through calls for action on current housing, displacement and migration crises.
A common thread among many of the Biennale participants, Lokko said, is the ability to "shape-shift" and adapt to different cultures and contexts while stretching conventional definitions of architecture. One exhibit she highlighted was from Looty, an anonymous collective that presents 3-D scans of artworks taken from colonized nations by major Western museums. The works have been made into NFTs, or "digital restitutions," which then make it easier for anyone to study or even acquire.
The act of shape-shifting also applies to Lokko.
"Scotland was shiver. Ghana was sweat," she told The Times earlier this year of her childhood split between Dundee and Accra. Raised by a Ghanaian surgeon father before being sent to an English boarding school in her teens, she originally thought she would be a novelist (she has since written 13 books). The writers Nadine Gordimer and Toni Morrison, she said, first made her aware that "the world in front of me wasn't the only world available."
Life as an architect, however, gave her a chance to ground herself after a childhood spent shuttling between cultures; now, she calls teaching "her happy place." She's excited by the prospect of a more progressive future for architecture, where change doesn't come solely from the West or the North.
"Creativity born out of necessity has incredible value," she said. "Now the world needs to recognize it."
"There is a narrative of lack that continues to dominate perspectives of the global South. Imagination and creativity are perceived as a prerogative of the global North." -- Lesley Lokko
Toheeb Jimoh
His Nigerian heritage has shaped two of the British actor's most prominent roles: Sam Obisanya on "Ted Lasso" and Tunde on "The Power."
By Precious Adesina
Photo by Olivia Lifungula for The New York Times
Like Sam Obisanya, the Nigerian soccer player he played on "Ted Lasso," Toheeb Jimoh has spent his life straddling two worlds. Sam's journey on the Apple TV+ show revolved around him acclimating to a new culture after relocating from his home country to play for the fictional soccer team AFC Richmond in London.
Jimoh's odyssey has been a bit more complicated. Born in London, the actor spent his early years in Nigeria, where he was often teased about his origins: Classmates would call him "London boy," even though young Jimoh had no memory of the city. Then, at 7, he moved back to Britain and, suddenly, "my Nigerianess was the thing that set me apart from other people," he said in a recent Zoom interview. "It felt like if I wanted to fit in, that was the thing that I needed to get rid of." Consequently, "my accent changed, and I kind of had to reject my culture a little bit just to acclimatize."
Jimoh, who grew up in both Nigeria and England, feels connected to both countries. Here, Nigerians in London celebrate the African nation's newly gained independence from British rule on Oct. 1, 1960.
Jimoh, 26, has since embraced his heritage, his understanding of his West African culture informing roles like Sam, as well as Tunde, a Nigerian video journalist Jimoh played earlier this year on Amazon Prime's "The Power."
His breakout role as Sam -- rewritten from Ghanaian to Nigerian after Jimoh was cast -- "gave me a different sense of power on set." Jimoh consulted on questions such as what the Nigerian restaurant Sam opens in season three should look like. In 2022, he was nominated for an Emmy for the role. "For me, the important thing was just having a bit of authorship in how Nigerian stories are told," he said.
Today, Jimoh said, people are "demanding more from storytellers," including acknowledging that Africans and members of the diaspora are not a monolith. He is in increasingly good company: Ncuti Gatwa ("Sex Education"), Michaela Coel ("I May Destroy You") and Samuel Adewunmi ("The Last Tree"), among others, have played wildly different characters in recent years, all grounded in the diaspora.
Jimoh wants African actors in the diaspora to have access to a wider array of roles. This summer, he played the male lead opposite Isis Hainsworth in Rebecca Frecknall's staging of "Romeo and Juliet," which garnered critical acclaim.
Jimoh, though, is quick to add that he hopes Nigerians and other members of the diaspora will be afforded the same range of roles as actors from Western countries. "As much as I want to play Nigerians and be a voice and spokesperson for Nigerian people, that's not all of who I am," he said. "I'm also a Black British kid." Jimoh recently completed a glowingly reviewed run as Romeo in "Romeo and Juliet" at the Almeida Theatre in London, a "challenging and rewarding experience" that allowed him to put his own stamp on a classically British role.
"I hope I'll get to have the same types of careers as all the other people I've grown up watching," he said.
"As much as I want to play Nigerians and be a voice and spokesperson for Nigerian people, that's not all of who I am. I'm also a Black British kid." -- Toheeb Jimoh
Nkuli Mlangeni-Berg
Her colorful, geometric textiles have roots in the native craftsmanship of Peru and her own Indigenous background in South Africa.
By Lynsey Chutel
Photo by Patricia Reyes for The New York Times
Seven years ago, Nkuli Mlangeni-Berg, a South African textile designer, traveled to South America to research fabrics and discovered echoes of her homeland. In Lima, Peru, she met Mario Quispe, an Indigenous artisan who shared the weaving techniques of his Quechua culture. The weft and warp of his handloom created geometric patterns that mirrored the colorful ones adorning the homes of the Ndebele people, from whom Mlangeni-Berg is descended.
Mlangeni-Berg returned to South Africa, determined to continue their cross-cultural conversation. She trekked across southern Africa, until her search for handwoven textiles took her to a town on the edge of South Africa's Karoo desert, where, like Quispe, a group of women held onto the techniques of their ancestors.
Mlangeni-Berg works with artisans, including weavers in the Karoo Desert (bottom), to create handwoven textiles like the award-winning Sankara rug (top).
She brought their work to the Ninevites, a collaborative studio she founded in 2012 that produces rugs, throws, pillows, art and ceramics. Artisans in Peru and South Africa weave together mohair, alpaca and sheep wool to realize the studio's designs. One of their earliest works, the Sankara Rug, was voted the most beautiful object in South Africa in 2017 by Design Indaba, a global gathering hosted in South Africa each year.
Mlangeni-Berg, 41, was raised in Kagiso, outside Johannesburg. She often traveled north to Hammanskraal, where her great-grandmother worked as a traditional healer in her Ndebele community. "Textiles played a very big part in every single ceremony that we had at home," Mlangeni-Berg said. "When you're born, you're given a blanket," she said. "When you turn a certain age, when you come of age and you're given a blanket, and when you die your casket is wrapped with a blanket."
Her designs draw on the geometry of her Ndebele culture, the beading and cloth of her Swati heritage and the innovation of her parents' generation, who adorned their apartheid-era houses with homemade grass mats, and tailored their hand-me-down clothes. "Design back at home, it's so much about making the best of what you have," said Mlangeni-Berg.
After marrying, Mlangeni-Berg moved to Sweden in 2020, where she continues her textile research in a masters program. She's especially drawn to how African American art movements of the 20th century sought connection to Africa. "I am very curious about what connects us as a people beyond the struggle," she said.
Though she has been embraced internationally -- Monocle Design Awards recognized her as 2021's "Best New Talent" -- Mlangeni-Berg's focus remains on Africa for new collaborations. The Ninevites created two rugs for the Swedish décor brand Svenskt Tenn with the Algerian artist Walid Bouchouchi. And Mlangeni-Berg's patterns are featured on the cover of the novel "Glory," by the Zimbabwean author NoViolet Bulawayo.
Reflecting on her transcontinental journey and practice, she said, "I think we need to heal ourselves and decolonialize all these ideas that we grew up thinking and feeling and all these things that we had to subscribe to as Black people and as Black artists."
"I am very curious about what connects us as a people beyond the struggle." -- Nkuli Mlangeni-Berg

Subject: Rap music; Motion pictures; Afrofuturism; Popular music; Black people; Fashion designers; Musical performances; Social networks; Design; Visual artists; Diaspora

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Kenya; Nigeria; United Kingdom--UK; Africa; Los Angeles California; Ghana; Europe

People: Bearden, Romare (1911-1988); Lee, Spike

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/16/world/meet-the-african-artists-driving-a-cultural-renaissance.html

Title: Creatively Inspired By Africa:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.28

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 7, 2024

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2910905135

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creatively-inspired-africa/docview/2910905135/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

10 Great Ways To Pop the Question: [Society Desk]

Author: Sadiba Hasan

Publication info: Sadiba Hasan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/10-great-ways-pop-question/docview/2910905105/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Here are some of the sweetest, funniest and most heartwarming ways that couples who wed in 2023 asked, "Will you marry me?"
In 2023, the weddings industry made a comeback.
Love stories from around the world continued to fill the Weddings pages of The New York Times. And while some of the weddings commemorating these love stories were as grand as ever, micro-weddings and elopements were just as popular.
Before the weddings came the proposals. Couples try to come up with thoughtful ways to ask, "Will you marry me?," but not everything always goes as planned. An education executive had to think fast when a swarm of bees intercepted his plan. A sales director needed to spell things out for his partner when she couldn't catch a hint. And a limousine company owner postponed his proposal plans after he lost badly in a game of monopoly and was no longer in the mood for it.
Spontaneous proposals are treasured. One couple proposed to each other with calamari rings during dinner, and another couple got engaged with rainbow fabric rings from a souvenir shop that cost $ 15.99, plus tax.
Here are 10 unforgettable proposals from couples featured in The New York Times Weddings section last year.
He Acted Out a Charades Clue Three Years Later
In 2019, during a round of charades after Thanksgiving dinner at Adam Purdy's family's home in Montclair, N.J., Katie Schad jokingly scribbled a clue on a piece of paper for Mr. Purdy.
It said: "Marry Me Katie," which he acted out, and then hid in his pocket. He later put the slip of paper in a plastic bag so the ink would not fade.
In February 2022, Mr. Purdy once again acted out the charades clue Ms. Schad had written. He decorated their coffee table with candles and rose petals and placed the old charades clue in a frame and presented it to her.
Mr. Purdy read a poem he wrote. He then got down on one knee, and asked: "Will you marry me?"
They opened a bottle of champagne and celebrated alongside their cat, Max, who died in July 2022.
The couple married on May 20, 2023.
Rainbow Rings that Cost $ 15.99 Plus Tax
In August 2021, Molly Gaebe and Leila Bozorg were staying in a rental in Fire Island, N.Y., when Hurricane Henri swept through the town. The couple evacuated the house and sheltered in a hotel through the worst of the storm.
Ms. Gaebe wanted to turn around the experience, and so she started hatching her plan to propose. She bought a rainbow fabric ring the next day and asked Boudoir LeFleur, one of the couple's favorite drag queens, to be a part of the proposal.
Halfway through Boudoir LeFleur's show at Cherry's on the Bay, a restaurant and venue on Fire Island, she called out in mock innocence: "Is Molly in the room?"
"Leila joon," Ms. Gaebe said onstage, using a Farsi endearment. When Ms. Bozorg joined her, Ms. Gaebe got down on one knee with the rainbow fabric ring she'd picked up that day from a local souvenir shop.
"I wanted something gaudy, tacky, fun, and gay -- something that symbolized the spontaneity, joy, and adventure of love and the romance of being in the moment, exactly where you are and as you are," Ms. Gaebe said. "Because love doesn't need a script or a plan or a diamond ring. It just needs two hearts, one crazy idea, and $ 15.99 plus tax."
They married on June 24, 2023.
A Special Scrapbook Completed Six Years Later
On their first anniversary as a couple, in 2015, Karina Rodriguez gifted Andrew Levin a scrapbook that chronicled their year together; half of it was left empty, and it ended with a page that said "to be continued."
Then, for their third anniversary, Ms. Rodriguez filled the second half with photos of all the places they'd traveled to together since, and ended it with a question: "Where will we go next?" They kept the scrapbook on their coffee table since then.
For the proposal, in December 2021, Mr. Levin taped a ring at the end of the book, answering Ms. Rodriguez's question from years before: "Anywhere is fine with me, as long as I'm with you."
He presented it to her a few days after Christmas during their yearly holiday gift exchange. She recalled paging through it and reliving their memories: "We were walking through our relationship from Year 1, and I had no idea what was going on." That is, until she reached the page with the ring and immediately dropped the book and started crying.
They wed on June 10, 2023.
A 'Flawless' Proposal That Took a Few Tries -- and the Fire Department
In 2021, during the holidays, Michael Greene bought a diamond ring and decided he would pop the big question to Tomika Anderson on New Year's Eve. But after Ms. Anderson "whooped his butt in Monopoly so bad," she said, he was no longer in the mood to propose. He decided to wait until the next day.
But things went awry the following day, as well. He proposed to her on Jan. 1, 2022, while she was coming out of the shower with her hair "half wet, half dry," she said. He pulled the ring out of a velvet bag rather than a box because there was an inventory shortage at the time.
"I was looking at him like, 'Are you serious? This is how you want to propose?,"' she said.
"She was about to beat me up," he added.
Additionally, when she tried to take the ring off the following day, it would not budge -- "not with butter, not with soap, nothing," she said. They ultimately went to the fire department, and a firefighter clipped it off.
After a disappointing proposal, and a broken ring (they were able to salvage the diamond), she asked him for a "do-over," she said, which took place on Valentine's Day.
The do-over was "flawless," Ms. Anderson said.
Together, they chose a new band for the diamond, and Mr. Greene arranged for a makeup artist, a limousine, a red carpet and a private suite decorated with roses at La Vie in Washington, Ms. Anderson's favorite restaurant.
On March 4, the couple were wed in Turks and Caicos.
A Swarm of Bees Harshed Their Buzz
Peter Walters secretly set up a picnic overlooking the Great South Bay for his proposal to Ray Quintero on Fire Island in June 2020. He hid two Cartier rings and a bottle of champagne under leaves and branches, and wrote "Marry Me" in the sand.
But, a few hours later while the two were en route, Mr. Quintero spotted a swarm of bees. Mr. Quintero had been deathly afraid of bees since he was a child, and he bolted.
Mr. Walters walked another 30 minutes by himself to gather everything up, and later resorted to Plan B.
That evening, Mr. Walters got down on one knee on their balcony as the moon rose over the ocean. After Mr. Walters proposed, Mr. Quintero proposed with the other Cartier ring.
"I have since embraced bees," said Mr. Quintero, who from that day overcame his phobia.
On April 21, 2023, the two were married at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau.
He Wrote Her a Message in the Sand, But She Ignored It
On a hike during a vacation on the Hawaiian island of Kauai in September 2016, Brooke Rinehart stopped for a snack at a beach when she noticed that someone had written "Will You Marry Me?" in the sand.
"I was like, this is awkward," she said. "We're going to witness it and I'll have to say, 'It's OK, I don't mind not being engaged."' She was on the trip with Tom Sinnott, her boyfriend of four and a half years.
On the beach, Mr. Sinnot tried to draw Ms. Rinehart's attention to the message he had covertly written in the sand. But she, believing it was for someone else, adamantly ignored it. "I was stepping over and pretending not to see it," she said.
Finally, Mr. Sinnott asked her to look. "I said, 'I guess someone is asking someone to marry them,"' Ms. Rinehart said. When she turned around, Mr. Sinnott was on his knees with a pink sapphire ring in his hand.
Ms. Rinehart worried that he was asking out of panicked propriety. They had learned only a week earlier that she was pregnant. "I started an elaborate questioning, 'Are you just doing this because I'm pregnant? When did you buy the ring?'," she asked.
Mr. Sinnott patiently answered her questions -- no and six months ago -- but people were gathering. "He said, 'You know everyone's looking at us, and you haven't said yes'," Ms. Rinehart said.
"I was like, 'Of course the answer is yes, I thought that was a given,"' she said.
The couple wed on June 16, 2023.
One White Rose at a Time
In November 2021, Travis Cronin invited Kevin Barlowski to the Thomas Hooker Brewery at Colt in Hartford, Conn., where they had their first date, under the guise of a Friendsgiving.
En route, Mr. Barlowski, oblivious to the proposal, was greeted by friends, who gifted him with one white rose at a time (in the apartment building elevator, in the brewery parking lot), and by the couples' parents upon entering the brewery.
55 friends and family members congregated inside, banging on the windows and cheering. Realizing a proposal was underway, Mr. Barlowski clutched his chest and began sobbing. He then saw Mr. Cronin, the last person to hand him a white rose, and said yes.
The two wed on Sept. 15.
A String Quartet Played Britney Spears and Cardi B
Mr. Barlowski's proposal to Mr. Cronin, in August 2023, was no less heartfelt. He proposed in the backyard of their home in West Hartford, Conn, three weeks before their wedding was set to take place. ("I owed that man a ring, and I was right down to the wire with it," Mr. Barlowski said.)
Mr. Cronin was driving to their home, and Mr. Barlowski had left a QR code on the steering wheel with a playlist of their favorite songs. "I cried happy tears much of the way back," Mr. Cronin said.
Once he arrived home, Mr. Cronin walked up a moss-encased staircase book ended by fairy lights to find a luxurious picnic where Mr. Barlowski played "Everytime" by Britney Spears on a rented piano alongside a string quartet. The quartet performed for two hours, including the songs "What Dreams Are Made Of" by Hilary Duff and "WAP" by Cardi B and Megan Thee Stallion.
They married on Sept. 15.
After His Onstage Proposal, The Crowd Erupted
Zeke Smith and Nico Santos met at the GLAAD Media Awards in April 2018. Four years later, the couple were presenting onstage at the 2022 GLAAD Media Awards, reading off a teleprompter.
Once the script ended, and Mr. Smith kept talking, Mr. Santos's face broke. "I'm like, 'Why is he still talking?,"' he recalled.
"Your love has taught me how to love," Mr. Smith said onstage. "You are my other half, and I want to spend the rest of my life with you." He then got down on one knee.
The audience at the awards ceremony, which honors media for their accurate and inclusive representation of the L.G.B.T.Q. community, erupted into applause.
Both Mr. Smith and Mr. Santos are prominent members of the L.G.B.T.Q. community in Los Angeles. Mr. Smith said that the moment was even more special because it happened during a night that celebrates inclusion. "It felt really electric."
The couple married on Nov. 4.
In Honor of Her Grandmother
Allie Mitchell and Kyle Carlock both graduated from Louisiana State University, and they are big L.S.U. Tigers football fans. In July 2022, Mr. Carlock arranged a tour of the Tiger Stadium for the two of them, along with Ms. Mitchell's sister and her brother-in-law.
When they got to the top of the stadium, Mr. Carlock managed to snag some alone time, and he proposed.
Ms. Mitchell's maternal grandparents, Francisco Mendez and Reina Mendez, originally from Cuba, came to the United States in 1962. They had lost all their possessions, including Ms. Mendez's wedding ring. Mr. Mendez replaced it with a simple band and later with a diamond ring. Mr. Carlock proposed with that ring.
"Wearing it makes me feel like I always have them with me no matter what," Ms. Mitchell said. "Kyle unfortunately was never able to meet them. It makes me feel like they are still connected."
They were married on April 15.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG SCHLOSSBERG; ZMIMI PHOTOGRAPHY; AMIT BAGGA; RICH POLK/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Weddings; Fires; Couples; Books; Knee; Proposals; Anniversaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Proposals

Location: New York; United States--US; Fire Island

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/04/style/2023-marriage-proposals.html

Title: 10 Great Ways To Pop the Question:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 7, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2910905105

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/10-great-ways-pop-question/docview/2910905105/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Creatively Inspired By Africa: [Projects and Initiatives]

Author: Abdi Latif Dahir; Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie; Ibekwe, Desiree; Paton, Elizabeth; Chutel, Lynsey; Adesina, Precious

Publication info: Abdi Latif Dahir; Brinkhurst-Cuff, Charlie; Ibekwe, Desiree; Paton, Elizabeth; Chutel, Lynsey; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creatively-inspired-africa/docview/2910905076/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This is part of a series on how Africa's youth boom is changing the continent, and beyond .
For centuries, the connection between Black people on and off the continent of Africa has been complex, bound up in a painful history of slavery, separation and, at times, suspicion. Yet the relationship has also thrived.
In 1964, Malcolm X visited Ghana. In a speech at a university there, he said: "I don't feel that I am a visitor in Ghana or in any part of Africa. I feel that I am at home. I've been away for 400 years, but not of my own volition, not of my own will."
For young people today, the relationship is more direct. There's a reciprocity of inspiration, fueled by a multitude of creative efforts and propelled by social media platforms like TikTok.
Examples are plenty. Resonant movies like "Black Panther" and majestic portraits by artists like Kehinde Wiley and Omar Victor Diop. Nigeria's hilarious pulp movies, which are binged in homes across Europe and the Caribbean. And the Afro-Pop songs of Kenya's Sauti Sol and the Afrobeats sounds of Tems, Burna Boy and Mr Eazi. In 2022 alone, Afrobeats artists were streamed more than 13 billion times on Spotify.
For this project, we spoke to 12 leading creators from Africa, Asia, Europe and the United States. They include a two-time Oscar winner and first-time filmmakers, a Michelin star chef and a best-selling author, a fashion designer and an architect, a visual artist and a pop star. For them, Africa is the motherland, the source from which they draw. They are part of the global web of creatives who are making the world more African.
"I don't separate the Black diaspora from the Blacks on the continent," the writer Nnedi Okorafor told us. "I speak about Blacks, globally, collectively. For many years, that was my personal definition of the Black diaspora: every Black person on the planet."
-- Abdi Latif Dahir and Veronica Chambers
Ruth E. Carter
The costume designer and two-time Oscar winner has propelled Afrofuturism into the fashion mainstream with her work on "Black Panther" and "Wakanda Forever."
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Gioncarlo Valentine for The New York Times
"A costume designer is, first and foremost, a storyteller," said Ruth E. Carter.
Carter, 63, was the first Black person to win an Oscar in the costuming category, for the 2018 film "Black Panther." When she took home her second Academy Award in March, for "Black Panther: Wakanda Forever," she also became the first person to win for both an original movie and its sequel.
Wakanda, the world of the "Black Panther" films, is a fictional African kingdom, reimagined without the footprint of colonization. Carter borrowed from Indigenous cultures across the continent for her designs: Buyers during pre-production sourced tribal artifacts including Dogon masks from Mali, Himba crowns from Namibia, Maasai beading from Kenya and stacked neck rings worn by Ndebele women from South Africa. Carter also drew inspiration from contemporary African fashion designers such as Laduma Ngxokolo, the founder of the South African knitwear brand MaXhosa Africa, and the Ghanaian British tailor Ozwald Boateng, and scouted streetwear at the Afropunk music festival in Johannesburg to see new trends firsthand.
"There is not and never was a singular African aesthetic," Carter said.
For the designer, trailblazing has become something of a habit: Through her work over the last three decades on films including "Malcolm X," "Amistad" and Marvel blockbusters, she has definitively shaped how stories of Black history and culture are represented on the big screen.
Among the sources of inspiration Carter cites are the artist Romare Bearden, whose collages (top) influenced her work on Spike Lee's films, and the Afropunk Festival (bottom), which contributed to her vision for the "Black Panther" films.
"When you're representing cultures and representing yourself -- it's never a burden, it's a joy -- but the pressure to get it right is like a calling," Carter said recently from her home in Los Angeles.
Carter, who grew up in Massachusetts, the youngest of eight children raised by a single mother, took her first sewing class at her local Boys and Girls Club. After graduating from Hampton University, a historically Black college in Virginia, she worked in theater and opera before moving in 1986 to Los Angeles, where she met the director Spike Lee; her first movie, one of many collaborations with Lee, was 1988's "School Daze."
Even when she's not outfitting Afrofuturist realms, Carter is always looking to Africa and its diaspora for inspiration. For period pieces, she turns to "The Image of the Black in Western Art," a 10-book series that features thousands of images of people of African descent from across four millenniums. For many of her collaborations with Lee, such as "Do the Right Thing" and "Jungle Fever," she looked to the artist Romare Bearden, known for his collage scenes of city life and the American South. And for "Mo' Better Blues," Carter focused on the personal style of jazz musicians such as Dexter Gordon, Thelonious Monk and Miles Davis.
"It is always important to me to be inspired by something or someone real," she said. "I search for tiny human details that I can uncover and then apply to my characters."
Carter's designs don't just bring the Black diaspora together: Her work, particularly on "Black Panther," has helped propel Afrofuturism into the fashion mainstream, inspiring Serena Williams's French Open catsuit, fan merch and presentations at New York Fashion Week.
"We honor the culture, but we also move it forward," said Carter.
"When you're representing cultures and representing yourself -- it's never a burden, it's a joy -- but the pressure to get it right is like a calling." -- Ruth E. Carter
Mr Eazi
With over a billion streams, the Nigerian native's Afrobeats music is helping reshape global narratives about Africa.
By Desiree Ibekwe
Photo by Rasaan Wyzard for The New York Times
"Where is home?" is not a simple question for the Nigerian musician Mr Eazi.
"The plane," he said, joking, on a video call from New York. Then, more seriously: "I think home is anywhere I have family, so that switches between Accra, London, Cotonou, Lagos and Dubai."
Mr Eazi, 32, was born Oluwatosin Oluwole Ajibade in Port Harcourt, Nigeria. But his life and career have been marked by a connection to the world outside his native country. The first time Mr Eazi entered a recording studio, he was studying mechanical engineering at a university in Kumasi, Ghana. (It was there that he got the name Mr Eazi: He'd reportedly break up fights, saying, "Take it easy, take it easy.") He performed in Brooklyn in 2016 -- invited by the rapper Lauryn Hill -- before, he said, he had ever done a show in Nigeria. And he was featured on the 2019 "Lion King" soundtrack and has appeared on songs with the Colombian singer J Balvin, the Puerto Rican rapper Bad Bunny and the Jamaican artist Popcaan, as well as Nicki Minaj and Diplo.
Mr Eazi gained popularity in the mid-to-late 2010s with catchy Afrobeats songs such as "Skin Tight" and "Leg Over." He described the sound of those early songs as Banku, a melting pot of Ghanaian highlife music with Nigerian chord progressions.
His initial success came at a time when Nigerian artists like WizKid were breaking through to Western audiences due, in part, to social media, cosigns by international artists -- and the diaspora.
His sound was distinctive among his peers. "Many of the most popular Afrobeats artists -- such as Wizkid, Davido, and Patoranking -- wield an upbeat vocal tempo," Lawrence Burney wrote for Vice in 2016. Mr Eazi, in contrast, used his "deep hum of a voice to give ballad-like qualities to dance-forward production."
Africans in Britain were instrumental to Mr Eazi's early success. "For me, outside of Ghana, the next place that embraced my music was the U.K.," he said. Young Black students were the first to gravitate toward his music, inviting him to perform for their African Caribbean Societies -- campus associations that play a large role in the lives of many Black people studying at British universities. "These were the ones defining what it is to be cool and embracing their Africanness," he said. "That was the foundation of the African diaspora pushing the music."
For his newest album, "The Evil Genius," Mr Eazi commissioned original pieces by African artists that correspond with each track. Sesse Elangwe, a Cameroonian artist based in Texas, created "The Way I See It" as an interpretation of the song "Chop Time, No Friend."
While Mr Eazi has been releasing singles, collaborations and mixtapes -- with well over a billion streams online -- it wasn't until October of this year that he released what he called his debut studio album, "The Evil Genius." Recorded in Africa, Britain and the United States, the songs trace a narrative of loneliness, romance and community. Mr Eazi commissioned pieces to visually represent each track from 13 African artists, which were exhibited at shows in Great Britain and Ghana.
"People are discovering Africa first, not through the lens of CNN or The New York Times," he said, but rather "through the lens of the music."
"Home is anywhere I have family, so that switches between Accra, London, Cotonou, Lagos and Dubai." -- Mr Eazi
Zhong Feifei
The Congolese Chinese singer and model has 1.6 million followers on the Chinese social media platform Weibo.
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Johnny Chiang
In a country where blending in is often of value, Zhong Feifei stands out.
"Often the world tells biracial kids that our existence is a 50-50 thing -- that you can only ever be less than a whole or not enough," the singer and model said from her home in Shanghai last month. "But I feel 100 percent Congolese and 100 percent Chinese. For anyone of mixed heritage, there is great power when you can harness that mindset about your identity."
Several million Chinese workers have migrated to the African continent in recent decades, while an estimated 500,000 African migrants live in China. Zhong, 27, whose mother is Chinese and whose late father was Congolese, is part of a new generation to emerge from this global economic trend, with a childhood split between two worlds. After her birth in Guangzhou, she spent her earliest years in the Republic of Congo, before civil war prompted her parents to send her to Shanghai at 5 to be brought up by her "very traditional Chinese grandmother," Zhong said.
At 14, she left China to join her mother in Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where she discovered a love of Afrobeats musicians such as Burna Boy and Davido as well as groups like TPOK Jazz. She moved to the United States at 18, in 2014, to attend Boston University; at the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, she returned to China, where she ended up finishing a masters from Johns Hopkins University in global security studies online -- while also appearing on a hit reality show called "Produce Camp 2020." Modeled after a cult Korean music competition program, the show pits aspiring Chinese performers against each other, with the eventual winners forming a new girl group.
Zhong grew up admiring the model and businesswoman Kimora Lee Simmons, whose multiracial background mirrors Zhong's.
Zhong didn't make the final cut. But as the first mixed race Black contestant, her appearance provoked a firestorm on the Chinese social media platform Weibo; she has subsequently developed a considerable fanbase, with 1.6 million Weibo followers, despite endemic racism in China.
"I used to want to work at an N.G.O. but for now I think I can have more influence in the pop culture sphere when it comes to 'Blasian' representation, both in China and beyond -- even Hollywood," she said, citing the American former model and businesswoman Kimora Lee Simmons and the British supermodel Naomi Campbell as models for how to grow her career in the public sphere while celebrating her heritage. Zhong released a solo hip-hop track, "B.U.R.N.," in 2020. The following year, she was the first African Chinese model to be featured in a Vogue China cover story, and in 2022 she was the model and producer for the first campaign shot in the Congo in Vogue's 130-year history, for a spread showcasing Congolese designs. Lately, she has been working with Western brands such as Cartier and Fenty Beauty, as well as Chinese labels like Private Policy. Her motivation is to encourage people to chase dreams in spaces where they are not typically seen.
"In China, it feels like there is no one with any public profile who looks like me," Zhong said. "But more and more people who look like me do exist, here and all over the world. They need to feel represented."
"Often the world tells biracial kids that our existence is a 50-50 thing -- that you can only ever be less than a whole or not enough. But I feel 100 percent Congolese and 100 percent Chinese." -- Zhong Feifei
Nnedi Okorafor
Twenty years ago, American publishers thought the work of the sci-fi novelist was unrelatable. This year, she signed a seven-figure deal for her next book.
By Charlie Brinkhurst-Cuff
Photo by Chanell Stone for The New York Times
When Nnedi Okorafor signed a seven-figure deal earlier this year for her newest novel, "The Africanfuturist," it was the achievement of a dream three decades in the making.
The book, scheduled to publish in 2025, is the kind of story Okorafor, 49, has always wanted to write, and one she said she never would have been able to sell when she was starting out in the early 2000s. American publishers then didn't know what to make of her stories, many of which blend African folklore with science fiction, fantasy and magical realism, and repeatedly rejected them as confusing or unrelatable. Once her books found a home, however, they proved irresistible to readers. Her nearly two dozen works of fiction have earned Okorafor a slew of honors -- four Hugos, a Nebula, a World Fantasy Award. And a new generation of American storytellers who explicitly use their African heritage, history and mythology to inspire their work have followed in her wake, including Tomi Adeyemi, Ayana Gray, Jordan Ifueko and Namina Forna.
Okorafor, who lives in Phoenix, has long viewed herself as a bridge between two cultures. She was born in Cincinnati to Nigerian parents whose mindset was: "We're American. But we'll always be Nigerian; we'll always want that connection," Okorafor said. "My mom kept her accent on purpose."
In her writing, Okorafor draws on West African myths and figures, like the water spirit Mami Wata. The Kenyan artist Wangechi Mutu evoked the siren figure in her 2017 bronze sculpture "Water Woman."
That connection is the heartbeat of Okorafor's work, from her sci-fi fantasy novel "Who Fears Death," set in a post-apocalyptic fictional African nation, to a three-issue arc of Marvel Comics's Black Panther series. She does extensive research for each of her books and anchors her fantastical stories in traditional West African myths: For example, her "Akata" trilogy, about a Nigerian American albino girl with magical powers, features the mermaid-like Mami Wata, the spider deity Udide, the trickster spirit Ekwensu and Nsibidi symbols, all of which are drawn from Nigerian folklore.
Diasporic folktales also run through Okorafor's work. She started writing at 19, when she was temporarily paralyzed after a surgery to treat scoliosis went wrong. Her first short story, written from her hospital bed, was about a flying woman -- a character that allowed her to transcend her own physical limitations. Years later, Okorafor came across the folktale of the Flying Africans, enslaved people in the United States who could fly and used their powers to return to Africa; the myth helped inspire her first published novel, "Zahrah the Windseeker," about a 13-year-old girl who learns to fly, which won the Wole Soyinka Prize for Literature in Africa in 2008.
As more publishers embrace the artistic and commercial value of African stories, what was once a lonely perch for Okorafor and writers like her has become a beautifully crowded one. Okorafor is excited at the prospect of more literature that speaks to diasporic themes, and of more storytelling directly from Africa. "I'm separate from the continent, but I'm very much connected," she said. "Some of my connections may be a little spotty, weird and indirect. But that back and forth is strong."
"We're American. But we'll always be Nigerian; we'll always want that connection." -- Nnedi Okorafor
Omar Victor Diop
History, inheritance and possibility are re-imagined through the lens of the Senegalese photographer, one of the most successful young artists on the continent.
By Abdi Latif Dahir
Photo by Cédrine Scheidig for The New York Times
In one of his famed self-portraits, Omar Victor Diop, a Senegalese photographer and artist, wears a three-piece suit and an extravagant paisley bow tie, preparing to blow a yellow, plastic whistle. The elaborately staged photograph evokes the memory of Frederick Douglass, the one-time fugitive slave who in the 19th century rose to become a leading abolitionist, activist, writer and orator, as well as the first African American to be nominated for vice president of the United States.
Diop is no stranger to portraying the aches and hopes of Black people across the world. Throughout his oeuvre, which incorporates historical references and costumes, he has highlighted the vital role of Black and African figures in world history, celebrated the dignity of African migrants and refugees, weaved together the history of Black protests from the Selma march to the Soweto uprising in South Africa, and examined the impact of climate change on Africa and the Global South.
Through his bold images, Diop examines the interplay between African and diasporic experiences by knitting together the past and present.
"I am fascinated and surprised about how Africa is still present in everything an African American would do; they don't even realize it," said Diop, who lives and works in Dakar and Paris. "Sometimes you look at an African American in reality TV and you happen to be looking at your sisters and your aunts because of the expressions -- it's translated and said in English, but she could be in Dakar, speaking Wolof."
In a 2015 self-portrait (top), from Diop's series "Project Diaspora," the artist emulates Frederick Douglass, who was the most photographed man of his era. Douglass sat for over 160 portraits, including a daguerreotype circa 1855 (bottom), to challenge negative representations of African Americans.
Diop is interested in creating connection and community through his work, while also using history to bridge the experiences of people of African descent. By highlighting figures like Douglass or events such as the Women's War in Nigeria, he said, he hoped to not only kickstart a conversation within the upcoming generation but also deepen the relationship between Africa and the diaspora.
"There are so many inspiring stories that can have significant resonance on the continent and vice versa," he said. "I think that there is an absolute need for more interaction. We don't even know each other enough."
Diop was born in Dakar in 1980 to a father who is a chartered accountant and a mother who is a lawyer. He became a full-time artist over a decade ago, after years of studying finance in Senegal and France and working in corporate communications in Dakar, Nairobi and Lagos.
The self-taught Diop, whose tableaux have been exhibited all over the world, builds on the rich tradition of the West African studio portraiture practiced by artists like Mama Casset (Senegal), Malick Sidibé (Mali) and Samuel Fosso (Nigeria). But his work is not bound by the traditions of studio photography: As he embarks on a project, Diop obsessively reads about his subjects, talks to historians and even tries to replicate his subjects' sartorial choices, such as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s suits or Trayvon Martin's hooded sweatshirt.
"The imagery of fashion, the language of fashion is a tool for me to enter the minds" of viewers, he said. "It's creating an image that is very attractive as a way to camouflage the heavy subjects that I am bringing. And it is also a way for me to celebrate the memory that I am bringing."
In early October, Diop announced a new project called "Being There," which explores the place of race and identity in America in the years following World War II.
Diop is also planning on producing educational materials, including books and games, that will engage young African and diasporic audiences on issues like art and climate change. He hopes to show how their stories of struggle and success are interconnected across centuries and continents.
"I am a firm believer that there is an African spirit of resilience, of excellence despite everything that has been thrown at us," he said.
"I am fascinated and surprised about how Africa is still present in everything an African American would do; they don't even realize it." -- Omar Victor Diop
Adamma and Adanne Ebo
As filmmakers, the Ebo twin sisters draw inspiration from their American Southern and Nigerian heritage, with a little Japanese anime and "hood classic" cinema thrown in.
By Lynsey Chutel
Photo by Ricardo Nagaoka for The New York Times
For their first feature film, Adamma and Adanne Ebo took on the Black church -- specifically, the Southern Black church. With its vibrant cultural and spiritual expressions, the twin sisters found surprising ties to Nigeria, their father's homeland.
"They say write what you know," Adamma, who wrote and directed "Honk For Jesus. Save Your Soul," said in a recent interview; her twin, Adanne, produced the film.
The movie stars Sterling K. Brown as the fallen pastor of an Atlanta megachurch, and Regina Hall as his pious yet powerful wife. Both actors also signed on as producers, along with the Oscar-award winning actor Daniel Kaluuya; Jordan Peele, the Oscar-winning writer and director of "Get Out," was an executive producer. Among laugh-out-loud moments, the satirical mockumentary delivers an empathetic reflection on church community, and the invisible labor of women that sustains it.
The Ebo sisters' debut feature film, "Honk For Jesus. Save Your Soul," is a satirical look at megachurches, which are influential across the American South and in Nigeria.
"There's a lot of dissonance between the two cultures, but then there's also a lot of overlap," said Adamma, of Nigeria and the American South.
"Church is one of them," Adanne added.
The children of an American mother and Nigerian father, the sisters describe their upbringing in Atlanta as culturally both Southern Black American -- they both played alto sax in a marching band -- and Nigerian.
Adamma and Adanne fell in love with cinema through movies like the anime classic "Kiki's Delivery Service," as well as films they call "hood classics," including "Baby Boy," directed by John Singleton, and the crime saga "Juice" ("criminally underrated"). Like their mother, they attended a historically Black university in the South (their mom is an alumna of Fisk University in Nashville, and the twins went to Spelman College). They haven't traveled to Nigeria, and do not speak their father's native language, Igbo. And yet, the sounds and scents of the home they were raised in were decidedly Nigerian.
The writer and director Adamma Ebo counts "Kiki's Delivery Service" as one of her favorite films and returns to it often. She loves how the Japanese film director Hayao Miyazaki captures moments of stillness between tension and chaos.
"Growing up, we were definitely the African kids," Adamma said, "but definitely not African enough for our Nigerian folks."
In 2022, the sisters signed a multi-year development deal with Disney Television Studios. They are currently working on an animated superhero series and have formed their own production company. Its name, Ejime, means "twin" in Igbo.
"Growing up [in Atlanta], we were definitely the African kids, but definitely not African enough for our Nigerian folks." -- Adamma Ebo
Mory Sacko
At his restaurant MoSuke, in the heart of Paris, the flavors of France, West Africa and Japan are always on the menu.
By Lynsey Chutel
Photo by Felipe Romero Beltrán for The New York Times
On the menu at Mory Sacko's Michelin-starred MoSuke in Paris: a dome of chawanmushi, Japanese steamed egg custard, nestled in a dashi bouillon. Attiéké poisson, a signature Ivorian fish dish, with fermented ground cassava. Plantain served with a foie gras-based albufera sauce and caviar.
Diners may be sitting down in the 14th arrondissement, but they're beginning a journey through a delicate balance of salt, fat, acid and distinctly African influences -- the signature of a chef who describes himself as a French man with Malian heritage and a deep love of Japanese culture. "When you finish all the dishes of the menu," he said, "it's like a trip."
The name of Mory Sacko's restaurant is a combination of his first name with the 16th-century figure Yasuke, the only African Samurai in Japanese history and the subject of multiple comic books and a Netflix series.
A dish from the Michelin star chef: the pépé soup.
The result: Reservations at MoSuke are booked up months in advance. Within a year of opening in 2020, the restaurant won France's first Michelin star for West and Central African cuisine. He scored a victory for culinary diplomacy when President Emmanuel Macron invited him to cook for a banquet of African leaders in 2021. Sacko is a regular face on French television: Although he didn't win, he was a beloved contestant on the French version of "Top Chef," and now hosts "Cuisine Ouverte."
Sacko, 31, grew up in the suburbs of Paris, the sixth of nine children and the first born in France, but was raised on dishes from Mali, the Ivory Coast, Senegal, Guinea and Gabon. "I was born in France. I grew up here, and I am a French guy," he said. "But I have my roots, too."
As a child, Sacko discovered another passion: Japanese manga. Soon he sought out the food of his favorite characters, exotic to his teenage palate. It was the technique and discipline of Japanese cooking that drew him to culinary school at 14. The restaurant's name combines Sacko's first name, Mory, with that of Yasuke, the only African samurai in Japanese history.
After a decade working in Parisian restaurants, Sacko began to question what his own identity looked like on a plate.
France has a storied culinary tradition, and he wanted to record West African food in the same way. He tried to recreate his mother's Malian mafe, a beef dish slowly cooked in a peanut sauce, with chilies, tomatoes and other vegetables. Counterintuitively, it didn't quite taste like his own until he added a decidedly un-African ingredient: miso.
Sacko eschews the term "fusion." "I prefer to have something more sensitive," he said, "like 'a conversation between the cultures."'
"I was born in France. I grew up here, and I am a French guy. But I have my roots, too." -- Mory Sacko
Grace Wales Bonner
With her namesake fashion label, the designer has a mission: usher a proudly African aesthetic to the runway.
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Bafic for The New York Times
In person, the British fashion designer Grace Wales Bonner has a quiet presence about her. But in practice, the radical ambitions behind the luxury house she started in 2014 have generated serious noise.
"The aim with Wales Bonner is to bring Afro-Atlantic spirit into the idea of European luxury and elevate Black representation within fashion," the 33-year-old said last month. "To create a fashion house that represents a broader cultural perspective and connects the dots, in part as a reaction to how Black culture has been represented in fashion history."
The fashion designer conducts extensive research to create modern masterpieces with historical inspiration. Wales Bonner's Spring 2022 menswear collection (bottom) brought in patterns and styles that paid homage to 1970s nightlife in Burkina Faso (top), as captured by the photographer Sanlé Sory.
Fashion is famously an industry that struggles with structural change, adept at mining Black culture for its runways without installing Black talent into meaningful positions of power in either its design studios or its boardrooms. Wales Bonner, who has a white English mother and a Black Jamaican father and describes herself as "mixed race," has been steadily challenging that status quo since she graduated from the famed London design school Central Saint Martins in 2014.
From her earliest years, she has married European couture traditions with inspiration from across the African diaspora: Her menswear melds the formality of Savile Row with motifs such as Rastafarian-striped crochets or cowrie shells, while sprinkling in hat tips to figures like the American writer James Baldwin, the Saint Lucian poet Derek Walcott and the Burkinabe photographer Sanlé Sory, who inspired her spring collection last year. Every collection -- which now also includes women's wear and accessories -- is underpinned by archival research so exhaustive and meticulous that Wales Bonner considers it an "artistic practice unto itself" she said. In high school, she added, she wanted to be a historian.
Using her own mixed heritage as a point of departure, Wales Bonner traces the far-reaching branches of the African diaspora across space and time through clothes. Take her most recent show in June, inspired by long-distance runners, where models including the Ethiopian athletes Tamirat Tola and Yomif Kejelcha walked the runway to live performances by musicians from Ethiopia. Wales Bonner is adept at using canny collaborations to build a sense of power through community, whether she's designing shirts for the Jamaican national soccer teams or producing a capsule collection of T-shirts with the American artist Kerry James Marshall, whose approach to centralizing and refocusing Black figures within the Western art canon "really influenced my own ideas about fashion and beauty," Wales Bonner said.
Together with designers including Virgil Abloh and Ibrahim Kamara, Wales Bonner has made significant strides toward her original mission: to elevate Blackness within high fashion and usher a proudly African aesthetic to the runway. This year, she began showing collections in Paris, the creative and commercial epicenter of luxury fashion, and her name has been floated for high-profile roles at some of the biggest French fashion houses. But her focus now, she said, is on growing her own brand and making it "an important institution, redefining what 'heritage' in luxury can mean in the 21st century."
"It's about engaging with the system but also bringing other elements to it," she said. "I don't see what I do as being an outsider. You can have more influence being part of something and disrupting from within."
"The aim ... is to bring Afro-Atlantic spirit into the idea of European luxury and elevate Black representation within fashion." -- Grace Wales Bonner
Lesley Lokko
As architecture curator of this year's Venice Biennale, Lokko sent the message: Creativity is decidedly not the prerogative of the global North.
By Elizabeth Paton
Photo by Ronan McKenzie for The New York Times
Venice may be an ancient city of traditional splendor. But visitors to its Architecture Biennale this year are invited into "The Laboratory of the Future." For the first time in the exhibition's 40-year history, the focus is on Africa and the Black diaspora. And its curator is the Ghanaian Scottish architect, academic and novelist Lesley Lokko -- also the Architecture Biennale's first curator of African descent.
Lokko, 59, is the founder of the African Futures Institute, an architecture institution in Accra, Ghana, that brings together teaching, research and public events. She has taught in South Africa, Britain and the United States, pushing Western establishments toward new thinking about Africa, racial and cultural identity, and their relationship to physical space. At the heart of her curation of the Biennale, Lokko said in an interview from Venice last month, was a question: What does it mean to be a meaningful agent of change in the 21st century?
Much of Lokko's academic research and curation focuses on architects in Africa and across the diaspora. At this year's Venice Architecture Biennale, she featured Hood Design Studio of Oakland, Calif., which drew on basket-weaving for its installation (top), and the Pritzker-winner Diébédo Francis Kéré's Lycée Schorge Secondary School in Koudougou, Burkina Faso (bottom).
"There is a narrative of lack that continues to dominate perspectives of the global South. Imagination and creativity are perceived as a prerogative of the global North," Lokko said. "But Africa's unique context, which is both hugely challenging but also richly creative, makes it a powerful place from which to examine the issues that will dominate the next century, from climate and societal change to new forms of governance."
In 2021, only one-third of the Architecture Biennale's participants were from outside Europe and the U.S. In 2023, more than half of the 89 exhibitors are from Africa or its diaspora. The show features established names such as Sumayya Vally of South Africa and the Pritzker Prize winner Diébédo Francis Kéré of Burkina Faso, as well as emerging talents such as Mariam Issoufou Kamara of the Niger-based atelier masomi; the Rwandan architect Christian Benimana, of MASS Design Group; and the spoken word poet Rhael "LionHeart" Cape, whose video installation opens the exhibition with a giant screen that flashes through calls for action on current housing, displacement and migration crises.
A common thread among many of the Biennale participants, Lokko said, is the ability to "shape-shift" and adapt to different cultures and contexts while stretching conventional definitions of architecture. One exhibit she highlighted was from Looty, an anonymous collective that presents 3-D scans of artworks taken from colonized nations by major Western museums. The works have been made into NFTs, or "digital restitutions," which then make it easier for anyone to study or even acquire.
The act of shape-shifting also applies to Lokko.
"Scotland was shiver. Ghana was sweat," she told The Times earlier this year of her childhood split between Dundee and Accra. Raised by a Ghanaian surgeon father before being sent to an English boarding school in her teens, she originally thought she would be a novelist (she has since written 13 books). The writers Nadine Gordimer and Toni Morrison, she said, first made her aware that "the world in front of me wasn't the only world available."
Life as an architect, however, gave her a chance to ground herself after a childhood spent shuttling between cultures; now, she calls teaching "her happy place." She's excited by the prospect of a more progressive future for architecture, where change doesn't come solely from the West or the North.
"Creativity born out of necessity has incredible value," she said. "Now the world needs to recognize it."
"There is a narrative of lack that continues to dominate perspectives of the global South. Imagination and creativity are perceived as a prerogative of the global North." -- Lesley Lokko
Toheeb Jimoh
His Nigerian heritage has shaped two of the British actor's most prominent roles: Sam Obisanya on "Ted Lasso" and Tunde on "The Power."
By Precious Adesina
Photo by Olivia Lifungula for The New York Times
Like Sam Obisanya, the Nigerian soccer player he played on "Ted Lasso," Toheeb Jimoh has spent his life straddling two worlds. Sam's journey on the Apple TV+ show revolved around him acclimating to a new culture after relocating from his home country to play for the fictional soccer team AFC Richmond in London.
Jimoh's odyssey has been a bit more complicated. Born in London, the actor spent his early years in Nigeria, where he was often teased about his origins: Classmates would call him "London boy," even though young Jimoh had no memory of the city. Then, at 7, he moved back to Britain and, suddenly, "my Nigerianess was the thing that set me apart from other people," he said in a recent Zoom interview. "It felt like if I wanted to fit in, that was the thing that I needed to get rid of." Consequently, "my accent changed, and I kind of had to reject my culture a little bit just to acclimatize."
Jimoh, who grew up in both Nigeria and England, feels connected to both countries. Here, Nigerians in London celebrate the African nation's newly gained independence from British rule on Oct. 1, 1960.
Jimoh, 26, has since embraced his heritage, his understanding of his West African culture informing roles like Sam, as well as Tunde, a Nigerian video journalist Jimoh played earlier this year on Amazon Prime's "The Power."
His breakout role as Sam -- rewritten from Ghanaian to Nigerian after Jimoh was cast -- "gave me a different sense of power on set." Jimoh consulted on questions such as what the Nigerian restaurant Sam opens in season three should look like. In 2022, he was nominated for an Emmy for the role. "For me, the important thing was just having a bit of authorship in how Nigerian stories are told," he said.
Today, Jimoh said, people are "demanding more from storytellers," including acknowledging that Africans and members of the diaspora are not a monolith. He is in increasingly good company: Ncuti Gatwa ("Sex Education"), Michaela Coel ("I May Destroy You") and Samuel Adewunmi ("The Last Tree"), among others, have played wildly different characters in recent years, all grounded in the diaspora.
Jimoh wants African actors in the diaspora to have access to a wider array of roles. This summer, he played the male lead opposite Isis Hainsworth in Rebecca Frecknall's staging of "Romeo and Juliet," which garnered critical acclaim.
Jimoh, though, is quick to add that he hopes Nigerians and other members of the diaspora will be afforded the same range of roles as actors from Western countries. "As much as I want to play Nigerians and be a voice and spokesperson for Nigerian people, that's not all of who I am," he said. "I'm also a Black British kid." Jimoh recently completed a glowingly reviewed run as Romeo in "Romeo and Juliet" at the Almeida Theatre in London, a "challenging and rewarding experience" that allowed him to put his own stamp on a classically British role.
"I hope I'll get to have the same types of careers as all the other people I've grown up watching," he said.
"As much as I want to play Nigerians and be a voice and spokesperson for Nigerian people, that's not all of who I am. I'm also a Black British kid." -- Toheeb Jimoh
Nkuli Mlangeni-Berg
Her colorful, geometric textiles have roots in the native craftsmanship of Peru and her own Indigenous background in South Africa.
By Lynsey Chutel
Photo by Patricia Reyes for The New York Times
Seven years ago, Nkuli Mlangeni-Berg, a South African textile designer, traveled to South America to research fabrics and discovered echoes of her homeland. In Lima, Peru, she met Mario Quispe, an Indigenous artisan who shared the weaving techniques of his Quechua culture. The weft and warp of his handloom created geometric patterns that mirrored the colorful ones adorning the homes of the Ndebele people, from whom Mlangeni-Berg is descended.
Mlangeni-Berg returned to South Africa, determined to continue their cross-cultural conversation. She trekked across southern Africa, until her search for handwoven textiles took her to a town on the edge of South Africa's Karoo desert, where, like Quispe, a group of women held onto the techniques of their ancestors.
Mlangeni-Berg works with artisans, including weavers in the Karoo Desert (bottom), to create handwoven textiles like the award-winning Sankara rug (top).
She brought their work to the Ninevites, a collaborative studio she founded in 2012 that produces rugs, throws, pillows, art and ceramics. Artisans in Peru and South Africa weave together mohair, alpaca and sheep wool to realize the studio's designs. One of their earliest works, the Sankara Rug, was voted the most beautiful object in South Africa in 2017 by Design Indaba, a global gathering hosted in South Africa each year.
Mlangeni-Berg, 41, was raised in Kagiso, outside Johannesburg. She often traveled north to Hammanskraal, where her great-grandmother worked as a traditional healer in her Ndebele community. "Textiles played a very big part in every single ceremony that we had at home," Mlangeni-Berg said. "When you're born, you're given a blanket," she said. "When you turn a certain age, when you come of age and you're given a blanket, and when you die your casket is wrapped with a blanket."
Her designs draw on the geometry of her Ndebele culture, the beading and cloth of her Swati heritage and the innovation of her parents' generation, who adorned their apartheid-era houses with homemade grass mats, and tailored their hand-me-down clothes. "Design back at home, it's so much about making the best of what you have," said Mlangeni-Berg.
After marrying, Mlangeni-Berg moved to Sweden in 2020, where she continues her textile research in a masters program. She's especially drawn to how African American art movements of the 20th century sought connection to Africa. "I am very curious about what connects us as a people beyond the struggle," she said.
Though she has been embraced internationally -- Monocle Design Awards recognized her as 2021's "Best New Talent" -- Mlangeni-Berg's focus remains on Africa for new collaborations. The Ninevites created two rugs for the Swedish décor brand Svenskt Tenn with the Algerian artist Walid Bouchouchi. And Mlangeni-Berg's patterns are featured on the cover of the novel "Glory," by the Zimbabwean author NoViolet Bulawayo.
Reflecting on her transcontinental journey and practice, she said, "I think we need to heal ourselves and decolonialize all these ideas that we grew up thinking and feeling and all these things that we had to subscribe to as Black people and as Black artists."
"I am very curious about what connects us as a people beyond the struggle." -- Nkuli Mlangeni-Berg
Edited and produced by Veronica Chambers, Anna Diamond, Alice Fang, Farah Fleurima, Laurie Goodstein, Jennifer Harlan, Marcelle Hopkins, Antonio de Luca, Eve Lyons, Eric Nagourney, Nancy Ramsey, Lynda Richardson and Dan Saltzstein.

Subject: Rap music; Motion pictures; Afrofuturism; Popular music; Black people; Fashion designers; Musical performances; Social networks; Design; Visual artists; Diaspora

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Kenya; Nigeria; United Kingdom--UK; Africa; Los Angeles California; Ghana; Europe

People: Bearden, Romare (1911-1988); Lee, Spike

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/11/16/world/africa/african-artists-ruth-carter-mr-eazi.html

Title: Creatively Inspired By Africa:   [Projects and Initiatives ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.28

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 7, 2024

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2910905076

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creatively-inspired-africa/docview/2910905076/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dangling Wedding Cakes, and Other Updated Traditions: [Society Desk]

Author: Strauss, Alix

Publication info: Strauss, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dangling-wedding-cakes-other-updated-traditions/docview/2907839014/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some time-honored customs have been reimagined for modern brides and grooms seeking a touch of nostalgia with a contemporary twist.
While some tried and true wedding traditions may have lost their luster, wedding professionals are taking note of modern iterations that honor and elevate classic trends.
"Couples are looking to put their own spin on traditions and refresh them," said Heather Balliet, an owner of Amorology Weddings, a wedding planning and event company in San Diego. "They want to update and personalize them while holding onto remnants."
Here are a few old-school wedding traditions that have undergone inventive upgrades for the modern age. From cozy, family dining to floating cakes, industry experts share examples of how events have evolved as couples seek to make their celebrations more inclusive and memorable.
Elevated Guest Portraits
Everyone wants to capture everything -- usually all at once. Polaroids were kitschy and Warholian. The huge photo booths that spit out a photo strip were cheeky. Roaming photo machines, complete with props, have had their moment. "Though these offered an interactive experience and a memento from the wedding, they were cheesy and very playful," said Kelly McWilliams, the owner of Kelly McWilliams Celebrations, Weddings and Parties, in Cape Coral, Fla. "Couples are returning to old-school, black-and-white guest portrait photography where photographers set up mini studios at their wedding."
Ms. McWilliams said that couples who desired more sophistication were leaning into an old money aesthetic. "Candid portrait photos tell a story in a different way," she added. "They're professionally positioned, more artistic and timeless. There's a slowdown and care as opposed to an Insta, whimsical feel which couples have grown tired of."
Some photographers offer both guest portraits and full wedding coverage services. "Your photographers are running around, capturing all of your moments that will tell the story of your wedding," Ms. McWilliams said. "Portraits are edited, Vogue-imagery photos, usually of the guests, that are keepsakes for everyone."
Gifting the Bouquet
Tossing the bouquet can feel outdated. As couples seek to include meaningful traditions into their celebrations, an "anniversary dance" is being substituted and embraced in place of the ritual bouquet toss, which is reserved for the single women in attendance.
"Southern weddings are steeped in tradition but also honor its elders," said Autumn Washington, the owner of Lavender by Autumn, a wedding planning firm in Atlanta. "The purpose is to re-gift the bouquet and acknowledge another couple, usually the one married the longest."
In this more updated version of the tradition, a D.J. will often play a love song while calling all married couples to the dance floor, Ms. Washington said. Couples married five years or less are generally asked to sit out first. The D.J. might go incrementally by decades during the next several rounds until all but one couple is left standing.
"The last couple remaining are given the bouquet and praised for their longevity and commitment to having found love," she said, a gesture she believed was more hopeful and meaningful. "Usually that couple is asked to give words of advice or wisdom. It celebrates people who found love rather than singling out someone hoping for love."
Others who want to keep the bouquet toss in their wedding, but agree that it can be exclusive, are finding more inclusive iterations. Ms. Balliet, from Amorology Weddings, said she was seeing brides tossing what appears to be one bouquet but releases into single or mini clusters of flowers as it drops -- "enough for everyone participating to receive something," she said, adding that couples don't like highlighting single people anymore. "This surprises the guests and is more about sharing the love and the fortune that comes from that bouquet."
Leave a Message at the Beep
If you're still offering a paper guest book for attendees to scribble 'congratulations,' you might as well use squid ink and parchment paper, some industry experts say.
"They're dated," said Danielle Rothweiler, the owner of Danielle Rothweiler Events and Designs, a wedding planning and design company in Verona, N.J. "No one wants to write anything when you have a martini in your hand."
Guest books, which went from being ubiquitous and obligatory to customized -- in some modern versions, guests may scrawl sweet sentiments on a canvas with a photo of the couple on it -- have been replaced with interactive digital voice recording options. Some couples, for example, may provide faux phones for guests to leave a voice message to the couple and, perhaps, authentically capture the feel and emotion of the event.
"Voice messaging on texts and Instagram have become part of daily life; it makes sense this would reflect that behavior," said Ms. Rothweiler, who added that different styles of phones and installations can seamlessly match the couple's personality and décor. "Audio lets couples relive the emotion and happiness of their guests. They can also hear the noise in the background, which is part of the experience." FêteFone, for example, lets couples purchase 20 different retro or vintage phones, ranging from $ 199 to $ 449. After guests hear the couples' prerecorded outgoing message on the phones, they are able to leave their own.
"Some couples display the phones in their homes as an audible memory you can listen to by lifting the receiver," said Michael Radolinski, the owner of FêteFone, adding that messages can also be transferred onto a USB drive.
While After the Tone offers rentable phones or a virtual dial-in option, allowing friends and family who are unable to attend to feel included by calling from their own phones and leaving voice mail messages. Additional interactive visuals are created by designers who can build a structure and installation that mirrors the couple's theme.
Sweets Suspended in Midair
Wedding cakes dropping from the ceiling or appearing as if they're floating on a customized swinging structure are not signs you've had too much to drink. They're the new way these sweet treats are often being displayed "because couples want a romantic, curated, ethereal dessert experience," said Lois Caplan, an owner of Arrangements Unlimited, an event planning and design firm in King of Prussia, Penn.
A multitiered wedding cake wheeled in on a cocktail-size table was once the visual guests expected. The newlyweds would then cut the cake together, which was traditionally considered their first act as a married couple.
Ms. Caplan said swinging cakes or those rigged from the ceiling and then lowered into the event space were an unexpected surprise for guest, but a significant addition to the budget for the couple.
"It's Cartier for cakes," she said. Ms. Caplan added that the additional costs for a cake swing, which would be customized to fit with the décor, and includes the structure, additional florals, and 25 to 30 hours of labor, could increase a couple's budget by as much as $ 10,000. The fee for the cake is separate.
"Couples want a 'wow' reaction from their guests when they see it," she said. "It's become a showcase within the wedding."
Cozy Family Dining
Some couples are forgoing the sweetheart's table, which typically featured an intimate setting for two positioned a few feet away from the other seated guests, in favor of a table of close family members that resembles "someone's dining room," said Emily Campbell, the founder and executive producer of GoBella Design & Planning, an event company in Breckenridge, Colo.
"Historically, couples wanted a little liberation and privacy," she said. "Now they want a sentimental, nostalgic family feel. Couples are asking for a family table filled with their parents and grandparents."
To make these experiences feel authentic, Ms. Campbell added that tables might often feature family china and other heirloom tableware lent for the occasion by the bride or by family members.
"A family recipe is sometimes given to the chef to incorporate into the planned menu, and chandeliers are hung extra low, at four feet instead of a regular 10, to create a cozy feel," she said.
Photograph Cake displays, like other wedding traditions, are being reinvented. Above, some couples are discarding the idea of wheeling in a cake on a table, preferring to present it suspended in midair. Left, digital voice recording options have replaced guest books at some weddings; guests can use a phone to leave the newlyweds a voice mail message (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELI TURNER STUDIOS; THIS MODERN ROMANCE) This article appeared in print on page ST15.

Subject: Weddings; Families & family life; Design; Traditions; Photographers; Couples; Love; Single persons

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/28/style/modern-wedding-traditions.html

Title: Dangling Wedding Cakes, and Other Updated Traditions:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 31, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907839014

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dangling-wedding-cakes-other-updated-traditions/docview/2907839014/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Basking In the Company Of Brilliance: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Lubow, Arthur

Publication info: Lubow, Arthur. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/basking-company-brilliance/docview/2901726679/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A show about Lee Miller focuses on her personal life, as wife, consort of Man Ray, muse to Picasso. She awaits wider recognition for her artistry. With as many avatars as a Hindu god, Lee Miller appeared in her lifetime as a gorgeous fashion model, daring war photojournalist, and Man Ray's photographic assistant and lover. "Seeing Is Believing: Lee Miller and Friends," an exhibition at Gagosian in Manhattan through Dec. 22, explores an overlooked aspect of this intriguing woman, as the longtime wife of Roland Penrose, the English Surrealist painter, scholar and collector.
Drawn largely from the Penrose family's holdings at their farmhouse in East Sussex, England, where Miller lived from 1949 until her death in 1977, the show downplays the photographs Miller made alongside Man Ray in Paris in the 30s, as well as the fascinating Surrealist-tinged landscapes she captured in Egypt later in that decade when she was married to her first husband, the wealthy businessman Aziz Eloui Bey. And except for two prints, it omits her most consequential work: the harrowing World War II photographs she took as a correspondent for Vogue, particularly of bombed-out buildings in London and the revenge killings, suicides, concentration camp corpses and other horrors in Germany in the aftermath of defeat.
Explaining his focus, Jason Ysenburg, who organized the show with Richard Calvocoressi, an art historian, said, "I thought the relationship with Roland Penrose was a very interesting one, and a lot of people didn't know about it." Amusing and gregarious, Miller also interacted with a broad network of artists, including Pablo Picasso, Henry Moore, Joseph Cornell and Dora Maar, all of whom appear in the exhibition.
"She wasn't really a muse or a patron, but she did bring these people together," Ysenburg said. "I admire her for the way she got things done and for what she achieved." However, it can be argued that it's a little premature to focus on Miller's personal accomplishments. Unlike Picasso and Man Ray, she awaits wider recognition for her artistry.
Photos that Miller and Penrose took with their friends and then pasted into scrapbooks are featured in the book and the exhibition. Most evocative are those made in the summer of 1937. Having just begun their romance, the couple vacationed in the South of France with Picasso and Maar, his lover at the time, and Man Ray and Adrienne Fidelin, his first serious girlfriend after the breakup with Miller. Ominous clouds of war were gathering on the horizon, and it feels like they are basking in the last sunshine before the deluge. Picasso was close to both Penrose, who would later write his biography, and Miller. For reasons known only to him, in the six portraits of Miller that he painted, he chose to color her blond hair green. Penrose bought one of the paintings, still owned by the family and included in the exhibition.
In her youth, Miller was so beautiful and charismatic that her artistic talent could easily be overlooked. Once she was older, drinking too much and often depressed, she avoided all discussion of her achievements as a photographer. As evidenced by Whitney Scharer's "The Age of Light," a widely reviewed fictionalized treatment of her life published in 2019, she is firstly remembered even today as the consort of Man Ray, a romantic relationship that lasted only three years.
That may be changing. A new movie, "Lee," which was screened this year at the Toronto Film Festival, stars Kate Winslet, who also co-produced. Based on "The Lives of Lee Miller," a biography written by Miller's son, Antony Penrose, the film more fully explores Miller's career as a wartime photographer. It testifies to the growing interest, in the nearly half century since her death, in her convention-defying photography. "If she saw a frontier, she wanted to be on the other side of it, whether it was the frontier in Germany or the exclusion of women photojournalists," Antony Penrose said in an interview last month.
His appreciation of his mother came late. As a child and young man, he could only see her difficulties. "The slightest provocation would cause her to throw a scene and embarrass everyone, fully realizing she was alienating herself from the people whose affection she craved," he wrote in "The Lives of Lee Miller."
Only after she died did Antony acquaint himself with Miller's war reportage. His wife, Suzanna Penrose, found in the attic a dispatch Miller sent from the battle of Saint-Malo in 1944. "At first, I couldn't believe she had written it," he recalled. "Then Roland went and pulled out the copy of Vogue with her byline on it. In that moment I suddenly realized that I had gotten her wrong. I had thought of her as a useless drunk and hysterical figure. She was in fact a very accomplished and courageous woman."
Researching the biography, which was published in 1985, led him to another startling discovery. In Los Angeles he interviewed his mother's younger brother, Erik, who excused himself at one point to consult with his wife. On his return, he said, "There is something we think you should know." When she was 7, he told his nephew, Miller was raped by a babysitter and infected with gonorrhea. Before antibiotics, treatment for the venereal disease was clumsy, intrusive and only partially successful. Miller kept the secret throughout her life, not even telling Roland.
"Now I could understand why it was so difficult for her to allow herself to be in a loving relationship," Antony said.
In her later years, Miller turned away from professional photography and embraced cooking. Studying at the Cordon Bleu and elaborately entertaining guests at her farmhouse, Farleys, she also published some of her recipes in Vogue. When she used her camera, it was mainly to portray visitors: Picasso dandling Antony on his knee or the Museum of Modern Art director Alfred Barr Jr. feeding the hogs.
Although her decline is usually attributed to the hideous sights she witnessed in Germany, her sexual violation may have been at the root of it, according to her son. "We all know now that a trauma, particularly a childhood one, never goes away," Penrose remarked. "All that happens is it gets repressed and frozen."
Further exploring his parents' relationship (Roland died in 1984), Penrose has just compiled and published a heavily illustrated book of their correspondence, "Love Letters: Bound in Gold Handcuffs." (The title alludes to a set of handcuffs by Cartier that Roland gave to Lee during their courtship.) Although reading the love letters of other people can be as stultifying as listening to them recount their dreams, the volume also offers a generous sampling of Miller's photographs, including her underappreciated Egyptian landscapes.
Both "Seeing Is Believing" and "Love Letters" present the private side of Miller. The exhibition, in particular, amplifies the later life of a figure far better known for her glamorous youth: the launching of her modeling career when, incredibly, a passer-by who saved her from being hit by a car on a Manhattan street turned out to be the fashion magazine magnate Condé Nast; flicking on a light for a few seconds in Man Ray's darkroom in Paris because a mouse ran over her foot and accidentally introducing her mentor to the highlighting effect known as solarization; and taking a bath in Hitler's Munich apartment in April 1945 once American troops occupied the city.
But is Miller's reputation really enhanced by regarding her as a wife, muse and friend of the famous? Sometimes the challenge when considering an artist is appreciating the work unclouded by personal myths: van Gogh without the mutilated ear, Pollock without the drunken fatal car crash. After visiting the exhibition, seeing the movie and reading the love letters, you should go back to the photographs, which constitute the achievement for which Miller is deservedly best remembered.
"Seeing Is Believing: Lee Miller and Friends"
Through Dec. 22, Gagosian, 976 Madison Avenue, Manhattan; 212 744-2313; Gagosian.com.
Clockwise from top, "LM Wearing Patou Hat, 1930," a portrait of Lee Miller by Man Ray; Miller's "Picnic, Île Sainte-Marguerite, Cannes, France, 1937," with, from left, Nusch Éluard, Paul Éluard, Roland Penrose, Man Ray and Adrienne Fidelin; Miller's "Burgermeister of Leipzig's daughter after suicide, Germany 1945"; Picasso's "A L'Arlésienne -- Portrait of Lee Miller" (1937). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAN RAY 2015 TRUST/ADAGP, PARIS 2023; LEE MILLER ARCHIVES, ENGLAND; VIA GAGOSIAN; ESTATE OF PABLO PICASSO/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK) This article appeared in print on page C13.

Subject: War; Photographs; Surrealism; Biographies; Physical restraints; Motion picture festivals; Letters

Location: France; Germany

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/14/arts/design/lee-miller-photographer-gagosian.html

Title: Basking In the Company Of Brilliance:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 15, 2023

column: Last Chance

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2901726679

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/basking-company-brilliance/docview/2901726679/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Music Inspired by Drug Trade Is Loved and Loathed in Mexico: [Correction]

Author: Cantú, Elda

Publication info: Cantú, Elda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/music-inspired-drug-trade-is-loved-loathed-mexico/docview/2898215771/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Inspired by a century-old genre from the Mexican countryside, the latest pop music phenomenon is drawing thousands of young fans -- and criticism for its violent references.
In many Mexican towns where wars between drug cartels continue to wreak havoc, the sight of a young man at night dressed in black and donning a balaclava would be terrifying. On a recent Saturday in Mexico City, Peso Pluma strutted across the stage in the same outfit, to excited cheers: It was time for the corrido tumbado concert.
The 24-year-old breakout star, who makes a modern take on traditional Mexican music, wore a glamorous Fendi version of a sicario (or hit man) uniform. He faced a stadium full of fans and shouted, "Are you ready to witness the most warlike concert of your life?"
The crowd roared back: It was ready. Later, during "El Gavilán," the audience sang in unison, "I'm of the people of Chapo Guzmán," a reference to one of Mexico's most notorious drug lords.
Peso Pluma, along with acts like Natanael Cano, Grupo Firme, Eslabon Armado and Banda MS, is at the forefront of a musical movement that has found growing audiences this year in the United States and beyond. The artists perform corridos tumbados (or trap corridos), which combine singing and rapping familiar to fans of hip-hop and reggaeton with instrumentation and melodies common to traditional Mexican music, along with lyrics inspired by narcocorridos -- songs that tell stories of the drug trade.
But even as Peso Pluma racks up millions of streams and Grupo Firme tours arenas in the United States, these artists often find themselves in contested territory at home, where the drug war isn't a dramatic fantasy but a bloody daily reality.
"They are striking a nerve of Mexican culture," said Camilo Lara, 48, a music producer, composer and former label executive with extensive film credits. He cited how the artists have tapped into "the relationship with violence, the relationship with the street, with politics, with what's happening with fashion," and added, "It's the most exciting moment in Mexican music in 20 or 30 years."
Peso Pluma's stadium show at Foro Sol, a venue that holds more than 60,000 people, was the last of his concerts in his home country after several cancellations over security threats. Days earlier, authorities in Tijuana had banned corridos tumbados in all public spaces with fines of up to $ 70,000.
While the sounds and the faces may be fresh, these artists are heirs of a musical tradition that has long attracted controversy. In 1987, the governor of Sinaloa asked local news media to stop the broadcast of music that made reference to drug trafficking. In 2002, radio stations in the border state of Baja California agreed not to play songs that exalted narcos and asked their U.S. counterparts to do the same. In 2010, conservative Mexican lawmakers presented a bill that would have sent artists who glorified criminals to prison.
"The decision to ban these corridos tumbados is to protect the mental health of Tijuana's children," the city's mayor, Montserrat Caballero Ramírez, said last month through a spokesman. In May, Cancun banned public shows "that foster violence," saying such events contradicted the pursuit of peace and security; Grupo Firme canceled a concert there shortly after. Two months later, Chihuahua's City Council voted unanimously to fine public shows promoting violence.
Officials contend it is not censorship. "They can sing whatever they want," Mexico's president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, said this summer, "but we are not going to keep quiet when they say that Ecstasy is good, that they have a .50 caliber gun and the most famous narcos are their idols." A month later, perhaps in tacit recognition of the influence of corridos tumbados, the government released its own kind of tumbado: a song warning of the dangers of fentanyl.
The artists have pointed out that their lyrics aren't aimed at children. "I know sometimes it's not OK for kids to see or hear this," Peso Pluma said in an interview, "but it's a reality."
The reality is also that this type of music, once very locally rooted and associated with an older generation, is attracting global attention for its catchiness and cachet. The songs are not only fixtures of radio stations in Los Angeles, but are draws for concertgoers in Lima and Madrid and have made fans of celebrities like Mike Tyson and the band Maneskin.
"I heard it at a wedding," said Javier Nuño, a partner at Indice, a company that has licensed Peso Pluma's and Cano's songs for HBO. Once you cross over into wedding D.J. playlists, "you are at another level," he added.
At Peso Pluma's Mexico City show, kids arrived in droves -- mostly teenage boys dressed in Air Jordans, oversize hoodies and outfits featuring Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry logos in models, colors and materials Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry have probably never manufactured. Some dared to sport Peso Pluma's signature mullet.
Oliver Medrano, 35, said his 9-year-old, Sofía, had asked for tickets. The two gave up their seats close to the stage and watched instead from the bleachers after the girl's mother protested. "They say the songs are too war-driven," Medrano said. Sofía said she had become hooked on "El Belicón" ("The Belligerent"), Peso Pluma's song about a man who boasts of owning sports cars, bazookas and Kalashnikovs.
"I was a bit worried about security," Medrano said. But mid-concert he felt confident enough to ask the couple next to him to watch his daughter while he made a quick bathroom run.
Leonardo Manuel, 12, attended the show in a blue velour tracksuit with rhinestones arranged in the Fendi logo with his aunt, Elizabeth Rubí Cruz, who works at a jewelry store; she said there was a high demand for Cuban-style chains, thanks to the influence of Peso Pluma. Clients "like how he dresses," she said. The pair's favorite song? "Lady Gaga," about a dealer hanging out with influencers ("none of them post to Instagram"), with mentions of Cartier, pink cocaine and Louis Vuitton.
The excitement, and controversy, surrounding the lyrical content of corridos tumbados in Mexico in many ways mirrors decades of debate in the United States over the real-life implications of rap lyrics. From N.W.A to Jay-Z and Rick Ross, many of the most popular hip-hop artists have relied on the imagery of drug kingpins for both glitz and grit. Beginning with the gangster rap of the 1980s and '90s and continuing through the 21st-century hip-hop subgenres of trap and drill, lyrics that document -- and some say glorify -- the drug trade, its attendant violence and its spoils have remained a cultural and political battleground. Currently in Atlanta, music by the rapper Young Thug is being used in court as evidence of his membership in a criminal street gang.
"You see these guys partying with these luxuries and suddenly it's, 'How can I get this?' especially in this country, our country, which has some very strong social limitations," said Graciela Flores, a professor at the Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila.
Dr. Flores, who specializes in 19th-century crime and justice in the Mexican borderlands, organized a series of events this past fall at the university focused on corridos tumbados at the behest of one of her students. She was overwhelmed by the attendance. "People were eager to talk about what they had seen" in terms of daily violence in their communities, she explained. The songs had moved people to share their experiences, something that Dr. Flores found "valuable, but at the same time very disturbing."
This past spring, the steps of the National Auditorium in Mexico City were filled with mothers waiting while their children attended a Natanael Cano concert. Cano, 22, is recognized as a pioneer of corridos tumbados, which absorb many elements of old-fashioned corridos: nasal voices, tololoche, accordion or brass instruments, strummed guitars.
"At the beginning I was freaked out a bit" by the lyrics, said Dolores Saldívar, 47, who sells balloons. "But now I like them." She had paid about $ 120 each for her two teenage children to attend.
Juan Bosco de la Cruz Rangel, 23, the student who had urged Dr. Flores to put on the conference, said that when he and his friends started listening to tumbados, he looked up the artists online and found them relatable -- skinny guys who liked to party and saw the police as hostile -- to a point: "We're literally them," he said. "We're their age, but without money, bands and that life." Though he faces daily dangers, he finds songs about gangs and guns provocative and unsettling. Still, he added, he understands where the lyrics are coming from. Critics of the genre "that have never been hungry, it's easy for them to say 'there's a different way"' to make a livelihood, he said.
Bringing Cano to the stage in Mexico City, Peso Pluma proclaimed that his fellow artist had "paved a road so all of us could be here" to wild cheers. Just a few days earlier, Peso Pluma had notched another milestone: his first ever Grammy nomination.
Photograph Peso Pluma's music has found a wide audience beyond Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEDIOS Y MEDIA, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A1); Natanael Cano in April 2022. He is known as a pioneer of corridos tumbados, a modern take on traditional Mexican music. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DUDELSON/GETTY IMAGES) (A6) This article appeared in print on page A1, A6.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Bans; Rap music; Artists; Lyrics; Radio stations; Drug trafficking; Musical performances; Violence; Logos; Hip hop music

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Radio stations Logos

Location: Mexico; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Fendi; NAICS: 334519, 458110; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

Title: Music Inspired by Drug Trade Is Loved and Loathed in Mexico:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2898215771

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/music-inspired-drug-trade-is-loved-loathed-mexico/docview/2898215771/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 6, 2023

Last updated: 20 23-12-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The World Loves Corridos Tumbados. In Mexico, It’s Complicated.

Author: Cantú, Elda

Publication info: Cantú, Elda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/world-loves-corridos-tumbados-mexico-s/docview/2898128675/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MEXICO CITY — In many Mexican towns where wars between drug cartels continue to wreak havoc, the sight of a young man at night dressed in black and donning a balaclava would be terrifying. On a recent Saturday in Mexico City, Peso Pluma strutted across the stage in the same outfit, to excited cheers: It was time for the corrido tumbado concert.
The 24-year-old breakout star, who makes a modern take on traditional Mexican music, wore a glamorous Fendi version of a sicario (or hit man) uniform. He faced a stadium full of fans and shouted, “Are you ready to witness the most warlike concert of your life?”
The crowd roared back: It was ready. Later, during “El Gavilán,” the audience sang in unison, “I’m of the people of Chapo Guzmán,” a reference to one of Mexico’s most notorious drug lords.
Peso Pluma — along with acts like Natanael Cano, Grupo Firme, Eslabon Armado and Banda MS — is at the forefront of a musical movement that has found growing audiences this year in the United States and beyond. The artists perform corridos tumbados (or trap corridos), which combine singing and rapping familiar to fans of hip-hop and reggaeton with instrumentation and melodies common to traditional Mexican music, along with lyrics inspired by narcocorridos — songs that tell stories of the drug trade.
But even as Peso Pluma racks up millions of streams and Grupo Firme tours arenas in the United States, these artists often find themselves in contested territory at home, where the drug war isn’t a dramatic fantasy but a bloody daily reality.
“They are striking a nerve of Mexican culture,” said Camilo Lara, 48, a music producer, composer and former label executive with extensive film credits. He cited how the artists have tapped into “the relationship with violence, the relationship with the street, with politics, with what’s happening with fashion,” and added, “It’s the most exciting moment in Mexican music in 20 or 30 years.”
Peso Pluma’s stadium show at Foro Sol, a venue that holds more than 60,000 people, was the last of his concerts in his home country after several cancellations over security threats. Days earlier, authorities in Tijuana had banned corridos tumbados in all public spaces, with fines of up to $70,000.
While the sounds and the faces may be fresh, these artists are heirs of a musical tradition that has long attracted controversy. In 1987, the governor of Sinaloa asked local news media to stop the broadcast of music that made reference to drug trafficking. In 2002, radio stations in the border state of Baja California agreed not to play songs that exalted narcos and asked their U.S. counterparts to do the same. In 2010, conservative Mexican lawmakers presented a bill that would have sent artists who glorified criminals to prison.
“The decision to ban these corridos tumbados is to protect the mental health of Tijuana’s children,” the city’s mayor, Montserrat Caballero Ramírez, said last month through a spokesperson. In May, Cancun banned public shows “that foster violence,” saying such events contradicted the pursuit of peace and security; Grupo Firme canceled a concert there shortly after. Two months later, Chihuahua’s City Council voted unanimously to fine public shows promoting violence.
Officials contend it is not censorship. “They can sing whatever they want,” Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, said this summer, “but we are not going to keep quiet when they say that ecstasy is good, that they have a .50-caliber gun and the most famous narcos are their idols.” A month later, perhaps in tacit recognition of the influence of corridos tumbados, the government released its own kind of tumbado: a song warning of the dangers of fentanyl.
The artists have pointed out that their lyrics aren’t aimed at children. “I know sometimes it’s not OK for kids to see or hear this,” Peso Pluma said in an interview, “but it’s a reality.”
The reality is also that this type of music, once very locally rooted and associated with an older generation, is attracting global attention for its catchiness and cachet. The songs are not only fixtures of radio stations in Los Angeles but are also draws for concertgoers in Lima, Peru, and Madrid and have made fans of celebrities like Mike Tyson and the band Maneskin.
“I heard it at a wedding,” said Javier Nuño, a partner at Indice, a company that has licensed Peso Pluma’s and Cano’s songs for HBO. Once you cross over into wedding DJ playlists, “you are at another level,” he added.
At Peso Pluma’s Mexico City show, kids arrived in droves — mostly teenage boys dressed in Air Jordans, oversize hoodies and outfits featuring Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry logos in models, colors and materials Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry have probably never manufactured. Some dared to sport Peso Pluma’s signature mullet.
Oliver Medrano, 35, said his 9-year-old, Sofía, had asked for tickets. The two gave up their seats close to the stage and watched instead from the bleachers after the girl’s mother protested. “They say the songs are too war-driven,” Medrano said. Sofía said she had become hooked on “El Belicón” (“The Belligerent”), Peso Pluma’s song about a man who boasts of owning sports cars, bazookas and Kalashnikovs.
“I was a bit worried about security,” Medrano said. But midconcert, he felt confident enough to ask the couple next to him to watch his daughter while he made a quick bathroom run.
Leonardo Manuel, 12, attended the show in a blue velour tracksuit with rhinestones arranged in the Fendi logo with his aunt, Elizabeth Rubí Cruz, who works at a jewelry store; she said there was a high demand for Cuban-style chains, thanks to the influence of Peso Pluma. Clients “like how he dresses,” she said. The pair’s favorite song? “Lady Gaga,” about a dealer hanging out with influencers (“none of them post to Instagram”), with mentions of Cartier, pink cocaine and Louis Vuitton.
The excitement and controversy surrounding the lyrical content of corridos tumbados in Mexico in many ways mirrors decades of debate in the United States over the real-life implications of rap lyrics. From N.W.A to Jay-Z and Rick Ross, many of the most popular hip-hop artists have relied on the imagery of drug kingpins for both glitz and grit. Beginning with the gangster rap of the 1980s and ’90s and continuing through the 21st-century hip-hop subgenres of trap and drill, lyrics that document — and some say glorify — the drug trade, its attendant violence and its spoils have remained a cultural and political battleground. Currently in Atlanta, music by rapper Young Thug is being used in court as evidence of his membership in a criminal street gang.
“You see these guys partying with these luxuries, and suddenly, it’s, ‘How can I get this?’ especially in this country, our country, which has some very strong social limitations,” said Graciela Flores, a professor at the Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila.
Flores, who specializes in 19th-century crime and justice in the Mexican borderlands, organized a series of events this past fall at the university focused on corridos tumbados at the behest of one of her students. She was overwhelmed by the attendance. “People were eager to talk about what they had seen” in terms of daily violence in their communities, she explained. The songs had moved people to share their experiences, something that Flores found “valuable, but at the same time very disturbing.”
This past spring, the steps of the National Auditorium in Mexico City were filled with mothers waiting while their children attended a Natanael Cano concert. Cano, 22, is recognized as a pioneer of corridos tumbados, which absorb many elements of old-fashioned corridos: nasal voices, tololoche, accordion or brass instruments, strummed guitars.
“At the beginning, I was freaked out a bit” by the lyrics, said Dolores Saldívar, 47, who sells balloons. “But now I like them.” She had paid about $120 each for her two teenage children to attend.
Juan Bosco de la Cruz Rangel, 23, the student who had urged Flores to put on the conference, said that when he and his friends started listening to tumbados, he looked up the artists online and found them relatable — skinny guys who liked to party and saw the police as hostile — to a point: “We’re literally them,” he said. “We’re their age, but without money, bands and that life.” Although he faces daily dangers, he finds songs about gangs and guns provocative and unsettling. Still, he added, he understands where the lyrics are coming from. Critics of the genre “that have never been hungry, it’s easy for them to say, ‘There’s a different way’” to make a livelihood, he said.
Bringing Cano to the stage in Mexico City, Peso Pluma proclaimed that his fellow artist had “paved a road so all of us could be here,” to wild cheers. Just a few days earlier, Peso Pluma had notched another milestone: his first ever Grammy nomination.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Rap music; Bans; Artists; Lyrics; Radio stations; Musical performances; Violence; Logos; Hip hop music

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Radio stations Logos

Location: Mexico; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Fendi; NAICS: 334519, 458110; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

Identifier / keyword: Cano, Natanael; Madrid (Spain); Chihuahua (Mexico); Baja California (Mexico); Tijuana (Mexico); Atlanta (Ga); Ecstasy (D rug); Seasons And Months; Radio; Shoes And Boots; Camilo (Singer); Drug Abuse And Traffic; Lady Gaga; Peace Process; Arts; Tyson, Mike; United States; Maneskin (Music Group); Entertainment; N W A (Music Group); Gangs; Los Angeles Sol (Soccer Team); Youth; Burberry; Politics And Government; California; Rap And Hip Hop; Mexico City (Mexico); Nike Inc; Instagram Inc; Fendi Spa; Jewels And Jewelry; Drug Cartels; Home Box Office; Coahuila (Mexico); Music; Banda Ms (Music Group); Senses And Sensation; Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Law And Legislation; Cuba; International Relations; News And News Media; Local Government; Jay Z; Uniforms; Grupo Firme (Music Group); Cancun (Mexico); Latin Music; Louis Vuitton; Grammy Awards; Ears And Hearing; Pop And Rock Music; Peso Pluma (Musician); Gucci; Mexico; Williams, Jeffery Lamar (Young Thug); Television; Ross, Rick (1976 ); Fans (Persons); Age, Chronological

Title: The World Loves Corridos Tumbados. In Mexico, It’s Complicated.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-05T23:40:05Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2898128675

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/world-loves-corridos-tumbados-mexico-s/docview/2898128675/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Farewell to George Santos, the Perfect MAGA Republican: [Op-Ed]

Author: Goldberg, Michelle

Publication info: Goldberg, Michelle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/farewell-george-santos-perfect-maga-republican/docview/2896187582/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Should the blessed day ever arrive when Donald Trump is sent to federal prison, only one of his acolytes has earned the right to share his cell: George Santos, who on Friday became the sixth person in history to be expelled from the House of Representatives, more than seven months after he was first charged with crimes including fraud and money laundering. (He's pleaded not guilty.) A clout-chasing con man obsessed with celebrity, driven into politics not by ideology but by vanity and the promise of proximity to rich marks, Santos is a pure product of Trump's Republican Party. "At nearly every opportunity, he placed his desire for private gain above his duty to uphold the Constitution, federal law and ethical principles," said a House Ethics Committee report about Santos released last month. He's a true child of the MAGA movement.
That movement is multifaceted, and different politicians represent different strains: There's the dour, conspiracy-poisoned suburban grievance of Marjorie Taylor Greene, the gun-loving rural evangelicalism of Lauren Boebert, the overt white nationalism of Paul Gosar and the frat boy sleaze of Matt Gaetz. But no one embodies Trump's fame-obsessed sociopathic emptiness like Santos. He's heir to Trump's sybaritic nihilism, high-kitsch absurdity and impregnable brazenness.
Other politicians embody the sinister, cruel and disgusting aspects of Trumpism. Santos incarnates its venal and ridiculous side, the part rooted in reality TV and get-rich-quick schemes. As Mark Chiusano reports in his excellently timed new book about Santos, "The Fabulist," if the now ex-congressman showed much interest in politics before 2016, we don't have a record of it; his heroes were pop divas like Paris Hilton, Lady Gaga and the "Real Housewives" star Bethenny Frankel. "But by 2016," writes Chiusano, "he had found a new role model who brought celebrity glitz and gossip to civics: Donald Trump."
Perhaps the reason a critical mass of Republicans finally jettisoned Santos is that he was too embarrassing a reflection of the values of the party's de facto leader. That's certainly why I, for one, am going to miss him. A gay man and, reportedly, a former drag queen in a party consumed by homophobia and a pseudopopulist accused of bilking his campaign donors to pay for Botox, Hermès shopping trips and the adult entertainment website OnlyFans, Santos distilled the Trump movement's lurid hypocrisy to great comic effect. In a world overflowing with tragedy, he's a farce.
It's not just his grift and vanity that made Santos such a perfect avatar of the MAGA ethos. Even more significant was the defiance he showed as his flagrant wrongdoing was revealed and the way that defiance endeared him to some of Trump's most avid supporters. In December 2022, after Santos was elected but before he took office, The New York Times reported that he'd lied about his education, purported career in finance, family wealth and charitable endeavors and that he'd been charged in Brazil with using stolen checks. Santos's response was, as Chiusano writes, to "post through it," making a great show of shamelessness both online and in real life.
Much of the MAGAverse loved it. Greene became a loyal friend. As New York magazine's Shawn McCreesh reported in March, at a Manhattan birthday party for the Breitbart editor Emma-Jo Morris, Santos was "the 'It' girl. His wrists are bedizened with bling from Hermès and Cartier, and fawning fans line up for selfies." A month later, The Intercept's Daniel Boguslaw described Santos being feted at a bar in Washington: "A milieu of young conservatives, operatives and House staffers were assembling to howl in the next-gen model of Donald Trump's societal wrecking ball, and the name on everybody's lips was George Santos." A hard-core MAGA group called Washington, D.C. Young Republicans posted about Santos's "inspirational remarks" at that event, including his insistence that his enemies will have to "drag my cold, dead body" out of Congress. Gosar chimed in with an admiring response: "Based."
Adam Serwer famously wrote that, when it comes to Trump, "the cruelty is the point," but maybe the criminality is as well. Rule breaking is key to Trump's transgressive appeal; it situates him as above the strictures that govern lesser men while creating a permission structure for his followers to release their own inhibitions. That's a big part of the reason his multiple indictments appeared to only solidify his Republican support. Sure, some of his backers probably identified with his epic persecution complex, but that alone doesn't explain the worshipful enthusiasm among some of his fans for his mug shot. ("He looks hard," gushed the Fox News host Jesse Watters.) Rather, many people on the right thrill to displays of impunity from people who share their politics. In the late 1960s and 1970s, the left-wing counterculture lionized outlaws like the Hells Angels for their rebellion against a hated establishment. Today, as Santos's rise to iconic status demonstrates, a similar antinomianism has taken hold among alienated conservatives.
Of course, the devotion of part of the right-wing demimonde was not, in the end, enough to save Santos. More than half of the House Republican caucus, and most of its leaders, stood by the disgraced swindler, and Greene called his expulsion "shameful," but unlike Trump, Santos never amassed nearly enough power to force Republican institutionalists to swallow their disgust with him. Besides, as the Tennessee Republican Tim Burchett -- who voted against expulsion -- said of voters in his district, "People don't like the fact he's gay."
While he may not be a congressman anymore, Santos has said he's not done with public life. At a news conference on Thursday morning, he said he plans to be involved in the 2024 presidential race: "I won't rest until I see Donald Trump back in the White House." Hopefully, he'll pop up on the campaign trail before his trial begins next September. No one deserves to be a Trump surrogate more.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PETERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page SR4.

Subject: Conservatism; Political campaigns; Celebrities; Politics

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/01/opinion/george-santos-trump.html

Title: Farewell to George Santos, the Perfect MAGA Republican:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 3, 2023

column: Michelle Goldberg

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2896187582

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/farewell-george-santos-perfect-maga-republican/docview/2896187582/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Elliott Erwitt, 95, Photographer Who Had a Sharp Eye for Silly, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Woodward, Richard B

Publication info: Woodward, Richard B. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elliott-erwitt-95-photographer-who-had-sharp-eye/docview/2895947350/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: His camera could freeze moments in history, but he also had an eye for the humor and absurdity of everyday life. Dogs were a help there.
Photographers with a comic outlook on life seldom win the acclaim granted to exalters of nature or chroniclers of war and squalor. Elliott Erwitt, who died at 95 on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan, was an exception.
For more than six decades he used his camera to tell visual jokes, finding material wherever he strolled. His sharp eye for silly, sometimes telling conjunctions -- a dog lying on its back in a cemetery, a glowing Coca-Cola machine amid a public display of missiles in Alabama, a mangy potted plant in a tacky Miami Beach ballroom -- earned him constant assignments as well as the affection of a public that shared his sweet, Chaplin-esque sense of the absurd.
He published more than 20 books, and his black-and-white prints are in photography collections throughout the world. His daughter Sasha Erwitt confirmed the death.
Most celebrated for his witty snapshots of dogs, published in books with titles like "Son of Bitch," "To the Dogs," and "Woof," Mr. Erwitt captured them as solitary animals with their own obsessions as well as personable interactors with humans.
In an essay for Mr. Erwitt's "Dogs Dogs," P.G. Wodehouse wrote: "There's not a sitter in his gallery who does not melt the heart, and no beastly class distinctions, either. Thoroughbreds and mutts, they are all here."
The popularity of Mr. Erwitt's canine candids obscured the diversity of his work. He never specialized and always freelanced. A lifelong member and one-time president of Magnum, the esteemed collective of independent photographers -- a co-founder, Robert Capa, invited him to join in 1953 -- Mr. Erwitt took all kinds of assignments, from fashion to politics
He photographed celebrities (Humphrey Bogart, Jack Kerouac, Marilyn Monroe, Che Guevara) for Life, Look, and other magazines, and he did travel campaigns for Ireland and France.
A number of his images became famous. One of his most well known shows a veiled Jacqueline Kennedy holding a folded American flag during President John F. Kennedy's burial at Arlington National Cemetery in 1963.
Even better-known is one from 1959, of Vice President Richard M. Nixon poking Soviet Premier Nikita S. Krushchev in the chest during the so-called Kitchen Debate in a Moscow exhibition of American products. (The picture was turned into a poster by Republicans in the 1960 campaign, enraging the staunchly anti-Nixon Mr. Erwitt. "It was used without my permission," he later said. "I was angry, but I couldn't do anything about it.")
Another memorable photograph, from Edward Steichen's landmark photo exhibition "The Family of Man" (and subsequent book) at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, was titled "Mother and Child." Taken in 1953, it shows a woman on a bed looking into her baby's eyes while a cat coolly surveys the scene. The baby was Mr. Erwitt's daughter, Ellen, and the woman was his first wife, Lucienne Matthews, who died in 2011.
Museums exhibited his work from the 1960s until his death, and over the years he received one-man shows at the Museum of Modern Art, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Museum of Modern Art in Paris and the Barbican in London. In 2002, a comprehensive retrospective was mounted at the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia in Madrid.
Elio Romano Ervitz ("Romano, because my father had once attended the University of Rome" and "liked it") was born on July 26, 1928, in Paris, the son of a Russian Orthodox Jew (there were many Talmudic scholars in his family) and his Russian wife. They had fled to France after the 1917 Revolution.
In an autobiographical essay in his book "Personal Exposures" (1988), Mr. Erwitt wrote that his father, Boris, had never lost faith in socialism and had blamed his wife, Eugenia (Trepel) Erwitt ("embarrassingly rich as a young girl"), for the couple's exodus from "the Promised Land of the Soviet Paradise."
After moving the family to Italy, his father found Mussolini's regime intolerable and shuttled everyone back to France in 1938. Although Boris and Eugenia had separated in Milan when their son was 4, the three left together on a boat for the United States a year later, a few days before World War II began.
Elio Ervitz became Elliott Erwitt in New York but continued his peripatetic life. After two years living with his salesman father on Central Park West in Manhattan, father and son drove across country to Los Angeles in 1941, the two selling wristwatches in small towns en route to pay their way.
A few years later, his father was off again, this time selling his wares in New Orleans and leaving his 16-year-old son to fend for himself. Boris later traveled to Japan to be ordained as a Buddhist priest and returned to practice his adopted religion in Manhattan.
Mr. Erwitt credited "shyness" -- he had arrived in New York speaking no English -- with making him a photographer. He began seriously taking pictures in Los Angeles with an antique glass-plate camera when he was 16, then upgraded to a Rolleiflex.
"My dentist was my first customer, then people's houses and children, then the senior prom," he wrote. Photos of movie stars also sold well.
After graduating from Hollywood High School, he studied photography at Los Angeles City College, took a job in a commercial dark room and hustled for work. In 1949, he headed back to New York, where he met Capa and Steichen, studied film at the New School for Social Research and enjoyed a nascent professional career before the Army drafted him during the Korean War.
While serving in 1951 with an Army Signal Corps unit in France, he took a picture of soldiers killing time in the barracks. By his account, the photo changed his life. Submitting it to a Life magazine contest, he won a prize, and the photograph was published as "Bed and Boredom." With the $ 2,500 check ("an astronomical amount at the time"), Mr. Erwitt bought a car and nicknamed it "Thank you, Henry," after the Time-Life publisher, Henry Luce.
The unheroic and the offbeat had already become signature motifs for Mr. Erwitt. He made his first dog-related pictures in 1946, for a fashion story about women's shoes for The New York Times Magazine.
One image from that assignment, of a panting Chihuahua in a sweater on a sidewalk next to a woman in sandals, was featured in many exhibitions.
"I decided to photograph from a dog's point of view because dogs see more shoes than anybody," he reasoned.
Mr. Erwitt tended to use a view camera for advertising jobs while reserving his 35-millimeter for personal shooting. Henri Cartier-Bresson was one of many who were astonished that his friend was so easily able to do both kinds of work.
"Elliott has to my mind achieved a miracle," Mr. Cartier-Bresson once said, "working on a chain-gang of commercial campaigns and still offering a bouquet of stolen photos with a flavor, a smile from his deeper self."
Speaking four languages, a facility that allowed him to find regular work in Europe during the 1950s, '60, and '70s, Mr. Erwitt relished the freelance life.
"Some people can't stand the insecurity, but I've never been overly bothered by it," he wrote in 1988, adding that his unstable income stream was harder on his wives and girlfriends than on him.
Mr. Erwitt was married and divorced four times: to Lucienne Van Kan, from 1953 to 1960; to Diana Dann, from 1967 to 1974; to Susan Ringo, from 1977 to 1984; and to Pia Frankenberg, from 1998 to 2012.
In addition to his daughter Sasha, from his third marriage, he is survived by another daughter from that marriage, Amelia Erwitt; two daughters from his first marriage, Ellen and Jennifer Erwitt; two sons from his first marriage, Misha and David; 10 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. He lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan for about 60 years.
In the 1970s, Mr. Erwitt was among the first to benefit from the art market's interest in contemporary photographs as an investment. Brokers bought prints in bulk for tax shelters. "That windfall bought my house in East Hampton," he said.
"Photographs and Anti-Photographs," published in 1972, was the first in a string of Erwitt books. During this time he also produced and directed a series of short film documentaries: "The Many Faces of Dustin Hoffman" (1968), "Beauty Knows No Pain" (1971), "Red, White and Bluegrass" (1973), "The Glassmakers of Herat, Afghanistan" (1977), and "The Magnificent Marching 100" (1980). He continued making films in the 1980s, producing a series of 18 short comedies for HBO.
But his goofy and agile still photography will undoubtedly be his best-remembered legacy. Along with dogs, nudity tickled him, and he found as much material on public beaches as on the streets. The human comedy activated his eye, even if he was hard-pressed to explain his process of seeing.
"You can take a picture of the most wonderful situation and it's lifeless, nothing comes through," he observed. "Then you can take a picture of nothing, of someone scratching his nose, and it turns out to be a great picture."
The gentle humor of his pictures did not prevent him from maintaining a brusquely anti-intellectual stance toward what he did.
He was wary of interpretation. "In general, I don't think too much," he wrote. "I certainly don't use those funny words museum people and art critics like."
He believed photography was "a lazy man's profession" that required only "modest ability." The mystery of how he did what he did could not be explained, even by himself, and that seemed to please him. He concluded that "ideas, wonderfully entertaining as they can be in conversation and seduction, have little to do with photography."
Richard B. Woodward, a longtime art and photography critic in New York, died in April. Alex Traub contributed reporting.
Photograph Though he was most celebrated for his witty snapshots of dogs, Mr. Erwitt never specialized.; He photographed celebrities, including Marilyn Monroe in 1956, for Life and other magazines.; Elliot Erwitt in a 1976 self-portrait. For six decades he used his camera to tell visual jokes, finding material wherever he strolled.; Vice President Richard M. Nixon poking Soviet Premier Nikita S. Krushchev in Moscow in 1959.; Berkeley, Calif., 1956. Museums around the world have exhibited his work since the 1960s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELLIOTT ERWITT/MAGNUM PHOTOS); Mr. Erwitt in 2010. He began seriously taking pictures in Los Angeles when he was 16. This article appeared in print on page A24.

Subject: Cameras; Photographs; Marriage; Modern art; Personal profiles; Photography; Dogs; Art galleries & museums; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; France

People: Erwitt, Elliott

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/30/arts/elliott-erwitt-whose-photos-are-famous-and-often-funny-dies-at-95.html

Title: Elliott Erwitt, 95, Photographer Who Had a Sharp Eye for Silly, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.24

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 2, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2895947350

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elliott-erwitt-95-photographer-who-had-sharp-eye/docview/2895947350/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Going, Going ... Still Going, And Defying Market Rules: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Segal, David

Publication info: Segal, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/going-still-defying-market-rules/docview/2893512447/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Girls in the Windows" wasn't made by an art world giant, but people keep buying it. And buying it. And buying it.
Standing on a second-story fire escape, a photographer named Ormond Gigli is shouting instructions through a bullhorn. Forty models are posing in the window frames of brownstones across East 58th Street on Manhattan's Upper East Side, a menagerie of colorful dresses and evening gowns. Two more women stand on the sidewalk, next to a silver Rolls-Royce.
It is the summer of 1960 and Gigli is in a rush. Demolition on the brownstones has already begun -- that's why there's no glass in those windows -- and the day after the shoot, the buildings will be razed. But the demolition supervisor has agreed to let Gigli commandeer the place for two hours during an extended lunch break, under one condition: The supervisor wants his wife in the picture. (She's on the third floor, third from the left.)
Nobody has hired Gigli, a 35-year-old freelance commercial photographer, to create "Girls in the Windows." He's working without an assignment because he wants to memorialize those buildings, which stand directly across the street from his home studio. What he doesn't know is that the image will become one of the most collected photographs in the history of the medium.
Over the last 30 years, roughly 600 signed and numbered copies have been sold, at prices that typically range between $ 15,000 and $ 30,000. The image is offered at galleries around the world -- in New York, Los Angeles, Palm Beach, Cleveland, Atlanta, Boston, Santa Fe, London, Paris and, until the invasion of Ukraine, Moscow. Buyers who want to cut out the middleman can buy directly from the artist's estate.
"Girls in the Windows" is also a darling of the auction market. More than 160 have been offered over the years at Phillips, Christie's, Sotheby's and other houses, according to Artnet. In 2017 alone, an amazing 13 copies were put on the block and instead of depressing the prices, one of them set a record for the image, at $ 56,906. Seven have been sold at auctions this year, and on Tuesday another one sold at Phillips in London for 30,480 British pounds, roughly $ 38,000 and well over the high estimate.
The standard art market rules of supply and demand simply don't apply to "Girls in the Windows." Add up the prices of all the copies already sold and you end up with a number in the range of $ 12 million.
"We've had discussions about this internally," said Caroline Deck, senior specialist of photographs at Phillips in New York City. "It must be the highest-grossing photograph of all time."
It's hard to know for sure if that's true. A few photographs have turned up at auction more times than "Girls," including "Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico," a 1941 photograph by Ansel Adams, and Henri Cartier-Bresson's "Rue Mouffetard," a 1954 black-and-white image of a young boy proudly toting two bottles of wine down a street. And a number of individual photographs have fetched spectacular sums, including work by Man Ray ("Le Violon d'Ingres," which sold for $ 12.4 million) and Edward Steichen ("The Flatiron," $ 11.8 million).
But the notion that "Girls" might well belong in a discussion about the most valuable photographs in history raises a question: How did an otherwise obscure commercial photographer, who spent much of his career photographing celebrities and politicians for magazines like Parade and Life, crash a party filled with some of the most famous artists in the world?
The answer starts with the image, of course, which is a brassy, joyful combination of glamour and urban grit with a dash of "Mad Men"-era nostalgia. The building embodies a glorious slab of vanishing New York City, and those women look like they're ready to break into song.
"If you come to the gallery, we've got a lot of stuff hanging and that's the one they always stop in front of," said Etheleen Staley, co-founder of Staley-Wise, a gallery in SoHo, the first to sell a copy of "Girls." "They love it and they'll pay a lot of money for it and ignore that there are a million out there."
A "million" overstates the matter, but it hints at the other secret of the success of "Girls" -- a very robust supply. Starting around 2010, and before his death in 2019, Gigli produced, printed and signed hundreds of copies of the photograph, in a variety of sizes and on a variety of photographic papers. He did so at the behest of his son, Ogden, 63, a photographer who now runs his father's estate and who masterminded the unique sales strategy that turned the image into a phenomenon.
"It was all me, saying to my father, 'Whatever we do, whatever editions we make, I can sell them, don't worry,"' said the younger Gigli, from his studio in Pittsfield, Mass., home to what could be called Girls in the Windows Inc. "I saw that we needed to have inventory for the day my father passed and it was my belief that the appeal of this image would carry on forever."
Typically, fine art photographers sell five or six copies of an image in one or two sizes. Scarcity is intended to drive interest and sustain prices. "Girls" has been printed in 12 different sizes and in each size the Giglis created dozens of photographs. There are 75 copies of the 50-inch square edition, for instance, and 44 copies of the 27-inch square edition.
"The reason it's successful is that there is product for people to own," Ogden Gigli explained. "And they're not worried that there are hundreds out there. They're thinking that $ 10,000, $ 20,000, $ 30,000 isn't a lot for one of the world's best images."
Ormond Gigli grew up in New York City and took up photography in his teens. He joined the U.S. Navy during World War II, serving as a photographer, and later bought the brownstone -- still standing at 327 East 58th Street, now home to the permanent mission of the Kingdom of Cambodia to the United Nations -- where he set up his home studio. He took assignments from The Saturday Evening Post, Time and other magazines. John F. Kennedy stopped by the studio to have his portrait taken by Gigli in 1961. Boris Karloff arrived with a man dressed as Frankenstein. Gigli coaxed a mule onto the premises for a hillbilly-themed shot of the actress Gina Lollobrigida.
At some point in 1960, Gigli realized that a clutch of brownstones across the street were about to disappear. Manhattan was just entering its maximum-occupancy phase, obliterating tenements and constructing high-rise apartment buildings. The idea for "Girls" came to him close to the day of destruction.
"There was very little planning beforehand," said Sue Ellen Gigli, his wife, 95, who spoke on the phone from her son's studio. "But we knew those buildings were coming down so he thought about what he could do to remember them as they were."
Sue Ellen Gigli wasn't just an onlooker during the "Girls" shoot. She is standing in a window, second row, far right. She remembers a bit of a frenzy and a focus on costs. The 40 models came from an upstart agency, and none of them seemed to mind the pay -- $ 1 per woman for the whole gig. Nor did they flinch when asked to bring their own outfits, or do their own hair and make up.
The Rolls was borrowed from a dealership nearby. A small disaster was averted when a Con Edison crew agreed to pour concrete on a patch of sidewalk it had just dug up. The women stepped around debris to climb the tenement stairs and, from across the street, Ormond Gigli arranged them just so.
"I moved them around to spread out the colors," he told The Guardian in 2013, "and told them to pose as if they were giving someone a kiss."
The image first ran in Ladies' Home Journal, then a handful of other publications. It didn't become commercially available until 1994. That year, Sue Ellen Gigli called Sotheby's and asked if it would sell "Girls in the Windows." An in-house expert advised her to find a gallery that would represent her husband. The Giglis soon hopped on a subway to SoHo, a copy of "Girls" in hand.
"We took to it instantly," recalled Staley, the gallerist. "In the beginning it was just us. Now Ogden sells to whomever he wants."
Ogden Gigli keeps close tabs on his many sellers. If he learns that a gallery is peddling "Girls" at a discount, that gallery is cut off. And he provides copies to auction houses at a pace intended to maintain a base-line price. Which doesn't always work. Over the years, about 30 copies have failed to sell at their low estimates at auctions, Artnet reports. (The auction house will usually find a buyer privately, hold the image for a future auction or return it to Gigli.)
The vast majority, though, are gaveled out the door. Buyers rhapsodize about the image and are undaunted by the sheer quantity of "Girls" in the world.
"I didn't buy it to make money," said Jim Buslik, 73, a principal in the commercial real estate business in New York, who bought his copy in 2008. "It hit me the first time I saw it and every day after that."
Unsurprisingly, auction houses regularly contact Gigli and ask for a "Girls." That's what Phillips did a few weeks ago, requesting the copy that sold on Tuesday.
"Departments do have to hit their numbers," said Joshua Holdeman, head of the Hammond Group, an art advisory firm, who has worked at all three of the major auction houses. "And if they know it's an easy sale and it's going to sell at a certain price, it's like, totally easy money."
Gigli says he has about 100 "Girls" left, including black-and-white copies that he describes as so stunning he's a little reluctant to part with them. But he will, and once everything is sold, one of photography's most improbable runs will come to end.
Unless it doesn't. Some heirs of deceased artists produce "estate prints," which look identical and simply lack the artist's signature. (They get an estate stamp instead.) Estate prints of "Girls" would surely fetch lower prices, but how much lower is unclear.
"That's a market I need to research," Gigli said. "You never know."
Photograph Over the last 30 years, roughly 600 signed and numbered copies of Ormond Gigli's "Girls in the Windows" (top) have been sold, at prices that typically range between $ 15,000 and $ 30,000. More than 160 prints have been sold at auctions. The photographer, above, shot the piece without an assignment. His son, Ogden Gigli, above right, in his photo studio in Pittsfield, Mass., is the mastermind of the sales strategy for the work. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ORMOND GIGLI; OGDEN GIGLI; KRISTEN TOMKOWID FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU4.

Subject: Prices; Auctions; Photographs; Photographers

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

People: Gigli, Ormond

Company / organization: Name: Sothebys; NAICS: 459920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/21/business/gigli-photograph-girls-in-the-windows.html

Title: Going, Going ... Still Going, And Defying Market Rules:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 26, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893512447

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/going-still-defying-market-rules/docview/2893512447/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Former Goldman Sachs Trader Reorders Greek Politics: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Kitsantonis, Niki

Publication info: Kitsantonis, Niki. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/former-goldman-sachs-trader-reorders-greek/docview/2888522824/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The rapid ascent of Stefanos Kasselakis, a former Goldman Sachs trader and Greece's first openly gay party leader, has gripped the nation. But his leadership is dividing the country's main opposition party.
Stefanos Kasselakis was virtually unknown in Greece just six months ago when he was a no-chance election candidate with Syriza, the country's main opposition party.
These days, thanks to an electoral drubbing of that party, a meteoric ascent fueled by a skillful social media campaign, his status as a former Goldman Sachs trader and a gay politician, along with his movie-star looks, he is seemingly all anyone in Greece can talk about.
Improbably, he is now the leader of Syriza, having essentially come out of nowhere to defeat a former minister for the top role a month ago. But his leadership has sent the leftist party into a tailspin, and is expected to result in one influential faction breaking away at a top-level party meeting this weekend. It has also signaled both a reorganization of leftist politics in Greece and, some analysts say, a shift in the style of the country's politics to rely more on appearances and less on substance.
"His election is the product of the rightward drift of the previous leadership," said Seraphim Seferiades, a professor of politics and history at Panteion University in Athens, who pointed to a similar trend across Europe and beyond where the left has strayed from some of its core principles to gain broader appeal.
"Kasselakis is a prime example of this trend, the main idea being that the adoption of sheer imagery -- not just gay, but also young and energetic -- will do the trick," Mr. Seferiades added. "Well, it won't. It will exacerbate the crisis within Syriza."
A 35-year-old former Goldman Sachs trader who took over a party that just a decade ago blamed the global financial system for devastating Greece's economy, Mr. Kasselakis lived for 20 years in the United States, including in Miami and New York, before breaking into politics in his homeland. He is Greece's first openly gay party leader, and recently wed his long-term partner, Tyler McBeth, an American emergency-room nurse, in Brooklyn while pressing for the legalization of same-sex marriage in Greece.
Greek television channels have lapped it up, covering his trips to the gym with his partner and the couple's walks with their dog, Farlie, as much as his political speeches. (The newlyweds' Cartier rings were a recent focus of discussion.) But the obsession with Mr. Kasselakis' personal life has vexed party stalwarts.
Last month, five of its prominent politicians defected within a few days, several other high-profile stalwarts have since signaled their intention to leave, and a document signed by 1,300 party members that was made public on Thursday accused Mr. Kasselakis of "bullying and insolence" for trying to eject critics and moving the party away from the left. Other prominent members have referred to a "state of emergency" and "toxic climate" in the party before a meeting of its central committee this weekend.
Stelios Kouloglou, a member of the European Parliament with Syriza since 2015, last month decided to go independent rather than remain in a party that he said "has become a Netflix series."
Mr. Kasselakis has defended himself against accusations of arrogance, saying from the outset that the public put him where he is. "I'm not a phenomenon -- I'm the voice of a society," he declared after his victory in late September.
On Friday, he pledged in a video statement posted on the social media platform X not to "betray" those who had voted for him to change the party. "I won't back down," he said, adding that he would ask Syriza's central committee to approve a referendum by party members on the dismissal of four party stalwarts who he said had "brutally offended" him and the party. One of the four quit shortly after the video was released.
Mr. Kasselakis did not respond to requests for comment on Friday.
He was basically unknown before May, when -- still a resident of Miami -- he stood as an "at large" candidate on Syriza's ticket in Greece's general elections. Although that endeavor was bound to fail, given his low ranking on the ballot, it nonetheless set the scene for the next one, when Syriza's one-time firebrand leader, Alexis Tsipras, resigned after the party suffered an electoral crush by the conservative New Democracy party of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
In a July opinion essay, Mr. Kasselakis outlined his vision for a Greek version of the United States' Democratic Party, which he has supported with donations and as a volunteer for Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s 2008 presidential bid. Then, in a frank campaign video, he threw his hat into the ring for the Syriza leadership.
He told of a comfortable upbringing in one of the Greek capital's most affluent suburbs followed by a relocation to the United States at age 14 when his father's shipping business collapsed, of a three-year stint at Goldman Sachs and the creation of his own shipping firm.
He promised tax relief for workers, a separation of Greece's powerful Orthodox Church from the state and the abolition of compulsory military service.
When critics took aim at him over his policy pledges, which were thin on detail, over his banking background and over old articles in which he criticized Mr. Tsipras and praised Mr. Mitsotakis, he hit back with snappy videos saying that he had become a leftist after witnessing the inequalities sown by the banking system.
Mr. Kasselakis' sexual orientation also became a talking point in a society that remains one of Europe's most socially conservative. He reported being swamped by hate mail during his campaign, and his expression of a wish to have two sons via surrogacy fueled a furor, including a homophobic rant by a prominent mayor that is now the subject of a Supreme Court investigation.
Despite all of the media exposure, many still wonder what he stands for, apparently confused by his banking background and the fact that he is backed both by close aides to his predecessor and disaffected Syriza supporters eager for change.
Only 6 percent of 1,100 respondents to a recent poll said they viewed him as leftist, with 14 percent regarding him as right-wing. Another poll, of about 1,300 people, found that only 16 percent viewed him positively.
"This blur and contradictory identity, the lack of solid political content and discourse, as well as the fact that he had no attachment to the radical left whatsoever is what prevents him from attracting public opinion," said Lamprini Rori, a professor of political analysis at the University of Athens.
Mr. Kasselakis' ascent has come at an unsettled time in Greek politics. Despite Mr. Mitsotakis' resounding electoral victory, local elections last month suggested that his family's grip on power might be loosening, given that his nephew was unseated as mayor of Athens amid broader losses for New Democracy.
The Syriza leader rushed to herald "the first major crack in the Mitsotakis regime." But with New Democracy still holding a comfortable majority in Parliament and Syriza polling below 13 percent, that appears to be wishful thinking.
Some have attributed Mr. Kasselakis' rise to a protest vote by disgruntled Syriza supporters desperate for new blood. But whether he is a force for renewal or a catalyst for the end of a party in crisis remains to be seen.
"Kasselakis must be a unique case in the global history of politics," said Thodoris Georgakopoulos, a prominent commentator. "There have been many cases of nonpolitical celebrities cashing in their fame to gain political power. This is not such a case. The members of a political party voted a random stranger to lead it. It is beyond bizarre."
Photograph Stefanos Kasselakis recently wed his partner in Brooklyn. Greek television channels have covered his personal life extensively. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNIS PAPANIKOS/ZUMA, VIA ALAMY); Mr. Kasselakis, left, with Alexis Tsipras, his predecessor as the leader of Syriza, in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANNIS KOLESIDIS/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Local elections; Opposition parties; Political power; Democracy; Political leadership; Social networks; Political parties

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Greece; United States--US; Europe

People: Tsipras, Alexis

Company / organization: Name: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; NAICS: 523150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/10/world/europe/greece-stefanos-kasselakis-syriza.html

Title: A Former Goldman Sachs Trader Reorders Greek Politics:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2888522824

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/former-goldman-sachs-trader-reorders-greek/docview/2888522824/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Life Bends Their Way: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-bends-their-way/docview/2879660119/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The new Netflix series is about a famous athlete and his famous family. But it's also a love story told through fashion.
Netflix has a new most popular show. "Beckham," which was released Oct. 4, is a splashy four-part documentary series about one of the most famous footballers of all time.
In the series, David Beckham now 48, charts his journey from working-class obscurity in south London to a young star at Manchester United, captain of the England squad and half of one of the biggest celebrity couples in contemporary pop culture. His wife of 24 years, Victoria Beckham -- once known as Posh Spice -- supports him from the sidelines. Viewers are treated to interviews with his tight-knit family and a constellation of teammates, celebrity friends and even some of the paparazzi who built careers on chasing the Beckhams' every move.
The doc takes us from the 1990s and the duo's matching leather catsuits through their flamboyant purple wedding outfits, his varied hairstyles as he moves to clubs like Real Madrid and LA Galaxy and her hair extensions and the microshorts that defined her WAG era through to complimentary cashmere and denim looks of the present day.
Vanessa Friedman There are many reasons to watch the Netflix Beckham documentary, but the sheer joy of going down that turn-of-the-millennium fashion hole has got to be one. It was like a mini history lesson in style (and style faux pas).
Guy Trebay It was a millennium fashion hole for sure -- their purple wedding suits, for example. But I found it way more enjoyable as a snapshot of class. The period mostly covered in the first two episodes was an open time of flouting the class divide.
Elizabeth Paton Their engagement in 1998 could have been a royal one, there was so much delirium about it. It is hard to overestimate how obsessed the world -- but particularly the British public -- were with their his-and-hers fashion efforts. The double denim looks. Matching black leather catsuits from Gucci (at a Versace party). The fact her hair was shorter than his.
G.T. Bullingdon boys didn't wear Mohawks.
Stella Bugbee His hair was an important subplot in this series -- the many bleach jobs and half-ponytails dovetail with the changes in his career. The filmmakers seem to implicate his shaved his head as the catalyst for the rift that would send him packing from Manchester United. His buzz cut spawned a craze for young fans who shaved their heads to look like him. He appears to have enjoyed that relationship with his fans and used his hair as a tool for hype.
V.F. Sometimes his hair was apparently styled by Victoria! Even just after she gave birth, when he had to face the press, he asked her to fix his hair first. I was struck by how much she seemed to be shaping his image behind the scenes, but I appreciate a man who is willing to admit to his vanity. To pick up the wedding thread: Royal is the right word, Lizzie. Down to the matching purple outfits -- which they laugh about now.
E.P. Soccer is a macho arena. And here is David Beckham, wearing a purple suit, or being photographed wearing a sarong. That was genuinely groundbreaking for a celebrity like him in 1998.
G.T. The sarong was important -- and I return to class here -- because lads and lager louts were not wearing skirts.
V.F. The sarong speaks to his -- and her -- ambition for careers beyond the original game of football and pop music. Victoria always understood image creation. It's also telling that the first public sign of their relationship was he gave her a Cartier watch to match his own. In some ways, this is a love story told in clothes.
G.T. They are low key in the doc -- his wool pullover, her jeans and tee.
E.P. It's interesting to note the evolution from them wearing identical outfits to their gently complementary looks now. Their tendency to twin hasn't gone away. Just matured.
V.F. The designer list from her WAG years was very flashy: Dolce & Gabbana, Roberto Cavalli, Antonio Berardi.
S.B. What she wore wasn't a big part of this series, which seems like a deliberate choice -- Vanessa pointed out that they don't even mention her career as a serious designer. Obviously it's a show that forefronts him, but it's still a miss.
V.F. Victoria seems to be positioning herself in the background, as the less showy person. We don't see her closet, but we get a glimpse of David's, which is extraordinary.
S.B. His meticulous closet! The documentary doesn't care about what's in it as much as the way it shows his O.C.D. tendencies -- which they hint at in other parts of the filming, too -- the compulsive neatness in the kitchen, for example.
G.T. The most human part of him, the least managed -- or manageable -- is the O.C.D. There's a moment where he adjusts a clothes hanger by a millimeter.
V.F. I was struck by his attention to detail for the Miami club -- picking the pink, having a pink net, picking the team's suits. He is still very attuned to image. In the documentary, you realize how much he changed the game when it comes to footballers and brands. Messi (the Messi store), Neymar and L.V. -- Beckham really opened up those possibilities. Now he seems to be actively managing his own transition to owner.
E.P. I don't know how it's been received in the U.S., but in the U.K., people are feeling very nostalgic and fuzzy toward the couple, if probably slightly guilty about the hideous way in which celebrities in the 1990s and 2010s were treated. It's a master class in keeping your personal brand positive.
Elizabeth Paton, Vanessa Friedman, Guy Trebay and Stella Bugbee contributed reporting.
Elizabeth Paton, Vanessa Friedman, Guy Trebay and Stella Bugbee contributed reporting.
Photograph Victoria and David Beckham: a love story told through clothes. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page ST9.

Subject: Weddings; Celebrities; Fashion designers; Hairstyles

People: Beckham, David

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/15/fashion/beckham-netflix-documentary-style.html

Title: Life Bends Their Way:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 22, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879660119

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-bends-their-way/docview/2879660119/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-2 2

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Montreal Key Stops: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/montreal-key-stops/docview/2879489928/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Key
Stops
Candide is a restaurant focused on Québécois ingredients and built in the rectory of a former church in the Petite-Bourgogne neighborhood.
Kondiaronk Belvedere, a mountaintop lookout at Parc du Mont-Royal, offers panoramic views of Montreal and the St. Lawrence River.
Bota Bota is a spa near the Old Port that features saunas, hot tubs, cold plunges and relaxation areas aboard a now-docked former ferry and in an adjacent garden.
Where
to Eat
Aigle Noir is an inclusive and friendly L.G.B.T.Q. bar in the Gay Village neighborhood.
Complexe Sky, one of Canada's largest L.G.B.T.Q. nightclubs, has dancing, drinks and rooftop Gay Village views.
SoLIT Café offers delicious breakfasts and lunches.
Snowdon Deli is a favorite for smoked meat, one of Montreal's most prized delicacies.
Dispatch Coffee serves delicious brews in a spare concrete space overlooking Boulevard St.-Laurent.
Le Butterblume is a cozy Mile End restaurant that focusies on fresh produce.
HELM is a microbrewery that pours a variety of excellent beers in a welcoming, slate-and-wood space in Mile End.
Ping Pong Club is a comfortable Mile End bar that offers food, music, cocktails and, yes, table tennis.
Le Trou is a small cafe in Griffintown serving oven-fresh Montreal-style bagels.
Where
to Stay
Fairmont the Queen Elizabeth is a 950-room downtown stalwart with rooms furnished in a mod-flavored style, including a very pink Barbie Dream Suite (with a disco ball). Visitors taking Amtrak's Adirondack service from New York may appreciate the hotel's location next to the station. Rooms from 420 Canadian dollars, or about $ 305.
Hôtel Le Germain, in a refurbished 1960s office tower, has large, quiet rooms with bentwood tables, exposed concrete, peekaboo showers and clear acrylic bubble chairs hanging from the ceiling. Rooms from 385 dollars.
Le Cartier Bed and Breakfast is a tiny gem with homey rooms and a gorgeous back garden in the Gay Village. In the shoulder season, rooms from 120 dollars.
Short-term rental options are abundant, particularly in the Mile End neighborhood, where hotel options are limited.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C9.

Subject: Neighborhoods

Location: Montreal Quebec Canada; Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/16/travel/21hours-montreal-box.html

Title: Montreal Key Stops:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 21, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879489928

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/montreal-key-stops/docview/2879489928/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Making Workers, and Plants, Happy: [Style Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-workers-plants-happy/docview/2873868543/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Felipe Gallegos used to work in fashion, designing store displays for Abercrombie & Fitch and Uniqlo. Now he spends his days with plants, helping them thrive in office buildings across New York City.
On a recent morning, Mr. Gallegos and eight of his fellow plant keepers from Greenery NYC, which designs plant installations and maintains them for a range of companies, were gathered outside the Etsy headquarters in Brooklyn. As they prepared to advance on the 20,000 plants growing within the nine-floor building, they might have been mistaken for an artist collective or a large alternative band.
The Greenery crew is part of a new plant crowd -- people who worked in theater, media, fashion and the arts before deciding that they would be happier taking care of monsteras and birds of paradise for a living.
Greenery's 21 plant keepers, called horticulturists, typically make their rounds during working hours. Dressed casually, they move quietly from plant to plant. Office employees may not even notice them but for the watering cans strapped to their backpacks. The tenders often stop to tap detailed notes into their phones concerning any changes in the health of the green things in their care.
Most offices require a team of three or four tenders, who spend a few hours watering, pruning and perhaps moving plants so that they receive the appropriate amount of light and shade. The Etsy workplace, at 200,000 square feet, presents a real challenge, and the crew may stay there up to 8 hours.
At Etsy, Mr. Gallegos, 38, tended to viney pothos and birds of paradise as his colleagues fanned out across the building. Then he stepped back to assess his work.
"That's something embedded in me from doing visual merchandising," he said. "Is it looking great from all angles?"
Rebecca Bullene, the founder of Greenery NYC, said her company has been flooded with applicants lately. "They say, 'I keep seeing these plant stores. I need a lifestyle shift,"' she said. That's a big change from a decade ago, she added, when she had a hard time finding workers, and most came from a landscaping background.
For the employees at Greenery NYC, whose clients include Bank of America, Google, Cartier, Netflix, The New York Times and other companies, there is also the aesthetic challenge of choosing the right plants and flowers for a given space.
Erin Eck, the director of continuing education at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, says she has noticed a rise in interest in the garden's certificate program in horticulture. Until recently, she said, the people who went to the classes were mostly retirees. Now there's a waiting list, and the students "are looking to do this as a profession," Ms. Eck said.
Lauren Clark, who has a master's degree in history from Sarah Lawrence College, spent 12 years working as a freelance historical researcher on documentary films. She felt unsatisfied with her career but deeply content when she transformed a concrete pit behind her Brooklyn apartment into a garden. So she took a job with the North Brooklyn Parks Alliance and is now one of two gardeners in charge of McGolrick Park in Greenpoint.
"When I'm walking down the street with clippers in my belt and covered in dirt, I'm aware that I don't look like a Sarah Lawrence grad," Ms. Clark said.
It may seem like a leap to go from working on documentaries to pulling weeds, but plant care has come to be regarded as a career akin to working in design or the arts. It's telling that the writers of "Beef," the Netflix show starring Ali Wong, fashioned Ms. Wong's character as the owner of an upscale plant shop, KoyoHaus.
The hipification of the plant business fits in with related movements in fashion, cuisine and design that came along around the turn of the century: High-end fashion designers drew inspiration from Carhartt and other workwear brands that had long made clothes for laborers; chefs assembled seasonal menus of simple fare at farm-to-table establishments with cracked wooden tables; and interior designers moved away from anything rococo to a refined version of Grandmother's house in the woods.
Plants were a natural candidate to be remade by the mania for rustic chic. Macramé hangers and Bzippy planters started appearing on Pinterest mood boards; tiny potted succulents decorated office desks and apartment windows. With the emergence of biophilic design, which brings natural elements to homes and offices to promote a sense of well-being, lush plant displays became essential to Silicon Valley start-ups and established companies alike.
Taylor Johnston, who runs a nursery in Rhode Island, Issima, and a women's workwear brand, Gamine, can recall the days before plants became must-have accessories and the people who took care of them received little respect.
Despite having a degree in horticultural design, Ms. Johnston had few opportunities and little social status when she started out, she said. She worked at flower farms and made ends meet in residential landscape design. "People truly called me 'the help,"' Ms. Johnston said, recalling an encounter with a snobbish homeowner.
In 2008, the fashion retailer Anthropologie started a garden and home brand, Terrain. Hilton Carter, who was then a fledgling filmmaker, remembered visiting the flagship store and cafe in Glen Mills, Pa., and being "hit over the head," as he put it, by the beauty of the tropical plants suspended like chandeliers.
He went on to become a plantfluencer on Instagram and the author of several books on plant-centered home design. He says he has noticed a change in the status of houseplants since he entered the field. "There wasn't a lot of, 'Let's treat plants like art,"' he said. "Now you'll see that."
In 2012 came the Sill, a New York store with the motto "Plants Make People Happy." Its founder, Eliza Blank, set out to not only sell chicly potted houseplants to nature-starved urbanites but to build a whole mood around plants. "It felt like this overlooked category that had all the makings of a beautiful brand," Ms. Blank said. Soon her company was installing thousands of plants in offices across the city, in luxuriant displays.
Other upscale boutiques that have sprung to life include Cactus Store, Folia Collective, Homecoming, Sprout Home, Tula House and Greenery Unlimited, the retail outlet of Greenery NYC. Many of them double as cafes. They also sell ceramics made by artists, along with the latest issue of Apartamento magazine. The sales staffs typically have the modern plant-keeper look -- jumpsuits in the style of Ilana Kohn and cotton work aprons, rounded out with Birkenstocks or beat-up sneakers.
Nick Cutsumpas adopted the name Farmer Nick after he quit his six-figure sales job at a Manhattan tech start-up to become a full-time gardener. "It was such a refreshing escape from my corporate laptop world," he said. Now he has clients in New York and Los Angeles for his business as a "plant coach," a term he invented for himself.
"I wanted to be the one digging the holes and carrying the soil up a four-story walk-up," Mr. Cutsumpas said. "Those were the things I reveled in."
Ms. Bullene, of Greenery NYC, worked for nearly a decade in book publishing before taking a job as an in-house editor at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, where she learned horticultural design and began consulting for residential and corporate clients.
Ms. Bullene said that many of Greenery's 38 employees, including the 21 horticulturists who go into office buildings around the city, have backgrounds in media, fashion and related fields.
"Most of our staff is into music and art," she said. "There's a cultural acceptance of plants as being part of design."
On a recent morning at the company's work space in the Greenpoint neighborhood of Brooklyn, dozens of macho ferns were lined up on the pavement, destined for the Google building in Manhattan. Nearby, Hallie Goldberg cared for a cluster of office-bound plants, including monsteras, with leaves dappled with holes like a Swiss cheese.
Ms. Goldberg, 28, worked as a stage hand and in retail jobs after studying theater in college. On this day, she was dressed in Levi's bib overalls (the front pocket was just right for holding a pruning tool) as she used a rag doused with two parts water and one part alcohol to wipe a rust fungus from the leaves.
"I had no idea this was a career before I started here," Ms. Goldberg said. She added that she loved the work, saying, "It completely activates this side of my brain that was activated when I was doing theater."
Another employee, Elan Nguyen, 23, a graduate of the Fashion Institute of Technology, was repotting tropical plants as Fleetwood Mac's "Rhiannon" filled the open workroom. Her black tank top revealed arm tattoos of a Chinese fan palm and a delicately drawn maidenhair fern. She hoisted a bag full of clay pebbles, pouring some into a ceramic pot. Then she muscled a plant out of a plastic pot and into the ceramic planter.
"I'm always moving, instead of sitting rotting away at a desk," said Ms. Nguyen, who worked briefly for a clothing brand before tending to plants. "This is like a workout."
Since plant care became a fashionable career, Ms. Bullene says, she has had to change her recruitment strategy: Instead of persuading potential candidates that it's an amazing job, she tries to scare them off by emphasizing that the work requires serious manual labor.
You may have one hour to unload 650 plants off a truck in a rainstorm, she tells prospective employees. You may have to lug a 60-pound bag of soil up 10 flights of stairs in an office building, because the freight elevator is broken.
"People have this Pollyanna view of working with plants," Ms. Bullene said. "They come to us because they think it's going to be chill." She laughed. "I don't know any job in New York City that's chill."
Photograph Above, Greenery NYC designs and maintains plant installations for companies in New York City. Top left, a team member tending to a viney wall at a Bank of America office. Left, some of Greenery NYC's 21 horticulturists, who have backgrounds in theater, fashion and other creative fields. Right, from top, the company's store in Brooklyn; Hallie Goldberg assessing the health of a philodendron. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AHMED GABER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Design; Careers; Flowers & plants; Theater; Horticulture; Emotions; Fashion designers; Employees; Farms

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Employees

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282; Name: Brooklyn Botanic Garden; NAICS: 712130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/07/style/plants-jobs-creative-dcareer.html

Title: Making Workers, and Plants, Happy:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 8, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2873868543

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-workers-plants-happy/docview/2873868543/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Human Resources, for Plants

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/human-resources-plants/docview/2873800653/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Felipe Gallegos used to work in fashion, designing store displays for Abercrombie & Fitch and Uniqlo. Now he spends his days with plants, helping them thrive in office buildings across New York City.
On a recent morning, Gallegos and eight of his fellow plant keepers from Greenery NYC, which designs plant installations and maintains them for a variety of companies, were gathered outside the Etsy headquarters in Brooklyn. As they prepared to advance on the 20,000 plants growing within the nine-floor building, they might have been mistaken for members of an artist collective or a large alternative band.
The Greenery crew is part of a new plant crowd — people who worked in theater, media, fashion and the arts before deciding they would be happier taking care of monsteras and birds of paradise for a living.
Greenery’s 21 plant keepers, called horticulturists, typically make their rounds during working hours. Dressed casually, they move quietly from plant to plant. Office employees may not even notice them but for the watering cans strapped to their backpacks. The tenders often stop to tap detailed notes into their phones concerning any changes in the health of the green things in their care.
Most offices require a team of three or four tenders, who spend a few hours watering, pruning and perhaps moving plants so that they receive the appropriate amount of light and shade. The Etsy workplace, at 200,000 square feet, presents a real challenge, and the crew may stay there up to eight hours.
At Etsy, Gallegos, 38, tended to viney pothos and birds of paradise as his colleagues fanned out across the building. Then he stepped back to assess his work.
“That’s something embedded in me from doing visual merchandising,” he said. “Is it looking great from all angles?”
Rebecca Bullene, the founder of Greenery NYC, said her company had been flooded with applicants lately. “They say: ‘I keep seeing these plant stores. I need a lifestyle shift,’” she said. That’s a big change from a decade ago, she added, when she had a hard time finding workers and most came from a landscaping background.
For the employees at Greenery NYC, whose clients include Bank of America, Google, Cartier, Netflix, The New York Times and other companies, there is also the aesthetic challenge of choosing the right plants and flowers for a given space.
Erin Eck, the director of continuing education at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, said she had noticed a rise in interest in the garden’s certificate program in horticulture. Until recently, she said, the people who went to the classes were mostly retirees. Now there’s a waiting list, and the students “are looking to do this as a profession,” Eck said.
Lauren Clark, who has a master’s degree in history from Sarah Lawrence College, spent 12 years working as a freelance historical researcher on documentary films. She felt unsatisfied with her career but deeply content when she transformed a concrete pit behind her Brooklyn apartment into a garden. So she took a job with the North Brooklyn Parks Alliance and is now one of two gardeners in charge of McGolrick Park in Greenpoint.
“When I’m walking down the street with clippers in my belt and covered in dirt, I’m aware that I don’t look like a Sarah Lawrence grad,” Clark said.
It may seem like a leap to go from working on documentaries to pulling weeds, but plant care has come to be regarded as a career akin to working in design or the arts. It’s telling that the writers of “Beef,” the Netflix show starring Ali Wong, fashioned Wong’s character as the owner of an upscale plant shop, KoyoHaus.
The hipification of the plant business fits in with related movements in fashion, cuisine and design that came along around the turn of the century: High-end fashion designers drew inspiration from Carhartt and other workwear brands that had long made clothes for laborers; chefs assembled seasonal menus of simple fare at farm-to-table establishments with cracked wooden tables; and interior designers moved away from anything rococo to a refined version of Grandmother’s house in the woods.
Plants were a natural candidate to be remade by the mania for rustic chic. Macrame hangers and Bzippy planters started appearing on Pinterest mood boards; tiny potted succulents decorated office desks and apartment windows. With the emergence of biophilic design, which brings natural elements to homes and offices to promote a sense of well-being, lush plant displays became essential to Silicon Valley startups and established companies alike.
Taylor Johnston, who runs a nursery in Rhode Island, Issima, and a women’s workwear brand, Gamine, can recall the days before plants became must-have accessories and the people who took care of them received little respect.
Despite having a degree in horticultural design, Johnston had few opportunities and little social status when she started out, she said. She worked at flower farms and, during the 2008 recession, made ends meet in residential landscape design. “People truly called me ‘the help,’” Johnston said, recalling an encounter with a snobbish homeowner.
In 2008, fashion retailer Anthropologie started a garden and home brand, Terrain. Hilton Carter, who was then a fledgling filmmaker, remembered visiting the flagship store and cafe in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania, and being “hit over the head,” as he put it, by the beauty of the tropical plants suspended like chandeliers.
He went on to become a plantfluencer on Instagram and the author of several books on plant-centered home design. He said he had noticed a change in the status of houseplants since he entered the field. “There wasn’t a lot of, ‘Let’s treat plants like art,’” he said. “Now you’ll see that.”
In 2012 came the Sill, a New York store with the motto “Plants Make People Happy.” Its founder, Eliza Blank, set out not only to sell chicly potted houseplants to nature-starved urbanites but also to build a whole mood around plants. “It felt like this overlooked category that had all the makings of a beautiful brand,” Blank said. Soon her company was installing thousands of plants in offices across the city, in luxuriant displays.
Other upscale boutiques that have sprung to life include Cactus Store, Folia Collective, Homecoming, Sprout Home, Tula House and Greenery Unlimited, the retail outlet of Greenery NYC. Many of them double as cafes. They also sell ceramics made by artists, along with the latest issue of Apartamento magazine. The sales staff members typically have the modern plant-keeper look — jumpsuits in the style of Ilana Kohn and cotton work aprons, rounded out with Birkenstocks or beat-up sneakers.
Nick Cutsumpas adopted the name Farmer Nick after he quit his six-figure sales job at a Manhattan tech startup to become a full-time gardener. “It was such a refreshing escape from my corporate laptop world,” he said. Now he has clients in New York and Los Angeles for his business as a “plant coach,” a term he invented for himself.
“I wanted to be the one digging the holes and carrying the soil up a four-story walk-up,” Cutsumpas said. “Those were the things I reveled in.”
Bullene, of Greenery NYC, worked for nearly a decade in book publishing before taking a job as an in-house editor at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, where she learned horticultural design and began consulting for residential and corporate clients.
Bullene said that many of Greenery’s 38 employees, including the 21 horticulturists who go into office buildings around the city, had backgrounds in media, fashion and related fields.
“Most of our staff is into music and art,” she said. “There’s a cultural acceptance of plants as being part of design.”
On a recent morning at the company’s workspace in the Greenpoint neighborhood, dozens of macho ferns were lined up on the pavement, destined for the Google building in Manhattan. Nearby, Hallie Goldberg cared for a cluster of office-bound plants, including monsteras, with leaves dappled with holes like a Swiss cheese.
Goldberg, 28, worked as a stagehand and in retail after studying theater in college. On this day, she was dressed in Levi’s bib overalls (the front pocket was just right for holding a pruning tool) as she used a rag doused with 2 parts water and 1 part alcohol to wipe a rust fungus from the leaves.
“I had no idea this was a career before I started here,” Goldberg said. She added that she loved the work, saying, “It completely activates this side of my brain that was activated when I was doing theater.”
Another employee, Elan Nguyen, 23, a graduate of the Fashion Institute of Technology, was repotting tropical plants as Fleetwood Mac’s “Rhiannon” filled the open workroom. Her black tank top revealed arm tattoos of a Chinese fan palm and a delicately drawn maidenhair fern. She hoisted a bag full of clay pebbles, pouring some into a ceramic pot. Then she muscled a plant out of a plastic pot and into the ceramic planter.
“I’m always moving, instead of sitting rotting away at a desk,” said Nguyen, who worked briefly for a clothing brand before tending to plants. “This is like a workout.”
Since plant care became a fashionable career, Bullene said, she has had to change her recruitment strategy: Instead of convincing potential candidates that it’s an amazing job, she tries to scare them off by emphasizing that the work requires serious manual labor.
You may have one hour to unload 650 plants from a truck in a rainstorm, she tells prospective employees. You may have to lug a 60-pound bag of soil up 10 flights of stairs in an office building, because the freight elevator is broken.
“People have this Pollyanna view of working with plants,” Bullene said. “They come to us because they think it’s going to be chill.” She laughed. “I don’t know any job in New York City that’s chill.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Careers; Flowers & plants; Fashion designers; Employees; Farms; Design; Theater; Horticulture

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Employees

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Bank of America Corp; NAICS: 522110, 551111; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282; Name: Brooklyn Botanic Garden; NAICS: 712130

Identifier / keyword: Movies; Agriculture And Farming; Carter, Hilton (Author); Issima (Little Compton, Ri, Retailer); Book Trade And Publishing; Draper, Dorothy; Glen Mills (Pa); Etsy Inc; Rhode Island; Documentary Films And Programs; Bank Of America Corporation; Netflix Inc; Restaurants; New York City; Ceramics And Pottery; Brooklyn Botanic Garden; Kurutz, Steven; Culture (Arts); Hiring And Promotion; Abercrombie & Fitch Co; Flowers And Plants; Google Inc; Exercise; Instagram Inc; Shopping And Retail; Finances; Brooklyn (Nyc); Gardens And Gardening; Local Food; Sarah Lawrence College; Pennsylvania; Greenpoint (Brooklyn, Ny); Los Angeles (Calif); E Commerce; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Johnston, Taylor (1982 ); Pinterest; Workplace Environment; Fleetwood Mac; Education (K 12); Lifestyle; Carhartt Inc; Fashion Institute Of Technology; Real Estate (Commercial); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Uniqlo; Sill (Manhattan, Ny, Retailer); Human Resources; Anthropologie; Colleges And Universities; Manhattan (Nyc); Start Ups; New York Times; Handicrafts; Books And Literature; Birkenstock Footprint Sandals; Parks And Other Recreation Areas

Title: Human Resources, for Plants

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 7, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-07T15:10:18Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2873800653

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/human-resources-plants/docview/2873800653/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Debut: 21 Questions for a Creative Director: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/debut-21-questions-creative-director/docview/2869428847/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ahead of his first show at Milan Fashion Week, Sabato De Sarno talks family, tattoos and what he sings in the shower.
Last January, two months after Alessandro Michele shocked the fashion world by announcing he was leaving Gucci, a brand he had transformed into a trendsetter with $ 10 billion in revenue in 2022, the company named his successor, and that too shocked the fashion world. Who was this man, Sabato De Sarno, who would be stepping into Mr. Michele's fur-lined, logo-ed Gucci slides?
Little is known beyond basic biographical facts: Mr. De Sarno started his career at Prada before moving to Dolce & Gabbana and then Valentino, where he spent almost 14 years, ultimately becoming the fashion director in charge of men's and women's ready-to-wear.
Which is why, when I had the chance to sit down with Mr. De Sarno before his first Gucci show, I seized the moment to play 21 questions. Here is what I learned, in edited form, below.
What is your first memory?
I was about 7, in the small village I come from in the countryside, close to Naples. I was on a Vespa with my grandfather, just riding around, talking. He died 10 years ago, and we were very close. I have his name. When the announcement came out about Gucci, it made me very emotional because my father said, "I know Sabato would be very proud to read his name in the magazines."
What is your favorite food?
Eggplant Parmesan from my mother. She is the best cook in the world. She uses it to convince me to visit her in Como, where they live now. She says, "If you come home, I can make it for you." And always, she wins. I'm a terrible cook.
What else are you bad at?
I really like to drive, but people say I am a terrible driver. In Rome, I get around on city bikes.
What's your favorite ice cream flavor?
Stracciatella.
What is the first thing you do in the morning?
I have a dachshund named Luce, and she loves to sleep close to my feet. When I wake up, she just comes up, and we spend two or three minutes cuddling.
Do you sing in the shower?
Yes, pop music. This morning I was singing a song by Romy from the xx.
How did you celebrate your last birthday?
I just had my 40th birthday. It was at a nightclub. I love dance clubs. It was at the end of Valentino, the beginning of Gucci, and I decided to get together my colleagues, my family and my friends.
Relationship status?
I got married five years ago. My husband is a lawyer in Brussels at the European Union. We see each other on weekends. It works very well because when we stay together, we really have quality time: just me and him and our dog. We don't fight very often because if we fight, we need to make a peace before leaving.
What piece of clothing have you had the longest?
A dark navy worker's jacket I bought on Portobello Road when I was 19. It was the first moment I bought something as a piece of my wardrobe. I still wear it.
Do you have a uniform?
White sneakers from the brand I am working on, or Converse. Black Levi's and a black T-shirt in the summer and black sweater in the winter.
Wait ... isn't that the uniform of Pierpaolo Piccioli, your former boss at Valentino?
It's the same as Pierpaolo, but I did it before him.
What do you buy?
I just bought a lot of pieces of Raf Simons because it's his last collection and I love his shapes and his way to do men's wear. [Mr. Simons closed his namesake label at the end of 2022.] But then I just wear it for one hour or two in the house and put it away because I don't like to go out like that. It's strange, I know.
I also have a large collection of coats. I have about 200. The first one I bought was a prototype when I worked at Miu Miu. It looks like a coat, except it has no pockets.
Do you have any tattoos?
Four. On my right forearm, an Ellsworth Kelly flower, because I love Ellsworth Kelly. On my left wrist, a star, which was the first one my mother allowed me to get, and the number 3, which I got with my two good friends and they also have. Then higher up on that arm, "Ancora," which I just got.
It means again. It's a word I use a lot. Not "again" as in the past, but "again" as when you enjoy something and you want more. It is the name of my first collection for Gucci.
Who was the first person you told when you got the Gucci job?
My husband. It was a very emotional moment. We were crying. He said, "I knew that it would happen." I could hardly believe it. After I put my signature on the contract, I slept with it because I dream a lot, and sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I say, "Was it real or not?" But with my hand on the paper, I'd know it was real.
What has surprised you about Gucci so far?
The hugeness of the brand. OK, from outside you see that, but you don't really feel it until you have meetings with every single team around the world. I'm very open, and I don't have any system about meeting with my team. I'm Sabato, you just come in the door.
But I remember the first week I was at Gucci was strange because no one talked to me. They all wanted to make appointments. I finally just told everyone: "OK, I know I'm the creative director, but I was in your role just two weeks before. You don't have to wait for a meeting."
What is going to surprise people about your Gucci?
I think the first thing is I'm more real. I don't want to build another world. I don't like sets. I like when I see people in the street with my clothes. In fact, the first show is going to be in the street. Also, we have a new brand color: red. I love it.
Do you have a personal motto?
Avanti. Go ahead.
What's your favorite form of exercise?
I'm not really a sporty person. When I decide to start a sport, I go and buy all the stuff to make a nice look. I decided to swim, for example, because I started to think my shoulders were becoming too hunchy, so I bought the swimsuit, the nose plugs, the ear plugs, the towels. But then after three lessons ... that's it.
What is your favorite book?
It depends on the moment. I like Elena Ferrante because of the way she describes my city, Naples. I am reading a book by James Baldwin, "Giovanni's Room." And I read the Obama biographies -- Michelle and Barack -- at the same time. He reminds me of my husband.
What did your husband give you for your birthday?
A Cartier Love bracelet. I don't really like to wear jewelry, but I like to wear this.
What is the best gift you have ever given?
I bought a house for my parents in Como, where they live now. Honestly, I'm so proud about that. They are all coming to the show. My family -- I have two younger brothers and two nephews -- represents to me the place where I feel safe and I can be myself.
Photograph Sabato De Sarno, who is stepping into his new role as the creative director of Gucci, succeeding Alessandro Michele. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERIA CHERCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Tattoos; Birthdays

People: Michele, Alessandro

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/style/sabato-de-sarno-gucci.html

Title: A Debut: 21 Questions for a Creative Director:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 28, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869428847

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/debut-21-questions-creative-director/docview/2869428847/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This Land Is Ralph Lauren's: [Style Desk]

Author: Testa, Jessica

Publication info: Testa, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-land-is-ralph-laurens/docview/2864446784/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The clothes are secondary. Almost everyone acknowledges this, including Ralph Lauren himself, who has long been vocal about not considering himself a fashion designer.
"I never liked fashion," he told The New York Times in 2021. "I like things that get better with age."
Mr. Lauren's world building is the thing that has kept him in business for 56 years -- his advertisements that can be mistaken for movie stills; his stores disguised as country estates; his restaurants that make you feel as if you're at an equestrian club, even if you've never been within 10 feet of an equestrian club.
But how does Ralph Lauren build these worlds? It's a question being pursued by several young American fashion founders, desperate to capture this formula (not to mention the revenue, $ 6.2 billion in the 2022 fiscal year, according to the company) and imbue their so-called lifestyle brands with nostalgia.
There's Aimé Leon Dore, whose founder believes his customers are "buying into a world" when they purchase a single men's wear garment, and who writes an annual thank-you letter to Mr. Lauren. There's LoveShackFancy, a brand whose ditsy floral-printed universe is rapidly expanding -- fragrances, suitcases, bedsheets, pool floats -- and whose founder has transformed her stores into ultra-femme, Victorian-meets-Versailles parlors, filled with vintage furniture and family photos.
For these brands, and many others, here is one theory on the Ralph Lauren formula: It's about combining familiarity and desire.
Mr. Lauren's latest world, built in the Brooklyn Navy Yard for his women's spring 2024 fashion show on Friday, emulated one of his homes -- a ranch in Colorado with log-lined walls and rock-lined fireplaces, with Native American blankets slung over the leather furniture and guest teepees on the property.
He has done this before. Last year, Mr. Lauren built a replica of his living room at his Fifth Avenue residence at the Museum of Modern Art, where models he has worked with since the 1990s, like Tyson Beckford (familiarity), made smoldering, glittering eye contact with the show's attendees (desire).
The Brooklyn barn version of this Old West myth, constructed for this fashion show, had familiarity: faux-worn wooden framework and intentionally mismatched white chairs, a style known to anyone who has seen even five minutes of HGTV programming.
And it had desire: The svelte bodies atop those chairs belonged to Julianne Moore, Jennifer Lopez, Diane Keaton and Amanda Seyfried, seated shoulder to shoulder like the world's most enviable group of girlfriends (or, as the internet might say, a dream blunt rotation). V.I.P. guests wore Ralph Lauren clothing in line with the upscale-saloon theme; there were cowboy hats and pinstripe suits and fringed dresses and big-buckle belts and bolo ties.
And it had that winning amalgamation of familiarity and desire: At the end of the show, Mr. Lauren emerged in a just-running-errands-on-a-Saturday outfit -- olive button-down shirt, sleeves slightly rolled up, tucked into beige cargo pants -- and waved to the crowd. (Familiarity.) At that very moment, the barn door behind him opened, revealing a lavish dining room: candlelit tables stretching beneath glass chandeliers, wineglasses waiting to be filled, filet mignon on the menu made from cattle that once lived on the Colorado ranch. (Desire.)
"He's capturing this mystical Americana moment that maybe didn't even really exist, but he knows what it feels like to want it," said the actress Keri Russell, dressed in a black leather prairie skirt and white shirt, a sequined Western bow tie around her neck. "Having grown up in Colorado and Arizona, in all these big-sky places, I know what he's trying to sell, and it feels so Americana to me."
For the musician Sheryl Crow, who grew up in Missouri, this is the kind of clothing she gravitates toward: "vintage, Americana, dirt road, tells a story," she said, as Bob Dylan and Cat Power played over the speakers. ("This playlist is like they Googled 'Ralph Lauren playlist,"' said the art curator Brooke Wise, appreciatively.)
In Ms. Crow's closet there are jackets and boots from Ralph Lauren that she has owned for 30 years, she said. On at least two tours she has worn studded, fringed and leather jeans from Double RL, one of the lines under the Ralph Lauren umbrella, known for applying a more rugged, pre-worn look to clothing inspired by military wear and work wear.
At a fashion week dinner a few days before the Ralph Lauren show, I had asked Stellene Volandes, the editor of Town & Country and a regular of Mr. Lauren's events, if there were elements of Ralph Lauren's world building that set him apart. Mr. Lauren, after all, has analogues in designers like Brunello Cucinelli and Giorgio Armani, who, as Ms. Volandes pointed out, "have created a very specific point of view and very specific story and have stuck to it and thrived because of it."
When it comes to Ralph Lauren, Ms. Volandes said, there is "purpose" in the way the brand invites people into his worlds, designing guest lists and seating arrangements with political precision. And many supporters, like Diane Keaton, who wore Ralph Lauren while playing the boyish Annie Hall, have been loyal for decades. Ms. Keaton was seated next to Mr. Lauren at a dinner he held in California last year.
"Fashion week can feel like a free-for-all," Ms. Volandes said.
Not at these tables, where more than 20 percent of the 250-person guest list may be considered famous, and not necessarily from TikTok.
Not at these tables, where the percentage of people wearing Cartier watches seemed higher than at any other event I was at during New York Fashion Week.
Not at these tables, where Laura Dern riffs on her appreciation for Mr. Lauren's "humility" -- speaking to The Times two years ago, he referred to himself as a "normal person, I think" -- and how "true" the clothes feel to her.
Truth is an interesting concept when discussing a brand so devoted to fantasy. But among the gathered celebrities, this idea kept coming up: "We don't go to anything fashion oriented, we're pretty boring and shy," Ms. Russell had said, referring to her partner and former co-star Matthew Rhys, also in attendance. "Maybe this sounds embarrassing or silly, but I have a really hard time doing anything that makes me feel like it's not truthful."
Still, she decided to attend this show. "I didn't feel like we would be faking it," she said. "What he represents, what he's selling, I get it." Familiarity and desire.
Photograph Inside Ralph Lauren's women's spring fashion show at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. (D1); Above, Ralph Lauren at his Brooklyn show. Above right, Christy Turlington, who closed the show in a disco-cowboy gold lamé gown. From near right, Jennifer Lopez and Diane Keaton, and Sheryl Crow and Julianne Moore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANE KIM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) This article appeared in print on page D1, D4.

Subject: Clothing; Fashion shows; Fashion designers

Location: Colorado; New York; United States--US

People: Crow, Sheryl; Keaton, Diane; Moore, Julianne; Lopez, Jennifer

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/12/style/ralph-lauren-fashion.html

Title: This Land Is Ralph Lauren's:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 14, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2864446784

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-land-is-ralph-laurens/docview/2864446784/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Early Queen Lyrics and Mercury's Grand Piano Are Hits at Auction: [Correction]

Author: Reyburn, Scott

Publication info: Reyburn, Scott. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/early-queen-lyrics-mercurys-grand-piano-are-hits/docview/2861547378/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sotheby's in London began selling about 1,400 items once owned by the charismatic lead singer, who was also a discriminating collector of woodblock prints and other Japanese art.
It started at 40,000 pounds, or about $ 50,000. Then the competition exploded, with a half-dozen bidding paddles raised in the London salesroom, followed by a flurry of bids online and by phone.
"The very piano on which 'Bohemian Rhapsody' was composed. The instrument," the auctioneer Oliver Barker intoned as the bidding paused after spiraling into seven figures. When Barker's hammer finally fell at $ 2.2 million to an online bid, the piano had taken six minutes to sell, appropriately the length of Queen's "Bohemian Rhapsody."
That sale on Wednesday of Freddie Mercury's 1973 Yamaha G2 baby grand was always going to be the high point of Sotheby's auction of about 1,400 items from the personal collection of the charismatic lead singer of the British rock band Queen.
Mercury composed many of Queen's hits at the Yamaha. It was originally estimated to sell for at least $ 2.5 million in Sotheby's 59-lot evening auction of the most desirable pieces from the collection offered by the singer's lifelong friend Mary Austin.
Less high-profile items will be sold at two further live sales this week, and in three online auctions that run through Sept. 13.
Mercury's cluttered collection of artworks and furniture, as well as handwritten lyrics, clothes, stage costumes and other personal effects, had remained at Garden Lodge, his neo-Georgian West London home, since his death in 1991. The singer bequeathed half of his royalties, together with Garden Lodge and its contents, to Austin, who has lived in the house ever since.
"It was important to me to do this in a way that I felt Freddie would have loved," Austin, 72, said in a news release about her decision to sell the collection. "There was nothing he loved more than an auction."
After a tour of highlights in New York, Los Angeles and Hong Kong, the entire collection was displayed in London for a month. More than 140,000 visitors attended the exhibition, with the line at times stretching almost a quarter-mile.
"It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see Freddie's passions. It's almost like meeting him. And it's free," Neil Leonard, 48, a Queen fan since his early teens, said last week while gazing admiringly at handwritten early draft lyrics of "Bohemian Rhapsody." The draft, thought to date from 1974, shows that Mercury toyed with titling Queen's most famous song "Mongolian Rhapsody."
In Wednesday's sale, that draft was the most valuable of six lyric manuscripts for Queen classics. Estimated to fetch at least $ 1 million, it sold for $ 1.7 million to an online bidder to rapturous applause.
Instead of the stone-faced art professionals who usually sit through Sotheby's sales, the audience of more than 400 was enthusiastic and largely unfamiliar with auction protocols. Every lot was applauded -- even when a 19th-century painting by Eugen von Blaas failed to attract initial bidding.
The auction's lots reflected Mercury's life as a musician, performer and collector. He once said he wanted to "lead the Victorian life, surrounded by exquisite clutter."
Garden Lodge was duly crammed with a decorative mishmash of 19th- and early-20th-century pictures of beautiful women; Art Nouveau, Art Deco and Orientalist furnishings; luxury knickknacks from designers like Cartier; and numerous feline-related ornaments. (Mercury owned at least 10 cats in his lifetime.)
His taste in Western art might, at times, have verged on the kitsch. But after touring Japan six times with Queen, Mercury became a discriminating collector of Japanese woodblock prints, lacquer and kimonos. About 20 percent of the lots in the Sotheby's sales are related to Japan, with one of the three online auctions entirely devoted to the subject.
One of the few museum-worthy works in Mercury's collection was a fine 19th-century colored woodblock print, "Sudden Shower Over Shin-Ohashi Bridge and Atake," by Utagawa Hiroshige. The image influenced many Western artists, including Van Gogh, who painted a version now in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. It sold for $ 368,718 against a low estimate of $ 35,000.
More often than not, the magic of the Mercury provenance pushed prices far beyond the levels for similar objects, on which Sotheby's estimates were based.
The first lot set the tone: The graffiti-covered door from the outer wall of Garden Lodge soared to $ 521,014 from a telephone bidder against a low estimate of just $ 19,000. A Fabergé gold-mounted agate vesta case, made in Moscow around 1890, later sold to an online bidder for $ 120,234, more than 10 times the estimate. Mercury's opulent Art Nouveau-style Wurlitzer jukebox from Garden Lodge's kitchen was bought for $ 512,999 by a bidder in the room.
When the distinctive silver snake bangle that Mercury wore in the music video for "Bohemian Rhapsody" soared to $ 881,717, there were gasps and whoops. The lot, bought by an online bidder, had an official minimum valuation of $ 9,000.
Among the dozen or so concert costumes offered, the jeweled crown and ermine-lined scarlet cloak that Mercury wore on Queen's 1986 "Magic" tour was a predictable favorite. It sold for $ 801,560 to Rafael Reisman, a Brazilian exhibition promoter, who raised his arms in triumph when he secured the lot.
"We were looking to put together a collection of iconic lots to use for a special immersive exhibition," said Reisman, 53, who bought four other Mercury lots at the sale. The low estimate was $ 9,000.
Overall, the sale netted $ 15.4 million against a presale low estimate of $ 6 million. The marathon event took more than four hours.
Becca Robbins, a Queen fan from Bedfordshire, had never been to an auction before but bid $ 57,000 on a rainbow-colored satin appliqué jacket that Mercury wore on Queen's "Hot Space" tour in 1982. It went on to sell for $ 256,499.
"I owned it for a nanosecond," said Robbins, 61, who was wearing a replica of the same multicolored jacket. "But I took something from the exhibition that you can't put a price on."
Photograph Draft lyrics of "Bohemian Rhapsody," above left, sold for $ 1.7 million on Wednesday in Sotheby's auction of about 1,400 items from the personal collection of Freddie Mercury. The piano, center, on which "Bohemian Rhapsody" was composed sold for $ 2.2 million. One of the few museum-worthy works was a woodblock print, "Sudden Shower Over Shin-Ohashi Bridge and Atake," by Utagawa Hiroshige. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAUREN FLEISHMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; TRISTAN FEWINGS/GETTY IMAGES FOR SOTHEBY'S; SOTHEBY'S); Freddie Mercury performing with Queen at Wembley Stadium in 1986. The jeweled crown and ermine-lined scarlet cloak he wore onstage sold for $ 801,560. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS O'REGAN, VIA SOTHEBY'S) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Art Nouveau; Piano; Auctions; Sales; Museums; Bids; Singers; Art markets

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales

Location: Japan

People: Mercury, Freddie

Company / organization: Name: Sothebys; NAICS: 459920

Title: Early Queen Lyrics and Me rcury's Grand Piano Are Hits at Auction:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 7, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2861547378

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/early-queen-lyrics-mercurys-grand-piano-are-hits/docview/2861547378/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Making It All Official With a Song and a Scroll: [Society Desk]

Author: Block, Jenny

Publication info: Block, Jenny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-all-official-with-song-scroll/docview/2860020972/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Dr. Stephen Meeneghan, a naturopathic doctor, was hesitant when he received a message on a dating app from Ryan Cassata, a transgender advocate and musician. Yet they clicked right away.
Ryan Otto Cassata had no intention of falling in love when he met Dr. Stephen Vincent Lee Meeneghan on Aug. 10, 2021 on the gay dating app Scruff.
Neither did Dr. Meeneghan, a naturopathic doctor. He thought Mr. Cassata, 29, was too young for him, but decided it couldn't hurt to talk. So he messaged him, and the next day, the two began texting.
"What he shared with me surprised and intrigued me enough to want to meet him in person," Dr. Meeneghan, 43, said, adding, "Here was this trans man that wasn't heterosexual like most trans men I know. He was a true bisexual like me. He identified as polyamorous, too."
Their first date was eight days later at Tiger Sugar in Los Angeles's Koreatown. Mr. Cassata was smitten at first sight. "I was like, this guy is so out of my league," he said.
Dr. Meeneghan had arrived around 20 minutes late, leaving Mr. Cassata to wonder if he had been stood up. "When I got there, I spotted him before he spotted me," Dr. Meeneghan said. "He was shorter and cuter than I had anticipated."
The two chatted for hours. When the tea shop closed, they continued their conversation outside a nearby Starbucks, and when it closed, they went for a walk around the Koreatown neighborhood. Mr. Cassata, who lost hearing in his left ear at 13, "Showed me the tattoo on the back of his left ear that said, "Deaf" so that I wouldn't make the mistake of walking on that side of him," Dr. Meeneghan said.
"We had our first kiss at Fifth and Kenmore -- it was electrifying," Mr. Cassata said. "I had him stand on a high curb while I stood in the street in an attempt to offset the 15 inches and 13 years between us," Dr. Meeneghan said.
They texted briefly the next day. "Then sometimes we would go a few days without texting or hearing from each other," Mr. Cassata said. "After a few weeks, that became torturous for me."
After dating for a month, they began to text every day, except when Dr. Meeneghan's girlfriend, his primary partner, was in town.
"I was starting to fall in love with him," Mr. Cassata said. "I knew because I was writing so many super, super mushy songs. I told him I was catching real feelings and needed to step away if he wasn't interested in me like that."
But Dr. Meeneghan was interested. "My connection with Ryan was so much deeper and more profound" than with his long-distance girlfriend, Dr. Meeneghan said.
Mr. Cassata, a singer and songwriter with the label Kill Rock Stars, wrote the song "Your Mind (You're Mine)" for Dr. Meeneghan in late October 2021, and the next day, Dr. Meeneghan hand-delivered a scroll to Mr. Cassata's house asking him to be his boyfriend. Dr. Meeneghan broke up with his girlfriend just a few weeks later.
In February 2022, Dr. Meeneghan asked Mr. Cassata to go on a Valentine's Day weekend getaway to Solana Beach, Calif., and said he had a surprise for him. They arrived at a tattoo shop. "He went first and told me that his tattoo was a surprise," Mr. Cassata said. "Marry Me," it read. Once Mr. Cassata saw it, "before he could even verbally ask, I said, yes," Mr. Cassata said. Dr. Meeneghan then presented Mr. Cassata with a Cartier Love ring.
"We spent the whole next day at the clothing-optional Black's Beach, naked except for that ring," Dr. Meeneghan said.
The two moved in together into a log cabin home on March 19, 2022 in Los Angeles, where they now live.
Mr. Cassata, who is from Bay Shore, N.Y., has a master's degree in social transformation from the Pacific School of Religion. He has been a transgender activist since he was 13. "This year, I have spoken and performed at the U.S. Capitol and Harvard University," Mr. Cassata said. He also visited the White House to sing for and speak to Admiral Rachel Levine, "the highest-ranking trans person in government, about trans health care legislation," Mr. Cassata said.
Dr. Meeneghan, who grew up outside of Seattle, is an acupuncturist and a naturopathic doctor at Modrn Med of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and is the president of the California Naturopathic Doctors Association. He has a bachelor's degree in comparative religion and a bachelor's of science degree in life sciences, both from the Evergreen State College, and a master's degree in the science of traditional East Asian medicine and a doctorate in naturopathic medicine, both from National University of Natural Medicine.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
The two were married Aug. 18 by Nan Cameron, a friend of Mr. Cassata previously ordained by the Universal Life Church, at Calamigos Ranch in Malibu, Calif., before 150 guests. They wore ivory suits made by Indochino for the ceremony and changed into black tuxedos by Sharpe Suiting for the reception.
At the reception, Mr. Cassata danced with his father to "Butterfly Kisses," by Bob Carlisle, "which was our song when I was a little kid before I transitioned," Mr. Cassata said. For the reception, Mr. Cassata wrote and performed, "The Promise," an original song and Dr. Meeneghan sang the Peter Gabriel version of "The Book of Love," by the Magnetic Fields.
Some guests learned a line dance after the rehearsal dinner for a flash mob-style performance at the reception to Queen's "I Was Born to Love You," which Dr. Meeneghan had alluded to in his vows. "To quote the patron saint of queer love, Freddie Mercury, 'I was born to love you, every single day of my life,"' he said.
Photograph Ryan Cassata, Stephen Meeneghan (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARGOT LANDEN) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Tattoos; Naturopathy; Health care policy; Personal relationships; Transgender persons

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/01/style/making-it-official-with-a-song-and-a-scroll.html

Title: Making It All Official With a Song and a Scroll:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 3, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2860020972

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-all-official-with-song-scroll/docview/2860020972/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Planting His Flag In France: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Constant Méheut

Publication info: Constant Méheut. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/planting-his-flag-france/docview/2858156255/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For years, writing about Algeria, or even acknowledging France's violent past there, was a lonely endeavor.
The novelist Gérard-Martial Princeau, who publishes under the pen name Mathieu Belezi, spent 15 years writing about the early colonial years in virtual anonymity. Those novels found only a few thousand readers -- the result, Belezi long believed, of deep-seated unease with a past that challenged France's image as a beacon of human rights. But the period's history compelled him.
His luck changed with his fourth novel, "Attaquer la terre et le soleil," or "Attacking the Earth and the Sun," which recounts the brutal, 19th-century French colonization of Algeria and was published last year. Its popularity -- the book has won prestigious prizes and sold nearly 90,000 copies -- has come as a surprise in a country that has often preferred to forget its colonial past rather than address it. That is particularly true in the case of Algeria, which the French ruled over for 132 years before being ousted by a bloody war of independence that left lasting scars.
But in a country where literary hits are a kind of Rorschach test, the popularity of his latest novel may be a sign of changing times. In recent years, France has sought to acknowledge its history in Algeria, while calls to better reckon with the country's colonial legacy have fueled a new wave of books and movies.
"This history has long been a taboo," Belezi, a soft-spoken 69-year-old, said during an interview last month in Paris. "It is my duty to ask questions, especially questions people don't want to ask. Literature can help with that, too."
The son of a factory worker who did his military service in Algeria just before the war of independence -- and always refused to talk about the experience -- Belezi said the colonization of Algeria had long puzzled him. "We went to civilize the so-called barbarians, but we were more barbaric than they were," he said. "We stole their land, we razed their mosques."
In the early 2000s, as he began reading about this history, Belezi said he discovered an unexplored "literary territory" of violence that made for ideal novelistic material.
In one of the opening scenes of the novel, Belezi describes French soldiers racing toward a remote village in the Algerian highlands as night falls. Armed with bayonets, they kill all the residents who dare to resist, "piercing their bellies, lifting them off the ground and holding them at arms' length skewered like chickens." Then they loot the houses, rape the women and let the survivors freeze to death out of the village.
"You're no angels!" a captain tells his bloodthirsty soldiers. "That's right, captain, we're no angels," they reply.
France's conquest of Algeria began in 1830 as a punitive expedition against the city of Algiers, which was then part of the Ottoman Empire, after a diplomatic dispute. But it quickly turned into a full-fledged colonization that lasted for over a century and claimed the lives of some 800,000 Algerians.
"The early days of the colonization were horrific," said Colette Zytnicki, a historian at the University Toulouse-Jean Jaurès. She pointed to the mass killings of Algerians by French soldiers -- which included asphyxiating them by smoking out caves where they took refuge -- but also to the death of many French settlers from starvation and disease.
Belezi captured this violence in three novels released between 2008 and 2015. Drawing on letters from settlers and soldiers he found in public archives, he captures the racism that underpinned colonization and the greed that led to land expropriation, but also the doubts that gnawed at settlers who fled France to escape poverty.
"In the 1840s, Algeria was like a Western," Belezi said.
But unlike the best sellers and movies about the American frontier, his novels attracted little attention beyond few enthusiastic literary critics. It is virtually impossible to find his previous books (he has written over a dozen, touching on a variety of subjects). For years, Belezi made a living from what he called "odd jobs": He sold gravestones, planted tobacco on farmlands and taught history in schools.
Belezi has rarely been invited on French television, let alone the country's beloved literary shows, even after the success of his latest book. "People are afraid of what I'll say," he said.
After he finished writing "Attacking the Earth and the Sun," which is told through the voices of a settler and a soldier, Belezi said he sent the manuscript to five publishers. All replied with polite refusals.
"I thought, 'It's over. I'm going to write for myself now. I'll never be published again,"' Belezi said, recalling how he imagined his books would be rediscovered only after his death, in the bookseller stalls lining the banks of the Seine.
Until he got a call.
"From the very first words, I was hooked," Frédéric Martin, the founder of Le Tripode, a small publishing house Belezi had turned to in despair, said about the novel. He said he told Belezi that he would not only publish it, but also reprint all his previous books.
Martin said he had been drawn to Belezi's "singular writing style," which avoids periods and is highly lyrical, but also to the history that his novels so powerfully unveil.
Critics agree. "French literature has rarely been interested in the beginnings of colonization," said Pierre Assouline, a juror of the Goncourt, France's most prestigious literary prize. "It was about time."
Frédéric Beigbeder, a best-selling French novelist, told an influential literary radio show that the novel had taught him a lot. "Nobody's ever told me about the colonization of Algeria this way," he said.
Beigbeder was alluding to crimes and suffering that have long been overlooked in favor of rosier, though distorted, views of colonization highlighting epic conquests and economic development. Starting in 2005, a new law required French schools to teach the "positive role" of colonialism. The obligation was lifted a year later after an outcry, but the unease over this painful past continued.
Most French novels that have turned to Algeria have instead focused on decolonization and the Algerian war of independence, a traumatic event which many experts say can only be properly understood if the initial violence is known.
"It's time to replace a few stereotypes with a much cruder reality," said Jacques Frémeaux, a historian at the University Paris-Sorbonne.
The success of "Attacking the Earth and the Sun" may be doing just that. After winning literary awards from Le Monde and France Inter, France's largest national newspaper and radio station, the novel climbed to the top of the best-seller lists.
Eight translations are in progress and negotiations for an English-language version are underway. A school edition with background material will be released next year.
Zytnicki said the novel's popularity coincided with a renewed interest in the history of colonization in France, as the country has debated its colonial and slave-trading past. Books, podcasts and even an exhibition on Abd el-Kader, who led Algeria's resistance to French colonization in the 1830s and '40s, have attracted attention.
Acknowledging the need to address a painful past, President Emmanuel Macron of France has initiated efforts to reckon with the crimes and suffering in colonial Algeria. He asked a committee of French and Algerian historians to draw up an inventory of archives to further the study of the period.
Belezi said he hoped he would be remembered as the writer "who did the initial work" in bringing to light that history. He had originally planned to write just three novels on the topic. Then came "Attacking the Earth and the Sun," the fourth, he said, because "it's hard to let go."
His novels have often stemmed from his belief that the legacy of colonization has been played down. Belezi pointed to Macron who, last year, described French-Algerian relations as "a love story that has its tragic side."
"My work must go on," he said.
Photograph Above, Mathieu Belezi. Left, an 1842 oil painting, "Défense Héroïque du Capitaine Lelièvre à Mazagran," by Jean-Adolphe Beaucé, depicts a battle between French troops and Arabs and Berbers resisting occupation. France is reconsidering the discourse about its colonization of Algeria. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELLIOTT VERDIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; PATRICE CARTIER, VIA NARBONNE MUSEUM OF ART AND HISTORY) (C4) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4.

Subject: Archives & records; Violence; Art galleries & museums; Writing; Colonialism; Novels; Massacres; Books; Military personnel

Location: Algeria; France

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/28/books/france-algeria-mathieu-belezi.html

Title: Planting His Flag In France:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 29, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2858156255

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/planting-his-flag-france/docview/2858156255/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Planning a Revival for a Flailing Business: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/planning-revival-flailing-business/docview/2857512286/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: John Koryl spent his first months as chief executive of the RealReal helping to clean out customers' closets. The company had recently changed its consignment policy for the luxury goods it offered, and Mr. Koryl wanted to see how people were reacting to it. So he traveled to people's homes in Orange County, Calif., Long Island and elsewhere to find out what he couldn't glean from his office.
In Mr. Koryl's telling, he's the "guy who folds things and packs the bags because that's about all the value -- other than listening -- that I add."
He brings an affable, disarming quality to his work. But his job now is exceedingly crucial: He is responsible for turning around a flailing business.
The RealReal is fueled by customers selling their expensive wares to the company; the company in turn authenticates the goods and puts them on its site or in one of its 12 retail shops, from Manhattan to Dallas and West Hollywood. When the item sells, the consignor receives a commission. (If the item doesn't sell within a year, it is either returned to the consignor or donated to charity.) The e-commerce reseller was founded over a decade ago, and not long afterward people began to ask lofty questions about whether this San Francisco start-up could save retail.
But since going public in June 2019, its stock has declined 92 percent. As the luxury resale market continues to grow, the RealReal has struggled with inventory and other issues. The company changed policies to the disgruntlement of some customers, and it has conducted two rounds of layoffs this year.
Mr. Koryl said he was focusing on better understanding the RealReal's customer -- and finding even more people willing to consign their Hermes bags and 14-karat-gold diamond necklaces. He called 2023 the RealReal's "reset year."
He sat down with The New York Times, a few days after the company reported a $ 41 million loss for the quarter through July, to discuss how he was trying to give the RealReal a new look, what it was like to follow in the footsteps of a chief executive who was the founder and the item he would immediately purchase if he saw it on the site.
This interview was condensed and edited for clarity.
You are coming after a C.E.O. who was also the founder, so that's always an adjustment for any company in any industry. I think often there's that feeling of "how do I make my mark because obviously the founder made theirs." So what's the biggest change that you've made in your first six months?
I think it's having a lot of respect for what has been done. I realized I walked into a room of a bunch of pioneers -- and female-led pioneers at that -- with a sustainability vision in mind. How often do you get that opportunity? So you have to tread very lightly. You have to have a lot of respect for what made them the company that you wanted to join.
When the RealReal was founded in 2011, the idea of consigning luxury goods without diluting the brand was a novel one for both shoppers and investors. The company's stock has taken a hit since its I.P.O. as investors seem to be finally wanting a return on investment and see a more firm timeline for reaching profitability.
What does that mean for you? And how are you trying to position the business now that its model is no longer the new idea?
I think, in many ways, the goal posts moved on the RealReal. At the I.P.O., everybody was being rewarded for endless growth. As long as the revenue was growing 30 percent or more, you were being rewarded by Wall Street. And then Covid happened. The world said, "No, no, no, we want everybody to be profitable."
Part of the reason I'm here is to turn that story around where we can actually continue to grow double digits. Definitely not at the same 35 percent to 40 percent pace of the past, but we can grow double digits and we can grow a profitable business.
How will you do that?
We've gotten out of direct buy merchandise [purchasing the merchandise outright and storing it]. We've really minimized the amount of merchandise under $ 100 that we have on the site. We've really tightened our belts in terms of the cost profile. We have to address our debt overhang.
In November, the RealReal overhauled its consignment policies, which includes no longer accepting merchandise under $ 100 as the company focuses on acquiring items that provide higher margins; limiting direct buys; and offering lower commissions for lower-priced items. What did you learn from that process?
We had a little bit of a reaction when we changed our commission structure last November. People started getting their first checks in January and February, and they weren't signing with us as much. It was because the commission changes were a little too abrupt and too much at one-time. So we're doing more of the personalized approach.
As long as we can keep that supply growing, we can keep the double-digit growth of our traditional business and we can complement it with these other businesses, we think we will meet Wall Street's new expectation that companies like this need to be profitable.
Yes, there is a lot of very worthy competitors playing at similar price points, similar categories. But has anybody done it across all the brands? And with the consistency and convenience that we have? That's the moat that we have to protect, and we have to meet his or her expectations every day. That's what we're striving to do.
A turnaround is often needed because a company has expanded too far beyond its core customer. Is that how you see what happened with the RealReal?
It's a little bit of tweaking more than pulling back. With our current capabilities and the current business model we have, we can't operate well and profitably with less than $ 100 merchandise. We also found categories that honestly we weren't very good at -- we extended into memorabilia, we extended into art and home, we extended into kids -- and we had to pare back. Honestly, they're, for the most part, gone.
The reality is, we're absolutely at our best with jewelry, watches, ready-to-wear, handbags, shoes.
When you were talking to customers, what was the biggest frustration they had about the RealReal that surprised you?
I think it's all around education of what we do and don't take. And the understanding of how we arrive at a price.
In the past, it would have been: "You've lost too many goods. I've gotten burned. What happened to this?" Or: "It's taking too long for the merchandise to get onto the site."
A lot of those have gone away for the most part. Now, it's really, "You used to take this designer, you won't anymore. Why won't you?" In a perfect world, we'd say, "OK, we will take everything." But there's an economic reality, right?
I'll give you an example. Certain brands of jeans we used to be able to sell for over $ 100. Now you just can't get the same return for them. So instead of upsetting you by us taking them and selling them for way less than you want, we're just telling you now we don't take them.
What's the plan for the RealReal to use artificial intelligence?
The first was authenticating the merchandise. The second was pricing the merchandise. Where we're spending more time now is where can we, at intake, start with a picture of a good and right there we can say, "Have we seen this good before?" "I already recognize that pattern, so now I don't have to write all the copy. I don't have to take all the measurements unless we perceive that it's been altered."
It still needs to go through authentication, but we can send it down a different lane where instead of each piece that we receive being a one-off, now all of a sudden we're starting to batch things together. We can do those kinds of things and reduce operational costs.
Dupes have become a bigger conversation in the industry this year. Before your time at the company, there was reporting about the RealReal selling inauthentic items on its platform. How you are currently guarding against that?
It's basically an arms race in many ways. How do we stay ahead of the super fakes? We hire people, we invest in technology. We partner with the brands wherever we can to figure out the best way to make sure that is an authentic good and do it in a cost effective manner. It's not just visual. It's touch, it's smell, it's you name it. We have to use those tools in our toolbox to make sure we stay ahead of the super fakes.
You know, the sneaker industry went through big fakes and obviously there's a lot of money in handbag fakes, but people aren't faking ready-to-wear as much. So we can really concentrate on the areas where people can make the most money with inauthentic goods. So that's where we spend our time and energy staying ahead of everyone.
There have also been customer complaints about goods being sold on the RealReal for a price that was not agreed upon?
What we need to do is make sure we put the right items on price approval. We only do that for certain classes of merchandise. And if it's your first time consigning, it's a lot. We always try and be as absolutely upfront as much as we possibly can and make it as clear as we possibly can.
What we need to do is make sure that we don't take that item upfront. So the best thing to do is take it into a store (the RealReal has 13 consignment locations) and have a discussion with an expert. In the absence of that, what we need to do is send that merchandise back to the consignor so that they're happy and we can sell the other goods in a win-win fashion.
Is there an item or a brand that if you found it on the RealReal you will purchase it no matter what?
I'm constantly looking at watches and shoes on our site. I'm always on the lookout for Dior or Louis Vuitton sneakers. There's always that watch that you can never find and you always look for. I like the very traditional watches, but there's a Cartier Rolex out there from the '70s that if that ever came up on the RealReal, it's just one of those things that you're like, "Ooh, I might have to have that."
You are based in Dallas and you also spend a lot of time in San Francisco. But when you visit New York City, do you have a store that you always visit?
Bergdorf. Maybe that was too easy so can I get two?
OK.
My second is Kith. I just love their handle on fashion. I also love that the brand steps out a little bit with unique collaborations. I think there used to be this staid way of "we only work this way; we're only on Fifth Avenue; we only do that." I really like this migration across where everybody's doing different things to introduce their brands to new customers. I have just a healthy respect for brands that take risks and do lots of testing, just like we do.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMIL LIPPE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU4.

Subject: Customers

Business indexing term: Subject: Customers

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/26/business/the-moat-that-we-have-to-protect-the-realreals-ceo-on-reviving-the-brand.html

Title: Planning a Revival for a Flailing Business:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

column: Corner Office

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857512286

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/planning-revival-flailing-business/docview/2857512286/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Was Overlooked Now Stands Out: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Lubow, Arthur

Publication info: Lubow, Arthur. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-was-overlooked-now-stands-out/docview/2856692184/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the exhibition "The Way Back," the photographer presents unseen outtakes from his nearly 70-year career as a chronicler of American life.
Breathtakingly fast and painstakingly slow: Before the introduction of the digital camera, a photographer worked in those parallel time frames. The click of the shutter was instantaneous, but then the film had to be developed, the contact sheets or color slides reviewed, and the selections made for printing.
Pressed for time, a working photographer typically made these decisions hurriedly. In old age, there is time for reconsideration. Bruce Davidson, who turns 90 next month, has been reviewing his archive for the last eight years. In "The Way Back," the title both of an exhibition now at the Howard Greenberg Gallery, in New York, and a more compendious book to be published this fall, he is presenting photos he overlooked, putting them on public view for the first time.
In a 2015 interview, Davidson named for me some photographers he thought had taken the art form to "a new departure point": Eugène Atget, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Robert Frank, Diane Arbus. He did not include himself. He knows he has followed trails blazed by pioneers. What makes him remarkable is the empathy that won over his subjects and the devoted persistence of his investigations.
Frank, who is probably Davidson's greatest influence, restlessly sought to portray scenes and people new to him; it is one reason he did not enjoy or succeed at the lucrative task of crafting photo essays for Life magazine. In contrast, Davidson has preferred to mine the same subject for months or years, getting so close to people that you come to feel you know them yourself.
Davidson broke into professional photography at Life. Fascinated by the camera from the time he was 10, he was encouraged by his stepfather, who advised him to apply to the Rochester Institute of Technology. From there, he went to study photography at Yale, where his photographs of the college football team garnered five pages in Life. In his 20s, he had begun his professional career.
In an early series on the circus in 1958, he took intimate photographs of Jimmy Armstrong, a clown with dwarfism. He showed Armstrong playing the trumpet in a shabby bedroom, depositing cash at a bank window, performing in makeup and costume, and eating a sandwich alone in a diner. The book "The Way Back" includes another version of the previously published trumpet picture, taken from a greater distance and a lower angle to reveal Armstrong's living quarters. It discloses more but delivers a slightly lower impact. It made me think of a jazz singer's alternate version, in which you can better discern the lyrics but lose a bit of the mood.
The risk of unlimited empathy is sentimentality, a pitfall that tripped up a youthful Davidson at times in his pictures, including those of Armstrong and another favorite subject, an elderly Parisian widow. His breakthrough came soon enough, in 1959, when he embedded himself with a Brooklyn gang of teenagers who ruled a bit of turf in pre-gentrified Park Slope. Like a sputtering match, the kids saunter, primp and canoodle for Davidson's camera, before they will ineluctably succumb -- as Davidson's wife, Emily Haas Davidson, established in a 1998 interview with a former gang member -- to addiction, despair and suicide.
One classic photograph (which surpasses anything in this collection of outtakes) portrays a beautiful young woman with remarkable eyebrows smoking a cigarette and pushing back her hair, as she looms, knowing and defiant, above three of her friends who are intertwined on a blanket in Prospect Park. (At the gallery, she can be seen, charismatic as ever, in another shot where she has joined them on the blanket.) It is a memorably poignant image that would make a nice pendant to one of the Brooklyn gang pictures in the Greenberg show -- a boy standing on a gritty street with cupped hands catching the rain.
Along with the Brooklyn gang, which is the best represented, there are also alternate takes at the gallery from two other major Davidson projects: his documentation of the civil rights struggle in the South in the '60s, including those he took while traveling with the Freedom Riders; and a two-year immersion with a large-format camera among the hard-pressed Hispanic and Black residents of East 100th Street in East Harlem. In both, he crossed the racial divide and earned the trust of his subjects.
But the two pictures in this rediscovered trove that stick with me most are from lesser known undertakings. Both feature women with big hair. In a photograph taken in the Bronx in 1963, a young Hispanic man clutches a box of what appear to be candy bars in one hand while he leads off a woman whose white headband accents a bouffant flip. Her stare at the photographer -- and therefore at the viewer of the photograph -- is what arrests you: direct, tough and savvy beyond her years.
The other portrait was taken in Yosemite National Park in 1965, part of a series Davidson made of people relaxing at a camp site. A wry rejoinder to the wilderness photographs made there a century before by Carleton Watkins, Davidson's pictures displayed how Yosemite by this time catered not so much to adventurers but to citified tourists, like a young woman with a startling beehive hairdo who sits placidly at a picnic table laden with her provisions. A big gas-guzzling car is parked beyond her. Sharp but not mocking, the Yosemite picture, like the civil rights and East 100th Street projects, was Davidson's report on what he found in America. Neither doom-saying nor starry-eyed, he was simply being observant. And honest.
Bruce Davidson: The Way Back
Through Sept. 16, Howard Greenberg Gallery, 41 East 57th St, Manhattan; 212 334-0010, howardgreenberg.com
Photograph Above, part of Bruce Davidson's series "Brooklyn Gang" (1959). Left, Jimmy Armstrong, a clown with dwarfism (1958). Below, a couple in the Bronx (1963); and a camper in Yosemite National Park (1965). (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA BRUCE DAVIDSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS, VIA HOWARD GREENBERG GALLERY, NEW YORK) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Digital cameras; Photographs; Photographers; Civil rights; Dwarfism; National parks; Art exhibits

Company / organization: Name: Yosemite National Park; NAICS: 712190

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/24/arts/design/bruce-davidson-photography.html

Title: What Was Overlooked Now Stands Out:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 25, 2023

column: Critic's Pick

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2856692184

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-was-overlooked-now-stands-out/docview/2856692184/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023 -08-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Thierry Despont, 75, Elegant Hand Behind Architectural Gems, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Williams, Alex

Publication info: Williams, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thierry-despont-75-elegant-hand-behind/docview/2854236563/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Whether helping refurbish the Statue of Liberty and the Carlyle hotel or decorating the homes of Bill Gates and Calvin Klein, he designed with a sense of heritage and place.
Thierry Despont, the worldly, erudite French architect and designer whose rich sense of history and heritage brought a refined elegance to the grand homes of industry titans like Bill Gates and Calvin Klein, as well as to the restoration of landmark projects like the Statue of Liberty, the Woolworth Building and the Ritz Paris, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 75.
His death was confirmed in a statement provided by his family. No cause was specified.
A native of Limoges, France, Mr. Despont moved to New York in 1980 and quickly rose to a position of influence in the global architecture and design world. He was an officer of the Legion of Honor, the highest French honor, and was named to the Architectural Digest AD100 2023 Hall of Fame.
His low-key demeanor belied the grandeur of his monumental projects. They included restoring the Vendôme Column in Paris and, in New York, refurbishing the Carlyle hotel, the Palm Court at the Plaza and the flagship Cartier store on Fifth Avenue. He also renovated storied hotels in London, including Claridge's, the Beaumont and the Dorchester. And he drew acclaim for his transformation of the Battery Maritime Building at the southern tip of Manhattan into the sumptuous private club Casa Cipriani.
But even in his most illustrious buildings, sheer opulence was not the point. "I like to create a small universe," he said in a 2015 interview with Vanity Fair. "From the master plan to the doorknobs, from the trees planted outside to the way people will sit and eat and dance inside, you create and control a whole microcosm."
Given the scale of his grandest projects, "macrocosm" might be a better word. He designed Mr. Gates's 66,000-square-foot lakefront house in Medina, Wash., known as Xanadu 2.0, and Mr. Klein's 8.5-acre spread in East Hampton, which sold for a reported $ 85 million two years ago.
Among his more publicized projects was his remodeling of the Herbert N. Straus House, a cavernous 30-room townhouse on East 71st Street in Manhattan, for the retail billionaire Leslie Wexner.
"Thierry designs houses that are an homage to the client," his friend Martha Stewart said in a 1999 interview with The New York Times Magazine. "He's really designing for a king."
As Mr. Despont put it in a 2016 talk at the French Institute Alliance Française in New York, "There has never, never been a great house without first a great owner."
For more than 30 years, Mr. Despont designed the interiors and exterior details for several homes belonging to his friends Millard S. Drexler, the retailing baron, and his wife, Peggy.
In a phone interview, Mr. Drexler praised Mr. Despont's timeless sensibility, which he compared to his own taste in apparel. "Like with schmattas," said Mr. Drexler, the chief executive of Alex Mill and formerly of the Gap and J. Crew, "you design things that feel special, unique and high-quality, but with a vision of never going out of style, that can be worn forever."
The important thing for Mr. Despont, Mr. Drexler added, was creating a design that celebrated the unique history and character of a property. For the couple's vineyard estate in St. Helena, Calif., Mr. Despont installed green and yellow glass windows to accentuate the golden California landscape and the leafy rows of vines.
For the Drexlers' 5.7-acre oceanfront compound in Montauk, N.Y., which formerly belonged to Andy Warhol, Mr. Despont created a rustic fishing-village charm using simple, sturdy antiques and homey touches like vintage linen slipcovers. The couple sold the compound for $ 50 million in 2015.
"The interiors he concocts for his immensely wealthy clients are a swirl of highly focused, carefully edited clutter," the architecture writer Karrie Jacobs wrote in The Los Angeles Times in 1996.
Mr. Despont's own TriBeCa pad was one that stood proudly among those of his well-heeled clients: a 10,000-square-foot townhouse with plaid-print walls in the billiard room and Art Deco curves on custom alpaca sofas.
His affable personality and Old World charm placed him in high regard in New York society; he chafed, however, at being described as a "society decorator."
A gentleman aesthete in the European tradition, Mr. Despont was an accomplished sculptor and watercolorist who displayed and sold his work in New York and Europe. He collected antique maps, stocked his bookshelves with leather-bound volumes of French history and literature, and expressed a particular appreciation for the Romanian pianist Radu Lupu's recital of Schubert's "Moments Musicaux."
"With a slight patina of age -- a dash of gray at the peak, a few laugh lines -- he cuts an impressive silhouette in a black three-piece suit," Julie V. Iovine wrote in a 1997 profile of Mr. Despont in The New York Times.
In that profile, Gillian Wilson, a former curator at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, where Mr. Despont collaborated with the building's architect, Richard Meier, on the design of multiple galleries, was quoted as calling him "disgustingly charming -- part matinee idol, part Louis XIV."
Thierry Guy Despont was born in Limoges on April 19, 1948, the eldest of four children of Guy and Francette (Breuil) Despont.
While he drew an early appreciation for the aesthetic possibilities of buildings from his father, an architect, his design sensibilities were born of his earliest memories of his grandfather's bucolic farmhouse.
"I do believe we all have inside us some memories, some images, of a house, a window, a shaded porch, of a tree that we are trying to recapture later on," he said in his Alliance Française talk. His memories of the farmhouse, he said, reminded him of a favorite line from a novel by Rainer Maria Rilke: "It is not a complete building, but broken pieces inside me; a room here, a room there, and then a piece of hallway that does not connect these two rooms."
"Each project that I do for my clients," he said, "is a piece of this dream house that I have inside of me."
He received a degree in architecture from the École Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris in 1972 before moving to the United States, where in 1975 he earned a master's degree in urban planning from Harvard University.
Mr. Despont began his career at the architecture firm Llewelyn Davies, working on a redesign of the city center in Tehran for the shah of Iran.
Before long, he set his sights on the American capital of architecture, New York. "New York has this sense of freedom and possibility," he said in a 2017 interview with The New Yorker. "This mix of culture and race from all over the world. It's wonderful."
He opened his own architecture firm in the city in 1980. Four years later, he made his mark as the associate architect on the centennial restoration of the Statue of Liberty, a two-year, $ 60 million project that involved 400 engineers, artisans and other workers.
"That project taught me that you need to learn as much as you can about a structure before you touch it," Mr. Despont told Vanity Fair. "We spent years drawing it, figuring out how it was built. That structure was absolutely brilliant. You cannot practice architecture without knowing history."
He is survived by his wife, Barbara von Bismarck; his daughters, Catherine and Louise, from his marriage to Ann Robinson, which ended in divorce in 1995; his stepsons, Konstantin and Alexander von Bismarck; his sisters, Catherine Bardon, Véronique Burki-Despont and Nathalie Bacholle; and a grandson.
As with his glittering homes and hotels, Mr. Despont's goal in life was to leave a mark that endured.
In his 1996 interview with The Times, Mr. Despont discussed his admiration for Nicolas Fouquet, a finance minister for King Louis XIV who famously built the spectacular Château de Vaux-le-Vicomte near Paris. The king later imprisoned Mr. Fouquet for crimes including stealing from the state and plotting to overthrow the government.
But perhaps Mr. Fouquet's dire end was not the point to dwell on, he said: "He had achieved his immortality, so who cares what happened after that?"
Photograph Mr. Despont restored landmark properties like the Ritz Paris, left. By designing the private club Casa Cipriani, right, he transformed the Battery Maritime Building at the southern tip of Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREAS MEICHSNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ADRIAN GAUT FOR CASA CIPRIANI); His low-key demeanor belied the grandeur of his renovations at the Beaumont hotel in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZAC AND ZAC); Thierry Despont at his Manhattan studio in 2011. "You cannot practice architecture," he once said, "without knowing history." (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Architects; Hotels & motels; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Architects Hotels & motels

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Louis XIV, King of France (1638-1715); Gates, Bill

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/20/arts/thierry-despont-dead.html

Title: Thierry Despont, 75, Elegant Hand Behind Architectural Gems, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 22, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2854236563

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thierry-despont-75-elegant-hand-behind/docview/2854236563/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Thierry Despont, Who Brought Elegance to Prestigious Properties, Dies at 75

Author: Williams, Alex

Publication info: Williams, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thierry-despont-who-brought-elegance-prestigious/docview/2854095085/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Thierry Despont, a worldly, erudite French architect and designer whose rich sense of history and heritage brought a refined elegance to the grand homes of industry titans such as Bill Gates and Calvin Klein, as well as to the restoration of landmark projects such as the Statue of Liberty, the Woolworth Building and the Ritz Paris, died Aug. 13 at his home in Southampton, New York. He was 75.
His death was confirmed in a statement provided by his family. No cause was specified.
A native of Limoges, France, Despont moved to New York in 1980 and quickly rose to a position of influence in the global architecture and design world. He was an officer of the Legion of Honor, the highest French honor, and was named to the Architectural Digest AD100 2023 Hall of Fame.
His low-key demeanor belied the grandeur of his monumental projects. They included restoring the Vendôme Column in Paris and, in New York, refurbishing the Carlyle hotel, the Palm Court at the Plaza and the flagship Cartier store on Fifth Avenue. He also renovated storied hotels in London, including Claridge’s, the Beaumont and the Dorchester. And he drew acclaim for his transformation of the Battery Maritime Building at the southern tip of Manhattan into the sumptuous private club Casa Cipriani.
But even in his most illustrious buildings, sheer opulence was not the point. “I like to create a small universe,” he said in a 2015 interview with Vanity Fair. “From the master plan to the doorknobs, from the trees planted outside to the way people will sit and eat and dance inside, you create and control a whole microcosm.”
Given the scale of his grandest projects, “macrocosm” might be a better word. He designed Gates’ 66,000-square-foot lakefront house in Medina, Washington, known as Xanadu 2.0, and Klein’s 8.5-acre spread in East Hampton, New York, which sold for a reported $85 million two years ago.
Among his more publicized projects was his remodeling of the Herbert N. Straus House, a cavernous 30-room town house on East 71st Street in Manhattan, for retail billionaire Leslie Wexner.
“Thierry designs houses that are an homage to the client,” his friend Martha Stewart said in a 1999 interview with The New York Times Magazine. “He’s really designing for a king.”
As Despont put it in a 2016 talk at the French Institute Alliance Française in New York, “There has never, never been a great house without first a great owner.”
For more than 30 years, he designed the interiors and exterior details for several homes belonging to his friends Millard S. Drexler, a retailing baron, and his wife, Peggy.
In a phone interview, Drexler praised Despont’s timeless sensibility, which he compared to his own taste in apparel. “Like with schmattas,” said Drexler, CEO of Alex Mill and formerly of the Gap and J. Crew, “you design things that feel special, unique and high-quality, but with a vision of never going out of style, that can be worn forever.”
The important thing for Despont, Drexler added, was creating a design that celebrated the unique history and character of a property. For the couple’s vineyard estate in St. Helena, California, Despont installed green and yellow glass windows to accentuate the golden California landscape and the leafy rows of vines.
For their 5.7-acre oceanfront compound in Montauk, New York, which formerly belonged to Andy Warhol, Despont created a rustic fishing-village charm using simple, sturdy antiques and homey touches such as vintage linen slipcovers. The Drexlers sold the compound for $50 million in 2015.
“The interiors he concocts for his immensely wealthy clients are a swirl of highly focused, carefully edited clutter,” architecture writer Karrie Jacobs wrote in the Los Angeles Times in 1996.
Despont’s own pad in New York’s Tribeca area was one that stood proudly among those of his well-heeled clients: a 10,000-square-foot town house with plaid-print walls in the billiard room and art deco curves on custom alpaca sofas.
His affable personality and Old World charm placed Despont in high regard in New York society; he chafed, however, at being described as a “society decorator.”
A gentleman aesthete in the European tradition, he was an accomplished sculptor and watercolorist who displayed and sold his work in New York and Europe. He collected antique maps, stocked his bookshelves with leather-bound volumes of French history and literature, and expressed a particular appreciation for Romanian pianist Radu Lupu’s recital of Franz Schubert’s “Moments Musicaux.”
“With a slight patina of age — a dash of gray at the peak, a few laugh lines — he cuts an impressive silhouette in a black three-piece suit,” Julie V. Iovine wrote in a 1997 profile in The New York Times.
In that profile, Gillian Wilson, a former curator at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, where Despont collaborated with the building’s architect, Richard Meier, on the design of multiple galleries, was quoted as calling him “disgustingly charming — part matinee idol, part Louis XIV.”
Thierry Guy Despont was born in Limoges on April 19, 1948, the eldest of four children of Guy and Francette (Breuil) Despont.
Although he drew an early appreciation for the aesthetic possibilities of buildings from his father, an architect, his design sensibilities were born of his earliest memories of his grandfather’s bucolic farmhouse.
“I do believe we all have inside us some memories, some images, of a house, a window, a shaded porch, of a tree that we are trying to recapture later on,” he said in his Alliance Française talk. His memories of the farmhouse, he said, reminded him of a favorite line from a novel by Rainer Maria Rilke: “It is not a complete building, but broken pieces inside me; a room here, a room there, and then a piece of hallway that does not connect these two rooms.”
“Each project that I do for my clients,” he said, “is a piece of this dream house that I have inside of me.”
He received a degree in architecture from the École Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris in 1972 before moving to the United States, where in 1975 he earned a master’s degree in urban planning from Harvard University.
Despont began his career at the architecture firm Llewelyn Davies, working on a redesign of the city center in Tehran, Iran, for the Shah of Iran.
Before long, he set his sights on the American capital of architecture, New York. “New York has this sense of freedom and possibility,” he said in a 2017 interview with The New Yorker. “This mix of culture and race from all over the world. It’s wonderful.”
He opened his own architecture firm in the city in 1980. Four years later, he made his mark as the associate architect on the centennial restoration of the Statue of Liberty, a two-year, $60 million project that involved 400 engineers, artisans and other workers.
“That project taught me that you need to learn as much as you can about a structure before you touch it,” Despont told Vanity Fair. “We spent years drawing it, figuring out how it was built. That structure was absolutely brilliant. You cannot practice architecture without knowing history.”
He is survived by his wife, Barbara von Bismarck; his daughters, Catherine and Louise, from his marriage to Ann Robinson, which ended in divorce in 1995; his stepsons, Konstantin and Alexander von Bismarck; his sisters, Catherine Bardon, Véronique Burki-Despont and Nathalie Bacholle; and a grandson.
As with his glittering homes and hotels, his goal in life was to leave a mark that endured.
In his 1997 interview with the Times, Despont discussed his admiration for Nicolas Fouquet, a finance minister for King Louis XIV who famously built the spectacular Château de Vaux-le-Vicomte near Paris. The king later imprisoned Fouquet for crimes including stealing from the state and plotting to overthrow the government.
But perhaps Fouquet’s dire end was not the point to dwell on, he said: “He had achieved his immortality, so who cares what happened after that?”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Architects; Hotels & motels; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Architects Hotels & motels

Location: Iran; California; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Louis XIV, King of France (1638-1715)

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Meier, Richard; Gap Inc; Trees And Shrubs; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Schubert, Franz; Getty, J Paul, Museum; Manhattan (Nyc); Southampton (England); Deaths (Obituaries); Gentrification; Harvard University; Calvin Klein Inc; Death And Dying; Architecture; Seafood; United States; Beaumont Hotel (London, England); Rilke, Rainer Maria; Antiques; East Hampton (Ny); Warhol, Andy; California; Battery Park (Manhattan, Ny); Limoges (France); Design; Culture (Arts); Gates, Bill; New Yorker; Iran; Europe; Battery Maritime Building (Manhattan, Ny); Beaumont (Calif); Shopping And Retail; Despont, Thierry W; Art; Tehran (Iran); Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Ritz (Manhattan, Ny, Nightclub); Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); St Helena (Calif); Senses And Sensati on; Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Law And Legislation; International Relations; Paris (France); Plaza Hotel (Manhattan, Ny); Hotel Ritz Paris; Accidents And Safety; Louis Xiv, King Of France; Drexler, Millard S; J Crew Group; Woolworth Building (Manhattan, Ny); Montauk (Ny); Romania; Vanity Fair; Historic Buildings And Sites; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Klein, Calvin; Architectural Digest; Collectors And Collections; Magazines; France; Stewart, Martha; High Net Worth Individuals; Tribeca (Manhattan, Ny); Carlyle Hotel (Manhattan, Ny, Hotel); Jacobs, Karrie; Los Angeles Times; Appointments And Executive Changes; Statue Of Liberty; Rainer Maria; Urban Areas; New York Times; Lupu, Radu; Handicrafts; Classical Music; Books And Literature

Title: Thierry Despont, Who Brought Elegance to Prestigious Properties, Dies at 75

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-22T00:11:12Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2854095085

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thierry-despont-who-brought-elegance-prestigious/docview/2854095085/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Poet's View From Behind the Met's Help Desk: [Style Desk]

Author: Lange, Maggie

Publication info: Lange, Maggie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/poets-view-behind-mets-help-desk/docview/2853182246/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On and off throughout the 1990s, the poet Robyn Schiff fielded questions -- many bathroom-related -- as part of her job working the museum's famous octagonal information desk.
During a recent visit to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Robyn Schiff pointed to the mezzanine in the grand entrance. The balcony hovers right over the information desk where Ms. Schiff, a noted poet and English professor, worked from 1995 to 2000, greeting and directing museum visitors. "My boss would stand up there and look down to make sure we were smiling," Ms. Schiff said.
On Tuesday, Ms. Schiff published her fourth book of poetry, "Information Desk: An Epic," about her five years at the museum, off and on. It's a searing yet reverent book-length poem, containing as many jokes as it does social critiques, odes to forgeries and furious passages about goatish colleagues.
Ms. Schiff's work has often referred to her time at the museum, starting in 2002 with her first book, "Worth," and its passages about Cartier and the Tiffany Studios, which had exhibitions at the museum during her time there, in 1997 and 1998. Her last book, "A Woman of Property," includes the poem "Lion Felling a Bull," about a marble fragment from the Met. More recently, the poet wanted to turn her attention to grand institutional power. Where better than the Met?
For Ms. Schiff, who grew up in New Jersey, the Met "has always been my sacred place." After graduating from Sarah Lawrence in 1995, she moved to New York City with ambitions to write and work in publishing. She started temping, and in between each gig she would spend her days at the museum. One day, she saw an advertisement that the Met was hiring guards. She applied, interviewed and didn't get the job. But her interviewer gave her a binder of other open positions, and soon she started at the information desk.
Intermittently for half a decade, Ms. Schiff mostly answered one question. As she writes in "Information Desk," the "catechism/commences: Where's the bathroom?/Where's/the bathroom? Can you direct me to a/men's room?" She would trace the week's passing by the decay of lilies placed in the vase in the center of the octagonal desk each Monday. She learned the particularities of the Met's policies and tried to convey them to thousands of visitors. She writes about the "beautiful bike messengers/who resented us/for being the slowest reception desk/in New York City. They didn't even flirt with us/so impatient were they with our/procedure." And, in between, Ms. Schiff forged intense, powerful connections to art.
"One of the people who interviewed me told me that for the rest of my life I'd have a relationship with this building and the objects in it, and that coming into this space every day would be transformative," Ms. Schiff recalled. "And it was true."
After she left the Met for graduate school, she returned during summers, when the museum always needed more staff. Upon her graduation from an M.F.A. program, she returned again. Since then, Ms. Schiff has taught at Emory, and in the fall she will start as an English professor at the University of Chicago. Still, she can't seem to shake the idea she belongs behind that marble help desk in the Great Hall. "Even after I left for the last time, and never came back," she said, "I thought, I always will be back to the Met."
Walking through the museum on Aug. 3, she said that she had paid a visit every day on her New York trip so far (three consecutive days, at that point). Each time she visits, Ms. Schiff tries to lounge on a blue couch in Gallery 958, whose red velvet damask walls are laden with El Grecos. She used to go there on breaks and take off her name tag so she wouldn't have to answer questions from visitors.
During her time at the desk, Ms. Schiff was called upon to provide impossible information. People wanted to know how to get to the so-called Elgin Marbles, which had been in London for nearly two centuries by then. People came in requesting to see the dinosaurs; those were right across the park, Ms. Schiff answered, pointing them to the American Museum of Natural History. She was asked to provide bus routes. "At the time, the information desk was almost a spokesperson of New York City, with the kinds of questions that people asked," she said.
She once corrected Gene Wilder, who tried to argue that the Met was open late that night. He said he had even called to check. "I said to him, 'You called MoMA,"' Ms. Schiff said. Susan Sontag once sauntered in, and it turned out she was friends with someone else who worked at the desk. In her poem, Ms. Schiff has a long, haunted passage about John F. Kennedy Jr.'s visit to the museum in 1995 or 1996. He asked for the time: "I had to tell him, 'Not much left/now'; we were/closing soon."
Ms. Schiff said of the Met, "Everything here is loaded -- there's nothing I don't like, but it's all loaded." Standing near the Temple of Dendur, an ancient Roman Empire project in Egypt, she pointed out her favorite graffiti in the museum: "Leonardo 1820." "To me, any sense of eternity is undermined by that, but in a really wonderful way," she said. "You look at the temple and you feel like this has been there forever, but before it came to New York it was sinking."
Ms. Schiff also wanted to visit the Temple of Dendur, housed in what was once called the Sackler Wing, to recall the 2018 protests, led by Nan Goldin, against members of the Sackler family and their family company's production of the widely prescribed (and widely abused) painkiller OxyContin. "It's really important history of this building now," Ms. Schiff said. "Things change once they're in this building. A protest becomes not just a protest; it becomes an exhibition about protest."
Ms. Schiff also brought up an infamous action by the Art Workers' Coalition, a Vietnam War-era collective, in which the group released cockroaches at a fancy dinner to protest the show "Harlem on My Mind," which did not include any work by Black artists. (Insects and their life alongside humans and our art make up a vivid B-plot of "Information Desk.") When Ms. Schiff went on a tour of the conservation department early in her training, she was fascinated by the way objects entering the museum were immediately quarantined in big bags to kill any bugs that might have been trying to sneak in. "They needed to make sure that there is no life in the art," she said.
In "Information Desk," Ms. Schiff illustrates how the position of gatekeeper is as much about letting things in as keeping them out. She remembers instructions to carefully avoid signing for certain packages. As she writes in the book, if someone left a painting by the desk, and she signed for it, it "could be claimed as belonging to the/Metropolitan/Museum of Art! imagine that!"
Photograph The octagonal marble information desk in the Met's Great Hall, and Robyn Schiff, on a recent return visit, far right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST6-ST7) This article appeared in print on page ST6, ST7.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Poets

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/15/style/robyn-schiff-metropolitan-museum-of-art.html

Title: A Poet's View From Behind the Met's Help Desk:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182246

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/poets-view-behind-mets-help-desk/docview/2853182246/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

British Museum Fires Worker Suspected of Looting Gold and Gems From Storeroom: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Marshall, Alex

Publication info: Marshall, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/british-museum-fires-worker-suspected-looting/docview/2851701399/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The museum said that it had dismissed a worker accused of taking the items, some thousands of years old, from a storeroom. The police are investigating.
The British Museum has fired a staff member on suspicion of looting jewels from a storeroom and started a review of its security practices, the museum announced Wednesday.
The worker, who has not been named, stole or damaged items including gold jewelry and "gems of semi-precious stones and glass" dating from the 15th century B.C. to the 19th century A.D., the museum said in a news release.
London's police force said in a statement that it was conducting an investigation, but that there had not been any arrests and that its "enquiries continue."
Because of the police investigation, the museum would not comment on the value of the missing items or give any more details about them, a museum spokeswoman said in a telephone interview. The museum said that the majority of the items were small pieces kept in a storeroom. None had recently been on public display, the museum said, adding that "they were kept primarily for academic and research purposes."
George Osborne, the museum's chair, said in the news release that the museum was now working to recover the items and would "do whatever it takes, with investment in security and collections records, to make sure this doesn't happen again."
"It's a sad day for all who love our British Museum, but we're determined to right the wrongs and use the experience to build a stronger museum," Osborne said.
The thefts are far from the first at the London institution. In 2017, the museum announced that six years earlier it lost a diamond Cartier ring worth almost a million dollars. In 2004, 15 pieces of Chinese jewelry were stolen in opening hours, while in 2002 a 2,500-year-old Greek marble head was taken from atop a plinth.
Several other European museums have also been victims of theft recently. Last year, thieves stole a cache of almost 500 ancient gold coins from the Celtic and Roman Museum in Manching, Bavaria. In 2019, a heist at Dresden's Green Vault museum led to about €100 million, some $ 108 million, worth of jewels going missing. In May, five men were convicted for their role in that heist, and much of the jewelry has been recovered.
Christopher A. Marinello, a lawyer who works on recovering stolen art, said in a telephone interview that thefts from museums were "a big problem" worldwide and often involved staff. Still, he added, "for this to happen at the British Museum is extremely embarrassing and alarming."
Wednesday's announcement comes just over a week after a man was wounded in a stabbing outside the museum, leading to the tourist attraction being evacuated.
Photograph The British Museum announced on Wednesday that it was reviewing its security practices and had dismissed an employee who is thought to have stolen or damaged items from its vast collection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL LEAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A5.

Subject: Jewelry; Art theft; Looting; Criminal investigations; Museums

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/16/arts/design/british-museum-theft.html

Title: British Museum Fires Worker Suspected of Looting Gold and Gems From Storeroom:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2851701399

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/british-museum-fires-worker-suspected-looting/docview/2851701399/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Land of Milk, Honey and Fine Cashmere: [Style Desk]

Author: Larocca, Amy

Publication info: Larocca, Amy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/land-milk-honey-fine-cashmere/docview/2843499839/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Are there Americans who don't have fantasies about a better life in California? About gold in the rivers, giant fruit in the yards and a hardcore, neon sunset every single night? The collective westward yearn is endlessly evolving and migrating around the very big state, sometimes dampened but never entirely silenced by stories about natural disasters and inner-city crime.
If property values, pop-culture mentions, and multipage Architectural Digest spreads are any indication, that yearn currently centers on the not-even-10 square miles of a not-even-town on the southern edge of Santa Barbara: Montecito.
A place whose desirability makes it clear that the current American dream is not about hustling to auditions or starting a company that changes the world -- as the Californian fantasies of old promised -- but instead is simply about being very, very comfortable as often as possible. If "wellness" were made manifest by a single dot on an enormous world map, that dot would land neatly on Montecito. It's where wealthy people who have succeeded in becoming their best selves go in order to maintain the exalted state.
With the Santa Ynez mountains to the East and the Pacific Ocean to the west, and air that smells faintly of lavender and eucalyptus, Montecito is one of the rare places that looks even better in real life than it does on Instagram.
It's an essential stopping place in the trajectory of modern fame, the place to go when attention grows onerous: Oprah Winfrey has a colossal spread here, and Ellen DeGeneres has a few. Montecito is where Gwyneth Paltrow goes when the pressures of Brentwood are too much. Adam Levine and some number of Ritchie sisters and their stylist are all residents, and Ariana Grande was, for a time, in a house she bought from Ms. DeGeneres. Jennifer Aniston bought a $ 16.5 million property from Ms. Winfrey, who had not had time to use it. Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom have a place there, as does Ms. Perry's father, who is endlessly bopping around town dressed in a psychedelic mash up of Chrome Hearts and Ed Hardy, an aesthetic that borrows equally from '90s O.C. skaters, Elton John and Flava Flav. Last year, the celebrity juicer Amanda Chantal Bacon moved to town, her suitcase packed with cordyceps, head scarves and health.
A driving tour of Montecito's elaborate and forbidding gates and lined driveways suggests that only Madame Tussauds has more celebrities per square foot, even if Montecito's celebrities -- in their off-the-clock mufti of leggings and micro-weight Patagonia vests and dark baseball caps -- can be harder to spot. Really, in the end, where else could Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, have gone to live their truth?
But it's not just the famous who come to Montecito, it's also the straight-up rich. The writers of "Succession" situated the classy, stealth-wealth billionaire Pierce family in a home that, in real life, is owned by Google's former chief executive Eric Schmidt and sits just over the border in Santa Barbara. Montecito is loaded with the less-recognizable names behind very recognizable things, including Ty Warner, the press-shy inventor of Beanie Babies, who lives in a rose-colored mansion with views of the whole landscape.
It's a dizzying combination of old wealth, new wealth and outrageous physical beauty that has begun to attract an ever-wider range of dreamers. And that new level of visibility has the potential to rattle the whole thing.
Sweaters and Soup
Until a few months ago, I had never been to Montecito. In my mind, it was a place where evenings called for a lightweight cashmere sweater (they do!) and green juice ran through city taps (nope); a place so serene that there was no such thing as a bad night's sleep there.
My guide was Ashley McGowan, a third-generation Montecitan with long blonde hair and bright blue eyes who works in the family business: real estate. Ms. McGowan knows everything about every inch of the town: She spent her childhood running barefoot over the tiled floors and swimming in the pools she now markets. If Ms. McGowan's youth sounds idyllic, she is quick to point out that her grandparents, who described riding their horses through wild citrus groves when they wanted to see a friend, had it even better. "It's a pretty amazing way to grow up," she said. She's raising her own daughter here, watching polo and playing on the beach.
So what is Montecito really like? Pale, pricey, gently geriatric. In the most recent census, fewer than 1 percent of the town's 8,200 residents were Black. (Or: approximately 80 people who are not Meghan or Ms. Winfrey.) About two-thirds of the population votes blue, and the recent median list price for houses on the market was $ 6.75 million. Those houses sell fast, often over asking price. More than a third of Montecito residents are over 65 (this tally includes Carol Burnett), which is twice the national average. Elizabeth Colling, owner of the popular local restaurant Merci Montecito, describes a clientele keen for ever more soup.
The town's retail offerings tend to center on long, ivory cashmere sweaters, which you can find at various soothing destinations: a Jenni Kayne home store selling the designer's neutral-colored blankets and other Nancy Meyers-y things, or Wendy Foster, where you can keep the Meyersian dream going. It's all very Meryl Streep in "It's Complicated," which was filmed just up the road.
Montecito did, for a long time, stay -- if not secret -- relatively unmentioned, apart from the occasional little item about Ms. Winfrey's vegetable garden, or the fact that Rob Lowe is a Republican and lives there. The celebrities have always come: The small hotel in town was opened by Charlie Chaplin. Clark Gable and Greta Garbo both owned homes in town. So many glamorous Europeans came to Montecito during the first half of the 20th century that it got the nickname "The American Riviera." They built versions of their European country homes here -- with the fabulous quality of the light and the spectacular waterfront views, who needed St.-Tropez?
This batch included Ganna Walska, a Polish opera singer and muse to Paul Poiret and Louis-Francois Cartier. She built Lotusland, an estate on 37 acres, and then sold off the bulk of the jewelry given to her by her six husbands over the years. (At one point, Ms. Walska launched a beauty line anchored by a signature perfume called "Divorcons.") She used the proceeds of the jewelry sales to buy and plant the most exotic species on Earth and create an otherworldly, climate-defying garden where cactuses and azaleas abutted each other to trippy, magical effect. Lotusland remains intact, a pet charity of Montecito's social set.
The thing about being rich in New York or Los Angeles is that wealth can insulate a person only so much. In New York you can spend $ 20 million for an apartment and find that the retail tenant in your building is a shop that sells rolling paper, glass pipes and the service of fixing your shattered phone. There might be a dead rat right outside, too.
Sometimes it is so quiet and so pretty in Montecito that I find myself wondering if this is what it's like to be dead.
A Hotel Brings Change
And yet Montecito is hardly immune to the catastrophes facing the rest of the world and, specifically, the natural disasters plaguing California.
In 2018, the town was devastated by a massive landslide that swept down the mountain and through its streets, killing 23 people as they slept in their beds. Ms. McGowan attended 17 funerals in single week.
But two years later, when the country shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic, a flood of people who had heard about this land of milk, honey and fine-gauge cashmere wanted to be there. The memory of the mudslide receded. It was hard to comprehend if you weren't actually there when it happened.
The second half of 2020 saw a 411 percent jump in real estate closings in Montecito. Prices skyrocketed in response, holding at about 25 percent higher than they were in prepandemic times. If you could afford it, where better to be stuck at home? Montecito is about 90 minutes from Los Angeles by car, and there are multiple commercial flights (not to mention a private airstrip) making the hourlong hop from Santa Barbara to San Francisco. Even when the pandemic trickled to its sort-of end, the new calculus of where it was possible to live and work when one was very, or even just kind of, rich, made this life -- these Seussian flowers, these winding trails climbing up through the hills -- feasible for more people than ever before.
A sampling of the housing market with Ms. McGowan revealed a hillside, bougainvillea-covered Spanish-style villa with hypnotic Pacific views by the famed local architect George Washington Smith for $ 11 million, and a chic renovation of a one-story ranch house around a planted courtyard -- the kind of place where you would not just have friends over, but properly entertain -- for $ 8 million.
The great irony of very expensive houses is that they are rarely the owner's only spot. Many Montecitans are only part-time. Like much of the rest of America, Santa Barbara has found itself in an affordable housing crisis. And as the area has become better known, the short-term-rental market has exploded, which has had the effect of making the primary-residence market more expensive than ever. It can feel like Montecito's most pressing problems are the problems of too much: too much desirability, too many people wanting a piece of the spectacular pie.
Das Williams, the supervisor for the first district of Santa Barbara (which includes Montecito), described the havoc that this specific brew could take on a town, and said he had grown used to Montecitan concerns. "When people come to me and say, oh this or that will be terrible for property value, I just say, 'Good!"' said Mr. Williams, who lives in nearby Carpinteria with his family.
There's no question that Montecito, like so many places, has changed, and not just from the rural, idyllic days of Ms. McGowan's grandparents. In March 2019, the Rosewood Miramar Beach hotel opened after a $ 200 million-plus restoration that turned an oceanfront property into what is arguably one of the nicest hotels in the country. The renovation was spearheaded by Rick Caruso, the billionaire shopping-mall magnate who lost his bid to be the mayor of Los Angeles last year. His campaign was heavily supported by many celebrities, Ms. Perry and Ms. Paltrow, both residents of Montecito, among them.
Mr. Caruso tried to tread gently. The hotel abuts a preschool, and during its construction, Caruso gave the children mini hard hats and windows onto the Richard Scarry-esque diggers-and-all scene. He has also embossed a personal mantra onto a northern wall of the edifice: "Lord, You have given us so many good things ... give us one thing more ... give us grateful hearts! ... RJC."
(Apology and gratitude are common deflections among Montecitans. "I know, I'm so lucky, I know!" They say it all the time.)
But in the wake of the hotel's opening, even more celebrities and influencers -- and all those hybrids of the two, all the people who have content to make and to sell -- have swarmed, and this new group of them is geotagging like crazy. Spencer Pratt likes the macaroni and cheese at Lucky's! Jane Lynch's dog is a big fan of the local parks. Kourtney Kardashian and Travis Barker's lavish, Instagram-ready engagement ritual took place at the hotel in October 2021.
The Rosewood property also houses the Miramar Club, a members-only club for local residents that has a six figure initiation fee. It is the first beachfront alternative to the old-world Coral Casino up the road on Butterfly Beach -- which is no less expensive, but is a far harder nut to crack. The casino, now owned by Mr. Warner, the Beanie Baby tycoon, closed at the beginning of the pandemic and has yet to reopen amid a bitter fight about the inclusion of Tydes, a restaurant helmed by the celebrity chef Thomas Keller that would open to the public. (The pool and other facilities would remain private.)
This all has the Montecito old guard up in arms: Is it really a club if anyone can stop by for a chopped salad and an iced tea? "A restaurant of this setting, standard and cuisine deserves buzz, energy and a vibrant ambience," Mr. Warner offered by way of a rebuttal.
Ms. McGowan, for her part, laughs it off. "You'll hear people complaining that you can't just walk into Lucky's and get a table anymore," she says, referring to the local steakhouse where the filet mignon is $ 88.
It's not just Ms. Kardashian and Mr. Barker, though. The paparazzi, who legendarily didn't bother with Montecito -- it's much easier to score in Malibu, about an hour south-- showed up outside a local preschool during Adam Levine's sexting scandal last year.
In October 2021, a local woman sent a screen shot of a mountain lion she had snapped from her home security camera to a neighborhood chat group: an exciting thing to share with some friends. Her phone began ringing right away: It was The Sun, it was The Daily Mail, all wanting to know, were Harry and Meghan in danger? The woman, who lived on the other side of the town, was confused. It has nothing to do with them, she thought.
But the reporters were not deterred: "Harry and Meghan's fears for their 'hipster' chickens after warnings about a giant mountain lion prowling close to their $ 14 million Montecito Manse," came the headline. The tabloids' readers now know Montecito: They know it is a place where people live lives that involve chickens of the exclusive Californian hipster breed.
Lotusland
Living with the threat of further natural disasters is a choice that residents of coastal California have been making for years, and scores of people have decided that it's absolutely worth the risk. (State Farm, Allstate, AIG and Chubb insurers, among others, disagree; all have stopped issuing new home insurance policies in the state.)
In January, on the fifth anniversary of the deadly mudflow, Montecito flooded again. Ms. DeGeneres, who was sheltering in place (her house is on high ground), posted a video of a creek on her property gushing water. "We need to be nicer to Mother Nature," she said, "because Mother Nature is not happy with us."
This time, far more people heeded evacuation warnings and left. Although there were other deaths in the state, Montecito was spared this time. Residents were home a day later, and then spent an uneasy winter calculating threat after threat as the state continued to endure alarming levels of wet. Recently, Ms. Chantal Bacon reposted her leaving-Montecito Instagram footage of a cute little Mini Cooper navigating high, brown water as the introduction for an online conversation with her followers she'd be hosting about death.
Montecito, and the embarrassing torrent of clichés it evokes, makes it easy to forget the threats. As I wandered around the near-psychedelic wonder that is Lotusland, I couldn't believe that just a few hours later I'd be back on a United Airlines flight to Newark, quietly navigating for the shared armrest in coach with more hostility than I'd felt all week.
When I'd first arrived, I sent a text to my husband back in Brooklyn suggesting that we, too, renounce our families and move West for truth and eucalyptus and blah blah blah. I sent more: photographs of a 70-year-old bonsai tree tucked beside a redwood, a trippy cactus forest silhouetted against the Santa Ynez, the Pacific stretching out before me.
"I think it's time to come home," he wrote back. "You do know about the Lotus eaters, right?"
Photograph Top, Butterfly Beach in Montecito, Calif., an unincorporated town of 8,200 abutting Santa Barbara, where the recent median list price for homes on the market was $ 6.75 million. Above right, downtown Montecito. Below, a washed-out road. In 2018, a mudslide in Montecito killed 23 people. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM AMENGUAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST8.

Subject: Gardens & gardening; Architecture; Jewelry; Celebrities; Pandemics; Wealth

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Wealth

Location: Santa Barbara California; California; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/28/style/montecito-california.html

Title: The Land of Milk, Honey and Fine Cashmere:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843499839

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/land-milk-honey-fine-cashmere/docview/2843499839/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Land of Milk, Honey and Fine Cashmere

Author: Larocca, Amy

Publication info: Larocca, Amy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/land-milk-honey-fine-cashmere/docview/2843429657/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MONTECITO, Calif. — Are there Americans who don’t have fantasies about a better life in California? About gold in the rivers, giant fruit in the yards and a hard-core, neon sunset every single night? The collective westward yearn is endlessly evolving and migrating around the very big state, sometimes dampened but never entirely silenced by stories about natural disasters and inner-city crime.
If property values, pop-culture mentions, and multipage Architectural Digest spreads are any indication, that yearn currently centers on the not-even-10 square miles of a not-even-town on the southern edge of Santa Barbara: Montecito .
A place whose desirability makes it clear that the current American dream is not about hustling to auditions or starting a company that changes the world — as the Californian fantasies of old promised — but instead is simply about being very, very comfortable as often as possible. If “wellness” were made manifest by a single dot on an enormous world map, that dot would land neatly on Montecito. It’s where wealthy people who have succeeded in becoming their best selves go in order to maintain the exalted state.
With the Santa Ynez Mountains to the East and the Pacific Ocean to the west, and air that smells faintly of lavender and eucalyptus, Montecito is one of the rare places that looks even better in real life than it does on Instagram.
It’s an essential stopping place in the trajectory of modern fame, the place to go when attention grows onerous: Oprah Winfrey has a colossal spread here, and Ellen DeGeneres has a few. Montecito is where Gwyneth Paltrow goes when the pressures of Brentwood are too much. Adam Levine and some number of Ritchie sisters and their stylist are all residents, and Ariana Grande was, for a time, in a house she bought from DeGeneres. Jennifer Aniston bought a $16.5 million property from Winfrey, who had not had time to use it. Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom have a place there, as does Perry’s father, who is endlessly bopping around town dressed in a psychedelic mashup of Chrome Hearts and Ed Hardy, an aesthetic that borrows equally from ’90s O.C. skaters, Elton John and Flava Flav. Last year, celebrity juicer Amanda Chantal Bacon moved to town, her suitcase packed with cordyceps, headscarves and health.
A driving tour of Montecito’s elaborate and forbidding gates and lined driveways suggests that only Madame Tussauds has more celebrities per square foot, even if Montecito’s celebrities — in their off-the-clock mufti of leggings and micro-weight Patagonia vests and dark baseball caps — can be harder to spot. Really, in the end, where else could Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, have gone to live their truth?
But it’s not just the famous who come to Montecito, it’s also the straight-up rich. The writers of “Succession” situated the classy, stealth-wealth billionaire Pierce family in a home that, in real life, is owned by Google’s former CEO Eric Schmidt and sits just over the border in Santa Barbara. Montecito is loaded with the less-recognizable names behind very recognizable things, including Ty Warner, the press-shy inventor of Beanie Babies, who lives in a rose-colored mansion with views of the whole landscape.
It’s a dizzying combination of old wealth, new wealth and outrageous physical beauty that has begun to attract an ever-wider range of dreamers. And that new level of visibility has the potential to rattle the whole thing.
Sweaters and Soup
Until a few months ago, I had never been to Montecito. In my mind, it was a place where evenings called for a lightweight cashmere sweater (they do!) and green juice ran through city taps (nope); a place so serene that there was no such thing as a bad night’s sleep there.
My guide was Ashley McGowan, a third-generation Montecitan with long blond hair and bright blue eyes who works in the family business: real estate. McGowan knows everything about every inch of the town: She spent her childhood running barefoot over the tiled floors and swimming in the pools she now markets. If McGowan’s youth sounds idyllic, she is quick to point out that her grandparents, who described riding their horses through wild citrus groves when they wanted to see a friend, had it even better. “It’s a pretty amazing way to grow up,” she said. She’s raising her daughter here, watching polo and playing on the beach.
So what is Montecito really like? Pale, pricey, gently geriatric. In the most recent census, fewer than 1% of the town’s 8,200 residents were Black. (Or: approximately 80 people who are not Meghan or Winfrey.) About two-thirds of the population votes blue, and the recent median list price for houses on the market was $6.75 million. Those houses sell fast, often over asking price. More than one-third of Montecito residents are over 65 (this tally includes Carol Burnett), which is twice the national average. Elizabeth Colling, owner of the popular local restaurant Merci Montecito, describes a clientele keen for ever more soup.
The town’s retail offerings tend to center on long, ivory cashmere sweaters, which you can find at various soothing destinations: a Jenni Kayne home store selling the designer’s neutral-colored blankets and other Nancy Meyers-y things, or Wendy Foster, where you can keep the Meyersian dream going. It’s all very Meryl Streep in “It’s Complicated,” which was filmed just up the road.
Montecito did, for a long time, stay — if not secret — relatively unmentioned, apart from the occasional little item about Winfrey’s vegetable garden, or the fact that Rob Lowe is a Republican and lives there. The celebrities have always come: The small hotel in town was opened by Charlie Chaplin. Clark Gable and Greta Garbo both owned homes in town. So many glamorous Europeans came to Montecito during the first half of the 20th century that it got the nickname “The American Riviera.” They built versions of their European country homes here — with the fabulous quality of the light and the spectacular waterfront views, who needed St.-Tropez?
This batch included Ganna Walska, a Polish opera singer and muse to Poiret and Cartier himself, who built Lotusland, an estate on 37 Montecito acres and then sold off the bulk of the jewelry given to her by her six husbands. (At one point, Walska launched a beauty line anchored by a signature perfume called “Divorcons.”) She used the proceeds of the jewelry sales to buy and plant the most exotic species on Earth and create an otherworldly, climate-defying garden where cactuses and azaleas abut one another to trippy, magical effect. Lotusland remains intact, a pet charity of Montecito’s social set.
The thing about being rich in New York or Los Angeles is that wealth can insulate a person only so much. In New York you can spend $20 million for an apartment and find that the retail tenant in your building is a shop that sells rolling paper, glass pipes and the service of fixing your shattered phone. There might be a dead rat right outside, too.
Sometimes it is so quiet and so pretty in Montecito that I find myself wondering if this is what it’s like to be dead.
A Hotel Brings Change
And yet Montecito is hardly immune to the catastrophes facing the rest of the world and, specifically, the natural disasters plaguing California.
In 2018, the town was devastated by a massive landslide that swept down the mountain and through its streets, killing 23 people as they slept. McGowan attended 17 funerals in single week.
But two years later, when the country shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic, a flood of people who had heard about this land of milk, honey and fine-gauge cashmere wanted to be there. The memory of the mudslide receded. It was hard to comprehend if you weren’t actually there when it happened.
The second half of 2020 saw a 411% jump in real estate closings in Montecito. Prices skyrocketed in response, holding at about 25% higher than they were in pre-pandemic times. If you could afford it, where better to be stuck at home? Montecito is about 90 minutes from Los Angeles by car, and there are multiple commercial flights (not to mention a private airstrip) making the hourlong hop from Santa Barbara to San Francisco. Even when the pandemic trickled to its sort-of end, the new calculus of where it was possible to live and work when one was very, or even just kind of, rich, made this life — these Seussian flowers, these winding trails climbing up through the hills — feasible for more people than ever.
A sampling of the housing market with McGowan revealed a hillside, bougainvillea-covered Spanish-style villa with hypnotic Pacific views by famed local architect George Washington Smith for $11 million, and a chic renovation of a one-story ranch house around a planted courtyard — the kind of place where you would not just have friends over, but properly entertain — for $8 million.
The great irony of very expensive houses is that they are rarely the owner’s only spot. Many Montecitans are only part time. Like much of the rest of America, Santa Barbara has found itself in an affordable housing crisis. And as the area has become better known, the short-term-rental market has exploded, which has had the effect of making the primary-residence market more expensive than ever. It can feel like Montecito’s most pressing problems are the problems of too much: too much desirability, too many people wanting a piece of the spectacular pie.
There’s no question that Montecito, like so many places, has changed, and not just from the rural, idyllic days of McGowan’s grandparents. In March 2019, the Rosewood Miramar Beach hotel opened after a $200 million-plus restoration that turned an oceanfront property into what is arguably one of the nicest hotels in the country. The renovation was spearheaded by Rick Caruso, a billionaire shopping-mall magnate who lost his bid to be the mayor of Los Angeles last year. His campaign was heavily supported by many celebrities, Perry and Paltrow, both residents of Montecito, among them.
Caruso tried to tread gently. The hotel abuts a preschool, and during its construction, Caruso gave the children mini hard hats and windows onto the Richard Scarry-esque diggers-and-all scene.
But in the wake of the hotel’s opening, even more celebrities and influencers — and all those hybrids of the two, all the people who have content to make and to sell — have swarmed, and this new group of them is geotagging like crazy. Spencer Pratt likes the macaroni and cheese at Lucky’s! Jane Lynch’s dog is a big fan of the local parks. Kourtney Kardashian and Travis Barker’s lavish, Instagram-ready engagement ritual took place at the hotel in October 2021.
The Rosewood property also houses the Miramar Club, a members-only club for local residents that has a six-figure initiation fee. It is the first beachfront alternative to the old-world Coral Casino up the road on Butterfly Beach — which is no less expensive, but is a far harder nut to crack. The casino, now owned by Warner, the Beanie Baby tycoon, closed at the beginning of the pandemic and has yet to reopen amid a bitter fight about the inclusion of Tydes, a restaurant helmed by celebrity chef Thomas Keller that would open to the public. (The pool and other facilities would remain private.)
This all has the Montecito old guard up in arms: Is it really a club if anyone can stop by for a chopped salad and an iced tea? “A restaurant of this setting, standard and cuisine deserves buzz, energy and a vibrant ambience,” Warner offered by way of a rebuttal.
McGowan, for her part, laughs it off. “You’ll hear people complaining that you can’t just walk into Lucky’s and get a table anymore,” she says, referring to the local steakhouse where the filet mignon is $88.
It’s not just Kardashian and Barker, though. The paparazzi, who legendarily didn’t bother with Montecito — it’s much easier to score in Malibu, about an hour south — showed up outside a local preschool during Adam Levine’s sexting scandal last year.
Provoking Mother Nature
Living with the threat of further natural disasters is a choice that residents of coastal California have been making for years, and scores of people have decided that it’s absolutely worth the risk. (State Farm, Allstate, AIG and Chubb insurers, among others, disagree; all have stopped issuing new home insurance policies in the state.)
In January, on the fifth anniversary of the deadly mudflow, Montecito flooded again. DeGeneres, who was sheltering in place (her house is on high ground), posted a video of a creek on her property gushing water. “We need to be nicer to Mother Nature,” she said, “because Mother Nature is not happy with us.”
This time, far more people heeded evacuation warnings and left. Although there were other deaths in the state, Montecito was spared this time. Residents were home a day later, and then spent an uneasy winter calculating threat after threat as the state continued to endure alarming levels of wet.
Montecito, and the embarrassing torrent of clichés it evokes, makes it easy to forget the threats. As I wandered around the near-psychedelic wonder that is Lotusland, I couldn’t believe that just a few hours later I’d be back on a United Airlines flight to Newark, New Jersey, quietly navigating for the shared armrest in coach with more hostility than I’d felt all week.
When I’d first arrived, I sent a text to my husband back in Brooklyn suggesting that we, too, renounce our families and move West for truth and eucalyptus and blah blah blah. I sent more: photographs of a 70-year-old bonsai tree tucked beside a redwood, a cactus forest silhouetted against the Santa Ynez, the Pacific stretching out before me.
“I think it’s time to come home,” he wrote back. “You do know about the Lotus eaters, right?”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Gardens & gardening; Architecture; Jewelry; Celebrities; Pandemics; Wealth

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Wealth

Location: Santa Barbara California; California; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Floods; Movies; St Tropez (France); Santa Barbara (Calif); Historic Buildings And Sites; Shopping Centers And Malls; Restaurants; Soups; Celebrities; Parties (Social); Landslides And Mudslides; Small Business; Beaches; Architecture; United States; Merci (Retailer); State Farm Insurance Cos; Disasters And Emergencies; Levine, Adam; Barker (Ny); Caruso, Rick J; Oceans And Seas; California; Automobiles; Perry, Katy; Coastal Areas; Flowers And Plants; Google Inc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Europe; Cacti (Plants); Instagram Inc; Gold; Bloom, Orlando; Streep, Meryl; Jewels And Jewelry; Shopping And Retail; Population; Barker, Travis (1975 ); Part Time Employment; Education (Pre School); John, Elton; Ice Skating; Gardens And Gardening; Keller, Thomas; Pacific Ocean; Polo; United States Politics And Government; Lynch, Jane; Chaplin, Charlie; Senses And Sensation; Poland; Los Angeles (Calif); Shutdowns (Institutional); Black People; Meyers, Nancy; Warner Brothers Pictures; Accidents And Safety; Montecito (Calif); Deaths (Fatalities); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; United Airlines; Lifestyle; Newark (Nj); San Francisco (Calif); Orlando (Fla); Insurance; Real Estate (Commercial); Architectural Digest; Pratt, Spencer; Markle, Meghan; Pop And Rock Music; Degeneres, Ellen; Harry, Duke Of Sussex; Royal Families; Aniston, Jennifer; Affordable Housing; Hats And Caps; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Republican Party; Santa Ynez Mountains (Calif); Evacuations And Evacuees; Magazines; Madame Tussaud's; Garbo, Greta; High Net Worth Individuals; Gable, Clark; Chubb Corp; Hardy, Don Ed; Paltrow, Gwyneth; Airlines And Airplanes; Winfrey, Oprah; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Dreams; Allstate Corp; Chrome Hearts (Fashion Label); Google Maps; Kayne, Jenni; Funerals And Memorials; Malibu (Calif); Fee, Richard; Fish And Other Marine Life; Brentwood (Calif); Forests And Forestry; Luxury Goods And Services; Bacon, Amanda Chantal; Cartier Sa; Hotels And Travel Lodgings; Schmidt, Eric E

Title: The Land of Milk, Honey and Fine Cashmere

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-29T17:29:29Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843429657

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/land-milk-honey-fine-cashmere/docview/2843429657/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company J ul 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Closer Look Into Santos's Schemes to Get Rich Through Politics: [National Desk]

Author: Ashford, Grace

Publication info: Ashford, Grace. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/closer-look-into-santoss-schemes-get-rich-through/docview/2842746920/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Santos, a first-term House member under federal indictment, often tried to use his candidacy and ties to Republican donors to create moneymaking opportunities.
About a year before George Santos was elected to Congress, he and three other men approached a loyal campaign donor with a potentially lucrative opportunity.
A wealthy Polish citizen wanted to buy cryptocurrency, they said, but for reasons unclear, his fortune was frozen in a bank account. They asked the donor, a wealthy investor in his own right, for help.
The donor was immediately skeptical. He was not told the Polish citizen's name. The men's plan -- having the donor create a limited liability company to gain access to the funds -- made no sense to him.
And while they hadn't yet asked for money, he was struck by how much their pitch resembled the classic Nigerian prince email scheme, in which a rich, potentially fictitious, foreigner asks an outsider to help free up frozen assets.
In the years since Mr. Santos first ran for the House in 2020, he has become adept at finding ways to extract money from politics. He founded a political consulting group that he marketed to other Republicans. He sought to profit from the Covid crisis, using campaign connections. And he solicited investments for and from political donors, raising ethical questions.
Mr. Santos has been charged with 13 felonies for misrepresenting his earnings, collecting $ 24,000 in unemployment while employed, and pocketing $ 50,000 he solicited from political supporters through what he claimed was a super PAC.
Mr. Santos, who has pleaded not guilty, has not been charged with personal use of campaign funds. But a review of his political career found several previously unreported examples of how he sought to use the connections he made as a candidate for public office to enrich himself.
The proposition involving the wealthy Polish national is a prime example, as Mr. Santos partnered with a former Republican state assemblyman, Michael LiPetri; and Bryant Park Associates, a company run by a Republican donor, Dominick Sartorio, according to the investor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he said his business interests would be harmed if he was publicly associated with Mr. Santos.
The interaction was so strange that the donor said he was uncertain if Mr. Santos and his partners were themselves being conned. He asked for more information, but was told to first sign a nondisclosure agreement. Three of their names appeared on the agreement, which was reviewed by The Times. When the investor asked for changes to the nondisclosure form, the talks ended.
Mr. LiPetri, now a lobbyist at the firm Park Strategies, sought to minimize his role in the venture, saying that while he was aware of Mr. Santos's efforts, he was not involved "in detail," and suggested that no deals ultimately materialized.
The congressman's lawyer, Joseph Murray, said that Mr. LiPetri had connected Mr. Santos to Bryant Park Associates, which represented the Polish citizen. "Mr. Santos only made the introductions. End of story," Mr. Murray said, adding that he had "no information" about the Polish man's identity.
Mr. Sartorio, a businessman whose ventures repeatedly forced him into bankruptcy, did not return repeated requests for comment.
Mr. Santos's actions have been scrutinized ever since The Times revealed last year that the high-powered finance career and fabulous wealth he bragged about on the campaign trail were fictional.
But sometime between his first ill-fated congressional run and the present, Mr. Santos's grandiose stories began to come to life. He started driving a Mercedes and wearing Cartier, and made large loans to his campaign. Mr. Santos has claimed that his company, the Devolder Organization, paid him $ 750,000 a year, plus dividends of more than a million dollars. Prosecutors have called those numbers inflated.
Mr. Santos has consistently rejected allegations of impropriety.
"I had the relationships and I started making a lot of money, I fundamentally started building wealth," he told City and State in December, several months before his indictment. "And I decided to invest in my race for Congress. There's nothing wrong with that -- no criminal conduct, no anything of the sort."
One of the earliest, previously unreported instances of Mr. Santos blurring his political and business interests came in July 2020, against the backdrop of Covid-driven shortages of personal protection equipment, and just six months into his first and unsuccessful bid for a House seat.
A campaign contact connected Mr. Santos to Blue Flame Medical, a new company run by Michael Gula, a Republican fund-raiser from Washington, D.C., and a California-based political consultant, John Thomas. The pair had recently pivoted from politics into procurement, recognizing the tremendous market for testing kits, masks and ventilators.
Blue Flame, which claimed to have access to supplies from a partner company owned by the Chinese government, soon ran into troubles of its own, after several clients said they had not received the materials promised. Blue Flame was investigated by federal authorities, but no charges were ever brought.
A referral agreement obtained by The Times shows that Mr. Santos was signed on as a consultant with the potential to receive 10 percent of any deal he brought in.
Mr. Santos separated from the company shortly afterward without arranging any deals, he said through his lawyer. Blue Flame had no comment.
Nearly a year later, Mr. Santos was again looking for business opportunities after his employer, Harbor City Capital, a Florida-based investment firm, was shut down amid accusations from the Securities and Exchange Commission that it was operating as a Ponzi scheme.
Mr. Santos opened a political consulting firm with his campaign treasurer, Nancy Marks, and some Harbor City colleagues. Called Red Strategies USA, it aimed to be a one-stop shop for Republican candidates and would handle everything from bookkeeping to ad production.
One of its first clients was Tina Forte, a far-right firebrand who had developed an online following after criticizing coronavirus mandates. Mr. Santos encouraged her to run against Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat who represents part of the Bronx and Queens, according to Ms. Forte's former campaign manager, Jen Remauro.
Mr. Santos told Ms. Forte that he knew of a great political consulting firm, Ms. Remauro recalled, and steered her to Red Strategies -- failing to note that he was an owner of the company, as reported by The Daily Beast.
In a video call between Red Strategies and Ms. Forte, Mr. Santos acted as though he was purely an intermediary who had never before met his business partners at Red Strategies, Ms. Remauro said.
"George introduced himself to them and he was like, 'pleased to meet you, blah, blah, blah,"' Ms. Remauro said. "Meanwhile, fast forward, they all worked at that company that went under!" she added, referring to Harbor City.
Over the next few months, Ms. Remauro said she grew suspicious of some of Red Strategies's practices.
Despite numerous requests to Ms. Marks, Ms. Forte was not able to get copies of monthly account or bank statements, Ms. Remauro wrote in one email, and her own paychecks were several months late.
Even more troubling, Ms. Remauro said, was the unusual way that Red Strategies appeared to be paying itself.
Under the terms of the company's agreement with Ms. Forte, Red Strategies was entitled to keep 80 percent of whatever it raised on her behalf, according to campaign documents reviewed by The Times. But Red Strategies obscured its earnings through inflated expenditures to other vendors.
In its July 2021 quarterly filing, the Forte campaign reported raising $ 42,000 -- an amount nearly nullified in a solitary $ 35,000 payment for "credit card fees" to WinRed, a fund-raising platform favored by conservatives.
But that made little sense to Ms. Remauro, who knew that WinRed typically charges clients closer to 4 percent of their fund-raising haul. Indeed, Ms. Forte would have needed to raise 20 times more than she had to merit a $ 35,000 processing fee.
The next filing showed the same pattern: $ 51,000 in "credit card fees" to WinRed, even though Ms. Forte only raised $ 86,000.
Ms. Forte, who is once again running for Congress, declined to comment.
After Ms. Remauro complained in October 2021 emails to Red Strategies, the company's filings were amended: In six months, WinRed had collected $ 6,200 in fees; Red Strategies took home more than $ 100,000.
It would not be the only time that Mr. Santos has been tied to discrepancies in WinRed fees.
Mr. Santos's own campaign reported raising $ 796,238.26 using the WinRed platform, which ought to have resulted in roughly $ 33,000 in fees, according to a Times analysis. But Mr. Santos's filings show he paid more than $ 200,000 -- a seeming overpayment of $ 173,000.
Mr. Murray said that Ms. Marks was to blame for the irregularities in Mr. Santos's and Ms. Forte's campaigns, adding that Mr. Santos was "unaware of her negligence and, in hindsight, regrets having worked, hired and partnered with Ms. Marks in every capacity."
Neither Ms. Marks nor WinRed officials returned a request seeking comment.
Red Strategies was dissolved in September 2022 for failing to file an annual report. By then Mr. Santos had moved on to another venture -- coordinating the sale of a 141-foot yacht between two of his political donors, Mayra Ruiz and Raymond Tantillo. Mr. Santos, in an interview with Semafor in December, said that he made his money by bringing interested parties together.
Although Mr. Santos has declined to comment on his involvement in the yacht sale, his lawyer on Tuesday asserted for the first time that Mr. Santos "did not act as a broker for this or any transaction."
Yet in the Semafor interview, Mr. Santos specifically mentioned a hypothetical yacht sale. "If you're looking at a $ 20 million yacht, my referral fee there can be anywhere between $ 200,000 and $ 400,000," he said. The sale of the 141-foot yacht closed in the final weeks of his winning congressional campaign.
It was around then that prosecutors said he approached Mr. Tantillo and another large donor, Andrew Intrater, with yet another opportunity.
Mr. Santos said he was raising money for a last-minute advertising blitz. But unlike previous solicitations for his campaign, this one was free of federal contribution limits because it went through a nonprofit called RedStone Strategies.
Mr. Tantillo and Mr. Intrater agreed to contribute $ 25,000 each. But prosecutors say that rather than using the money for ads, Mr. Santos spent it on credit card payments and designer clothes.
Reporting was contributed by Alexandra Berzon, Nicholas Fandos, Ken Bensinger and Michael Gold. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Reporting was contributed by Alexandra Berzon, Nicholas Fandos, Ken Bensinger and Michael Gold. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Representative George Santos of New York, above, was partners with Michael LiPetri, far left, a former state assemblyman, in one venture, an investor said. Mr. Santos and his campaign treasurer, Nancy Marks, near left, started a political consulting firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; HOWARD SCHNAPP/NEWSDAY; JAMES CARBONE/NEWSDAY); Mr. Santos coordinated the sale of a 141-foot yacht, now called Neverland, between two of his political donors. The deal closed in the final weeks of his winning congressional campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT McINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Agreements; Indictments; Investments; Consulting firms; Congressional elections; Politics; Credit card fees; Political finance

Business indexing term: Subject: Consulting firms Credit card fees

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/nyregion/george-santos-money-donors.html

Title: A Closer Look Into Santos's Schemes to Get Rich Through Politics:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 28, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842746920

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/closer-look-into-santoss-schemes-get-rich-through/docview/2842746920/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How George Santos Used Political Connections to Fuel Get-Rich Schemes

Author: Ashford, Grace

Publication info: Ashford, Grace. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-george-santos-used-political-connections-fuel/docview/2842652916/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
About a year before George Santos was elected to Congress, he and three other men approached a loyal campaign donor with a potentially lucrative opportunity.
A wealthy Polish citizen wanted to buy cryptocurrency, they said, but for reasons unclear, his fortune was frozen in a bank account. They asked the donor, a wealthy investor in his own right, for help.
The donor was immediately skeptical. He was not told the Polish citizen’s name. The men’s plan — having the donor create a limited liability company to gain access to the funds — made no sense to him.
And while they hadn’t yet asked for money, he was struck by how much their pitch resembled the classic Nigerian prince email scheme, in which a rich, potentially fictitious, foreigner asks an outsider to help free up frozen assets.
In the years since Santos first ran for the House in 2020, he has become adept at finding ways to extract money from politics. He founded a political consulting group that he marketed to other Republicans. He sought to profit from the COVID crisis, using campaign connections. And he solicited investments for and from political donors, raising ethical questions.
Santos has been charged with 13 felonies for misrepresenting his earnings, collecting $24,000 in unemployment while employed, and pocketing $50,000 he solicited from political supporters through what he claimed was a super PAC.
Santos, who has pleaded not guilty, has not been charged with personal use of campaign funds. But a review of his political career found several previously unreported examples of how he sought to use the connections he made as a candidate for public office to enrich himself.
The proposition involving the wealthy Polish national is a prime example, as Santos partnered with a former Republican state assemblyman, Michael LiPetri; and Bryant Park Associates, a company run by a Republican donor, Dominick Sartorio, according to the investor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he said his business interests would be harmed if he was publicly associated with Santos.
The interaction was so strange that the donor said he was uncertain if Santos and his partners were themselves being conned. He asked for more information but was told to first sign a nondisclosure agreement. Three of their names appeared on the agreement, which was reviewed by The New York Times. When the investor asked for changes to the nondisclosure form, the talks ended.
LiPetri, now a lobbyist at the firm Park Strategies, sought to minimize his role in the venture, saying that while he was aware of Santos’ efforts, he was not involved “in detail,” and suggested that no deals ultimately materialized.
The congressman’s lawyer, Joseph Murray, said that LiPetri had connected Santos to Bryant Park Associates, which represented the Polish citizen. “Mr. Santos only made the introductions. End of story,” Murray said, adding that he had “no information” about the Polish man’s identity.
Sartorio, a businessperson whose ventures repeatedly forced him into bankruptcy, did not return repeated requests for comment.
Santos’ actions have been scrutinized ever since the Times revealed last year that the high-powered finance career and fabulous wealth he bragged about on the campaign trail were fictional.
But sometime between his first ill-fated congressional run and the present, Santos’ grandiose stories began to come to life. He started driving a Mercedes and wearing Cartier, and made large loans to his campaign. Santos has claimed that his company, the Devolder Organization, paid him $750,000 a year, plus dividends of more than $1 million. Prosecutors have called those numbers inflated.
Santos has consistently rejected allegations of impropriety.
“I had the relationships and I started making a lot of money. I fundamentally started building wealth,” he told City and State in December, several months before his indictment. “And I decided to invest in my race for Congress. There’s nothing wrong with that — no criminal conduct, no anything of the sort.”
One of the earliest, previously unreported instances of Santos blurring his political and business interests came in July 2020, against the backdrop of COVID-driven shortages of personal protection equipment, and just six months into his first and unsuccessful bid for a House seat.
A campaign contact connected Santos to Blue Flame Medical, a new company run by Michael Gula, a Republican fundraiser from Washington, D.C., and a California-based political consultant, John Thomas. The pair had recently pivoted from politics into procurement, recognizing the tremendous market for testing kits, masks and ventilators.
Blue Flame, which claimed to have access to supplies from a partner company owned by the Chinese government, soon ran into troubles of its own, after several clients said they had not received the materials promised. Blue Flame was investigated by federal authorities, but no charges were ever brought.
A referral agreement obtained by the Times shows that Santos was signed on as a consultant with the potential to receive 10% of any deal he brought in.
Santos separated from the company shortly afterward without arranging any deals, he said through his lawyer. Blue Flame had no comment.
Nearly a year later, Santos was again looking for business opportunities after his employer, Harbor City Capital, a Florida-based investment firm, was shut down amid accusations from the Securities and Exchange Commission that it was operating as a Ponzi scheme.
Santos opened a political consulting firm with his campaign treasurer, Nancy Marks, and some Harbor City colleagues. Called Red Strategies USA, it aimed to be a one-stop shop for Republican candidates and would handle everything from bookkeeping to ad production.
One of its first clients was Tina Forte, a far-right firebrand who had developed an online following after criticizing coronavirus mandates. Santos encouraged her to run against Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., according to Forte’s former campaign manager, Jen Remauro.
Santos told Forte that he knew of a great political consulting firm, Remauro recalled, and steered her to Red Strategies — failing to note that he was an owner of the company, as reported by The Daily Beast.
In a video call between Red Strategies and Forte, Santos acted as though he was purely an intermediary who had never before met his business partners at Red Strategies, Remauro said.
“George introduced himself to them and he was like, ‘pleased to meet you, blah, blah, blah,’” Remauro said. “Meanwhile, fast forward, they all worked at that company that went under!” she added, referring to Harbor City.
Over the next few months, Remauro said she grew suspicious of some of Red Strategies’ practices.
Despite numerous requests to Marks, Forte was not able to get copies of monthly account or bank statements, Remauro wrote in one email, and her own paychecks were several months late.
Even more troubling, Remauro said, was the unusual way that Red Strategies appeared to be paying itself.
Under the terms of the company’s agreement with Forte, Red Strategies was entitled to keep 80% of whatever it raised on her behalf, according to campaign documents reviewed by the Times. But Red Strategies obscured its earnings through inflated expenditures to other vendors.
In its July 2021 quarterly filing, the Forte campaign reported raising $42,000 — an amount nearly nullified in a solitary $35,000 payment for “credit card fees” to WinRed, a fundraising platform favored by conservatives.
But that made little sense to Remauro, who knew that WinRed typically charges clients closer to 4% of their fundraising haul. Indeed, Forte would have needed to raise 20 times more than she had to merit a $35,000 processing fee.
The next filing showed the same pattern: $51,000 in “credit card fees” to WinRed, even though Forte only raised $86,000.
Forte, who is once again running for Congress, declined to comment.
After Remauro complained in October 2021 emails to Red Strategies, the company’s filings were amended: In six months, WinRed had collected $6,200 in fees; Red Strategies took home more than $100,000.
It would not be the only time that Santos has been tied to discrepancies in WinRed fees.
Santos’ own campaign reported raising $796,238.26 using the WinRed platform, which ought to have resulted in roughly $33,000 in fees, according to a Times analysis. But Santos’ filings show he paid more than $200,000 — a seeming overpayment of $173,000.
Murray said that Marks was to blame for the irregularities in Santos’ and Forte’s campaigns, adding that Santos was “unaware of her negligence and, in hindsight, regrets having worked, hired and partnered with Ms. Marks in every capacity.”
Neither Marks nor WinRed officials returned a request seeking comment.
Red Strategies was dissolved in September 2022 for failing to file an annual report. By then Santos had moved on to another venture — coordinating the sale of a 141-foot yacht between two of his political donors, Mayra Ruiz and Raymond Tantillo. Santos, in an interview with Semafor in December, said that he made his money by bringing interested parties together.
Although Santos has declined to comment on his involvement in the yacht sale, his lawyer on Tuesday asserted for the first time that Santos “did not act as a broker for this or any transaction.”
Yet in the Semafor interview, Santos specifically mentioned a hypothetical yacht sale. “If you’re looking at a $20 million yacht, my referral fee there can be anywhere between $200,000 and $400,000,” he said. The sale of the 141-foot yacht closed in the final weeks of his winning congressional campaign.
It was around then that prosecutors said he approached Tantillo and another large donor, Andrew Intrater, with yet another opportunity.
Santos said he was raising money for a last-minute advertising blitz. But unlike previous solicitations for his campaign, this one was free of federal contribution limits because it went through a nonprofit called RedStone Strategies.
Tantillo and Intrater agreed to contribute $25,000 each. But prosecutors say that rather than using the money for ads, Santos spent it on credit card payments and designer clothes.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Agreements; Fund raising; Indictments; Investments; Consulting firms; Congressional elections; Politics; Credit card fees

Business indexing term: Subject: Consulting firms Credit card fees

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Hiring And Promotion; Online Advertising; Nigeria; Workplace Environment; Stocks And Bonds; Medical Devices; Credit Cards; Hunger Strikes; Ocasio Cortez, Alexandria; Harbor City Capital Corp; Consultants; Political Advertising; House Of Representatives; Devolder Organization; Fines (Penalties); Florida; Blue Flame Medical Llc; United States; Marks, Nancy (1965 ); Thomas, John (Political Operative); Ponzi And Pyramid Schemes; Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; California; Elections, House Of Representatives; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Lobbying And Lobbyists; Project Democracy; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Railroads; Bryant Park (Manhattan, Ny); United States Politics And Government; Daily Beast, The; Redstone Strategies; Advertising And Marketing; Poland; Computers And The Internet; Shutdowns (Institutional); News And News Media; City Capital Corporation; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Tantillo, Raymond; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Securities And Exchange Commission; Washington (Dc); Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority; Campaign Finance

Title: How George Santos Used Political Connections to Fuel Get-Rich Schemes

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 27, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-27T23:46:21Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842652916

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-george-santos-used-political-connections-fuel/docview/2842652916/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kering Is Under Pressure After Executive Shake-Up: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Michael J. De La Merced; Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Michael J. De La Merced; Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kering-is-under-pressure-after-executive-shake-up/docview/2840448587/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: An activist investor is said to be pushing for change at the French conglomerate, which announced a sweeping reorganization of its top ranks this week.
Kering, the French luxury goods company that owns brands like Balenciaga, Alexander McQueen and Yves Saint Laurent, surprised the fashion industry this week when it announced a sweeping reorganization of its top ranks, including the departure of Marco Bizzarri, the longtime chief executive of Gucci, Kering's premier brand.
The move came amid a year of declining sales and stock performance. But the conglomerate run by the billionaire François-Henri Pinault is also under pressure from Bluebell Capital Partners, an activist hedge fund in London that has tangled with luxury titans before, said a person with knowledge of the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Kering declined to comment.
Activists have turned on the luxury industry in recent years. Dan Loeb's Third Point as well as Artisan Partners called for change at Richemont, the owner of jewelry brands like Cartier and Van Cleef & Arpels. But the most active recently is Bluebell, a four-year-old, $ 250 million firm that has also taken aim at Richemont and the fashion brand Hugo Boss. (Bluebell has also pushed for change at BlackRock and the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline.)
Bluebell failed to persuade fellow Richemont shareholders to add Francesco Trapani, the former chief executive of Bulgari, as a director, but the conglomerate agreed to give public investors more influence.
Bluebell has an ambitious goal for Kering. Though the hedge fund is seeking a number of changes at the conglomerate and at Gucci, it has also proposed a merger with Richemont, the person with knowledge of the discussions said.
But making the deal happen will not be easy. Richemont's founder, Johann Rupert, said in May that he was not interested in a merger -- and had rejected such a proposal two years ago. Mr. Pinault may not be interested, either. Moreover, both luxury companies are controlled by their founding families, making it nearly impossible for outside investors to prevail in corporate elections.
Bluebell is hoping that restive shareholders will join its push. Kering's stock price has been eclipsed by rivals such as Hermes and LVMH in the past year, while sales rose just 1 percent, to 5.08 billion euros (then $ 5.58 billion) in the first quarter. But Kering's stock rose more than 7 percent on Wednesday after Bloomberg first reported on Bluebell's efforts.
Photograph François-Henri Pinault This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Hedge funds; Stockholders; Shareholder activism

Business indexing term: Subject: Hedge funds Stockholders Shareholder activism

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/21/business/dealbook/luxury-kering-activist-investor.html

Title: Kering Is Under Pressure After Executive Shake-Up:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840448587

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kering-is-under-pressure-after-executive-shake-up/docview/2840448587/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Her Personal and Business Aspirations Merge: [Style Desk]

Author: Testa, Jessica

Publication info: Testa, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/her-personal-business-aspirations-merge/docview/2839627685/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sporty & Rich, a popular line of merch that promotes healthy, luxurious living, is opening its first store-spa-cafe. Next stop: colonic clubs?
There was once an Instagram account called Sporty & Rich. For a time, it served no commercial purpose. It was more of a brain tickle of pleasing images: a mood board of supermodels, interiors and advertisements, mostly from the 1980s and 1990s.
It posted vintage Range Rovers and Rolexes and Ralph Lauren -- an affluent flavor of nostalgia occasionally punctuated by more modern references, like Frank Ocean's album cover, Phoebe Philo's designs for Céline, and President Barack Obama playing basketball. When it came to sports, it favored both the sexy (an up-skirt photo of a woman playing tennis) and the ironic (Joe Namath at 70, cocooned in a fur coat at the Super Bowl).
The account, created by Emily Oberg when she was 20 years old, was a hobby. It was an expression of her personal style, which she described as "mixing high and low, like sneakers with a designer bag, in a way I think is very common and ubiquitous now." At the time, Ms. Oberg was living in an apartment in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, and working as a video personality for the media company Complex.
But hobbies do not stay hobbies for long in the modern age. As her following grew, Ms. Oberg envisioned a print magazine. She envisioned a small line of merch: simple hoodies and tote bags and hats embroidered with "Sporty & Rich." Then she began to envision a different life for herself -- one of less hustle and more leisure. She moved to Los Angeles in 2018, and now her T-shirts are printed with phrases like "Health Is Wealth!" and "Drink More Water!"
The brand has also since grown, according to its chief executive, David Obadia, into an approximately $ 30 million business.
Now 29, Ms. Oberg has returned to New York to open Sporty & Rich's first retail location. The SoHo store will not only sell her vintage-inspired activewear and graphic loungewear, but also offer two spa services: a "lymphatic sculpting" massage and a "natural face-lift" facial that targets buccal fat. Instead of mannequins in the front window, there is a large sculpture of a glass of green juice, which will be served in the store's cafe along with bone broth, smoothies and coffee imported from Los Angeles.
Soon there will be Sporty & Rich skin-care products, and Ms. Oberg said she was working on developing dietary supplements and sex toys, too. If this all sounds a little familiar, that's intentional.
"I kind of want us to be a younger person's version of Goop," Ms. Oberg said while overseeing the unpacking of the new store last week. She had just flown in from Majorca. It was an oppressive 89 degrees in New York, and she wore a chambray shirt (Ralph Lauren) tucked into white jeans (Khaite) with stiletto-heel ankle boots (the Row) and a gold watch (Cartier).
"I don't think it really matters what we make," Ms. Oberg said. "I think people just want something that's Sporty & Rich."
The Gwyneth Playbook
In the years since she moved to Los Angeles, Ms. Oberg has been open about her personal health routines and experiments. Last year she published "The Sporty & Rich Wellness Book," a $ 100 coffee-table tome of advice and artful photos of toned-and-tanned models in states of undress.
In 2020, she told The Strategist she got "colonics a lot" and recommended her favorite at-home enema kit, which she said she used with coffee instead of water. In person, she talked about getting ozone therapy from a naturopath to help treat her autoimmune disorder, Graves' disease. "That's done through the rectum," she added.
Ms. Oberg knows that "people in wellness are heavily, heavily scrutinized," she said. She knows this from being "obsessed" with the Goop founder, Gwyneth Paltrow, a fellow fan of rectal ozone therapy who courts outrage on a biannual basis (most recently for discussing liquid diets). But Ms. Oberg also speaks from personal experience.
In 2020, she apologized for an Instagram post that compared the prices of fast food and snacks to "real food." (The price of a McDonald's Happy Meal, $ 3.57, was listed next to a bag of lettuce, $ 1.99.) She had written that people "don't need to be rich to be healthy" and should "stop making excuses" -- remarks that were criticized as insensitive and ignorant of the reality of food deserts. In her apology, Ms. Oberg explained that her post "was meant for people who DO have the option to choose a healthy lifestyle, not those who have no option or choice."
More remarks by Ms. Oberg resurfaced -- a since deleted Instagram account called @notsportyrich was devoted to aggregating them -- as when she identified as a "big time" anti-vaxxer on a giggly 2019 episode of "Failing Upwards" (a shock jock fashion podcast now known as "Throwing Fits," co-hosted by her former boss at Complex).
"I think that there were a lot of people who love to hate me, for whatever reason," Ms. Oberg said.
Asked about the vaccination backlash now, Ms. Oberg said she had treated the interview as a "silly" and "stupid" conversation with friends and didn't fully understand that her comments might upset people. She is fully vaccinated against Covid-19, she said, and "would never put other people in harm by not getting a vaccine." She attributed her beliefs in part to her upbringing.
"My mom was really into natural medicine and natural remedies and eating super-healthy and being active," said Ms. Oberg, who was raised in Calgary, Alberta, which has been compared to the Texas of Canada for its large oil industry and annual Stampede rodeo. "I was vaccinated when I was a baby, but slowly over time, she became more and more skeptical."
If Ms. Oberg's mother influenced her notions about health, her father, who immigrated to Canada from the Philippines, influenced her style and taste. He was an outdoorsman, skateboarder and sneaker collector who once dressed her in baby-size Air Jordans. He valued durability and longevity in products, having worked as a letter carrier, "pounding the pavement," he said, for the last 21 years.
Ms. Oberg described her childhood as comfortable, but not particularly Rich -- "that part of the brand was very much something that I always wanted and wish I had" -- or Sporty, other than being on the badminton team in high school.
"I was just obsessed with clothes and fashion," said Ms. Oberg, who began working in retail at 14 at Canada's elevated fast-fashion chain Aritzia, as well as the department store Holt Renfrew. She left Calgary at 18 for Vancouver, then moved to New York two years later to work with Complex's new video team in New York.
Complex is perhaps best known today for "Hot Ones," a series in which celebrities answer questions while sampling progressively spicier sauces. Ms. Oberg was best known for "Get Sweaty," a series in which celebrities answered questions while working out with her, and for interviewing hypebeasts waiting in line for hours outside Supreme.
Through Complex, she became a sort of micro-celebrity, particularly among young male streetwear fans, some of whom continue to comment on her Instagram photos. A bikini shot -- headless, as her selfies frequently are -- recently yielded the comment: "Like 10 years of getting thirst trapped and I'm still here." (Ms. Oberg said these kinds of comments don't bother her: "I don't like when girls who post all these sexual photos are like, 'How dare you objectify me.' It's like, 'What do you expect?"')
Yet Ms. Oberg has largely managed to transcend the "influencer" epithet. Her personal Instagram account may be conventionally aspirational -- frequent subjects include her European travels and concave stomach -- but it's not filled with sponsored posts. In the past, she has pointed out the absurdity of the influencer industry. She told the "Failing Upwards" podcast that she once was paid $ 12,000 to post for a makeup brand. She does not typically wear makeup.
"Emily was never into fame or fortune -- that's funny to say, because that's kind of where it's at right now," her father, Deo Abesamis, said. "I always try to tell her things like, 'This can be all gone tomorrow, so enjoy your time now.' And she realizes that."
She did recently experience one unfortunate rite of passage for the rich and famous: getting burgled. While on vacation with her boyfriend (a co-founder of the activewear brand Splits59), a number of items were taken from her new Beverly Hills home. The loot included four Hermès bags (two of them Birkins) and four Chanel jackets, all of which, she said, she had bought for herself.
She was surprisingly sanguine: "At first it was very sad, but it really is just things, and they can be replaced." Though not through her insurance, she said, which expired before the break-in.
Join the Club
Before devoting herself full time to Sporty & Rich, Ms. Oberg spent most of 2017 at Kith, the streetwear brand and store, working as the women's creative lead. She saw the more traditional fashion job as her exit ramp from media. But it wasn't the right fit.
"I didn't like working in an environment where there was no respect for a work-life balance," she said. She preferred "a very, very strong balance, sometimes way more leisure than work."
"I want a very simple life," Ms. Oberg continued. "We're making clothes, you know, we're not finding cures to diseases and viruses."
She was still consulting for other brands at the time, including Harmony, a Paris-based brand that she had once covered favorably for Complex. Harmony's founder, Mr. Obadia, described himself as an experienced "product-driven guy," but "not a fantastic guy when it comes to images and marketing." The work Ms. Oberg did for Harmony was remote, but she and Mr. Obadia kept talking, and soon she flew to Paris to meet him. They began dating.
"We said 'I love you' the very first day," Ms. Oberg recalled. "It was very intense."
While living between Los Angeles and Paris, they decided to work on a Sporty & Rich product drop together. When Mr. Obadia saw thousands of preorders roll in, he realized Ms. Oberg had something he never had: a strong following. He thought he could turn Sporty & Rich into a real, serious brand, not just a mood board with occasional drops.
Mr. Obadia, now 34, said he told Ms. Oberg: "You don't know how to manufacture items, you don't know how to operate a company, you don't know how to scale a company, but you have what matters the most. You have a true vision. So I'll do my part. You do yours."
Today most of Sporty & Rich's team is based in Paris with Mr. Obadia, who formalized his role as chief executive in 2019. (Ms. Oberg is still the sole owner of company, which employs about 25 people.) While he and Ms. Oberg are now exes, they are on good terms, they both said. There have been growing pains -- Ms. Oberg's near cancellation revealed that some customers were unhappy with issues in order fulfillment, which sometimes persist, and her brusque approach to customer service, which does not. But Mr. Obadia projected revenue to be from $ 28 million to $ 32 million this year, without any investment or outside funding.
The brand just rolled out the second part of a major collaboration with Adidas, and earlier this year released a 1970s- and 1980s-inspired tennis capsule with Lacoste. Ms. Oberg and Mr. Obadia are both tennis enthusiasts -- as a child, he dreamed of going pro -- and Sporty & Rich has helped lead the tenniscore trend.
"It's health and wellness as brand messages and aesthetics," said Marian Park, a fashion strategist who runs Miscellanea Studio, and who pointed to a number of newer brands emulating the same post-gym-Princess-Diana look, stamping their athleisure with similar tennis club-inspired logos and sweeping health mantras, like "sport is medicine." "Millennials and Gen Z, we're drinking less and smoking less than boomers, and we're all scared of getting older."
Ms. Park acknowledged that Sporty & Rich stumbled during Ms. Oberg's controversies in 2020. And yet, she said, "there is a huge segment of consumers that don't care about that or don't know about that and never will. As long as they're tapping into those lifestyle conversations around wellness and sport, it's always going to do well."
Bosse Myhr, the buying director for men's and women's wear at Selfridges in London -- one of more than 150 wholesale partners that stock Sporty & Rich -- painted the average Sporty & Rich customer at Selfridges as a 20-something woman "who likes to work out, who likes to be conscious about what she eats, and wants to look cool and relevant."
Mr. Myhr, who recalled meeting Ms. Oberg at a buffet brunch at Soho House in New York, cited the if-you-know-you-know clubby feeling around the brand. "You want to feel that you're part of it," he said.
That feeling is exactly where Ms. Oberg sees the future of the brand: clubs. She imagines creating "the place I want to go to that doesn't exist" -- a wellness center with tennis courts, a pool, restaurant, spa, naturopath "and colonics," she said, laughing. "For me, it's more about the world and the lifestyle that we've created rather than the product."
"This is kind of like a preview," she continued, waving an arm around her store-cafe-mini spa, which opens on Thursday, and whose bright primary colors were inspired by Esprit stores in the 1980s -- more sporty than rich.
"At first we had a different concept where it did go that more luxury route," she said. "Then I was like, 'Wait, this is not us. This needs to feel like us.' Just, you know, childish."
Photograph From top: Emily Oberg, founder of Sporty & Rich; her enthusiasm for tennis is reflected in the brand's activewear; and Sporty & Rich's Manhattan store sells merchandise and offers spa treatments. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Personal health; Sport clothes; Celebrities; Coffee; Hobbies

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; Canada; Calgary Alberta Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/19/style/sporty-and-rich-emily-oberg.html

Title: Her Personal and Business Aspirations Merge:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 20, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2839627685

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/her-personal-business-aspirations-merge/docview/2839627685/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

People Places Things: [Style Desk]

Author: Sherman, Julia

Publication info: Sherman, Julia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/people-places-things/docview/2836148659/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The traveling culinary studio We Are Ona laid down roots in its founder Luca Pronzato's home city and invited friends to celebrate.
For the past four years, the culinary studio We Are Ona has been converting unconventional spaces around the world -- the 31st floor of a New York City office building, a tennis court in Milan, the onetime atelier of a 19th-century French photographer -- into temporary restaurants. Some operate for just a night, others for up to six months, and the studio's founder, Luca Pronzato, 31, approaches each one as an elaborate, site-specific production, relying on an international crew of chefs, artisans, designers and florists to bring his vision to life. Though he's organized 30 ticketed public pop-ups and over 500 private culinary events, he's never done the same thing twice.
Still, despite the nomadic, ever-changing nature of his business, Pronzato decided last year that We Are Ona needed a permanent home base in his native city, Paris, where he lives with his wife, Clara Cornet, 35, who works on Instagram's fashion team, and their son, Leo, 3. After securing a former taxidermist's workshop in the 10th Arrondissement, he embarked on a gut renovation to transform the space into a professional kitchen, an archive of past projects, a communal office for We Are Ona's team of 15 full-time employees and -- most important -- an atmospheric venue for hosting clients and friends. The existing finishes were removed to reveal limestone walls, floors constructed from railroad ties and original, wavy glass windows. And to give the space a modern touch, Pronzato added an all-glass enclosure that now serves as a meeting room.
Born to a Catalan mother and an Italian father, Pronzato grew up in his parents' small grocery store near the Palais-Royal and has been in the food industry ever since, doing everything from waiting tables at Parisian bistros as a teen to working front of house at Noma in Copenhagen. But, while passionate about haute cuisine, he ultimately decided to pursue a career outside of the traditional restaurant system. "I wanted to use all my knowledge of wine and service, but I didn't want to make a hierarchical restaurant," Pronzato says. "I wanted to create something that could operate horizontally, where I could enable the talent I had met over the years to express themselves in new ways."
"Ona" means "wave" in Catalan and, fittingly, We Are Ona launched its first pop-up on the beach in Caparica, Portugal, in 2019. "Our core team cooked lunch and then every night for 12 weeks we hosted a rotation of guest chefs from 12 different countries to prepare dinner," says Pronzato, who also enlisted local furniture builders and ceramists to set the scene. "On the final night of service, our team fed all of the visiting chefs a meal inspired by their menus."
In the time since, Pronzato has created a fully functional restaurant in a horse stable turned bath house in Arles and another in the artist Peter Shire's ceramics studio in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los Angeles. For a dinner celebrating Paris Design Week in 2022, We Are Ona set up amid an exhibition by the curator and collector Antoine Billore entitled "Stolen Objects From the Sea." Wavy orange tables undulated through an old metal factory surrounded by hundreds of kitschy, vintage sea creature decorations and -- in keeping with the aquatic theme -- the tasting menu featured briny tuna carpaccio served with a toasted chile oil-based salsa and raw black mullet marinated in lime.
Though far smaller in scale, the debut of We Are Ona's Paris studio, on a crisp evening in spring, felt just as significant. Pronzato arrived at the event, a dinner for 16 friends and collaborators, just hours before his guests, having come straight from Los Angeles where We Are Ona hosted a weeklong pop-up at the headquarters of Perron-Roettinger, a creative agency known for its stage design for Rihanna and Beyoncé and retail work with brands like Cartier. He was preceded by the evening's guest chefs, Sayaka Sawaguchi and Gil Nogueira, who brought with them from their restaurant in the countryside of Champagne, Le Garde Champêtre, crates of fresh scallops, produce from their garden and cartoonishly large loaves of sourdough bread. After swiftly tying on their chef's whites, they got to work searing pigeons stuffed with veal pâté, laying them in the hot pan underneath a blanket of fresh rosemary. Meanwhile, Louis-Géraud Castor, the floral artist behind the Parisian studio Castor Fleuriste, set vases of Italian poppies on the table, organizing them in a gradient from red to pale yellow.
As the sun set, friends began to trickle in, accepting glasses of celebratory champagne. The designers Sébastien Meyer, 34, and Arnaud Vaillant, 33, of Coperni, known for their fashion shows that double as performance art, were seated next to the chef Mory Sacko, 30, who recently opened a restaurant with Louis Vuitton in St.-Tropez. Kenny Duncan, 35, a sculptor, found common ground with the chef Zélikha Dinga, 34, whose old-world desserts are presented with an artist's eye. Celine Pham, 35, the chef at the restaurant Inari in Arles, was happy to occupy a seat at the table, having cooked at several We Are Ona events in the past. Behind her was an oil painting of a young woman in tears, a self-portrait by her dinner partner, the artist Inès Longevial, 32.
"It feels appropriate to share the first of many culinary experiences in our new home with so many past collaborators, surrounded by some of my favorite design creations," said Pronzato as he pointed out the custom dining table and chairs made by the German design firm E15, with whom he's worked on past events, and the cabinetry by the Dutch company Reform, another frequent collaborator. For Pronzato, one piece of furniture in the studio holds particularly symbolic significance: a resin-dipped cotton canvas chair that the Italian designer Gaetano Pesce made for Bottega Veneta's spring 2023 show. "Four hundred people sat on 400 one-of-a-kind chairs," Pronzato said. "Pesce meant it to be a statement about bringing together a multitude of voices -- it's a sentiment that's really at the heart of what we do." Here, he shares his tips for hosting a communal meal to remember.
Set the Table With Souvenirs
At We Are Ona events, accessories from past pop-ups always make an appearance, creating a sort of exquisite corpse on the table. For his event in Los Angeles the week before the Paris studio opening, Pronzato has sourced custom furniture and splatter-painted ceramics from Shire, best known for his colorful contributions to the '80s-era Memphis Group design movement. At the Paris dinner, guests drank from Shire's coffee mugs -- unpacked from Pronzato's luggage just hours before -- in lieu of water glasses. The pieces contrasted dramatically with minimalist ceramic plates and candleholders that had been custom made for a previous pop-up in Portugal.
Choose Vases That Are Practical and Pretty
Castor's single-variety floral arrangements sat in vessels made for him by the Brittany-based artist Mathilde Martin. Ceramic, he says, extends the life of cut blooms better than glass because its opacity protects the flowers' delicate stems from UV light.
Serve a Meal That Tells a Story
The chefs for the evening were far more than caterers for hire. Their relationship with We Are Ona began in 2019 when Sawaguchi, who is Japanese, and Nogueira, who is Portuguese, were guests at the studio's inaugural pop-up. Their menu celebrated both the regional terroir of Champagne, where they live and run their restaurant, and each chef's cultural background. The pigeon was finished with a miso-enriched sauce and the scallops were sprinkled with Japanese furikake. Dessert was a poached pear with a Portuguese cream mousse stained grassy green with matcha, served alongside jellied confections in the shape of crystals that were flavored with leftover champagne. "Food," says Pronzato, "should be a conversation starter."

Subject: Design; Chefs; Furniture; Restaurants; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Portugal; Los Angeles California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/t-magazine/paris-dinner-party-we-are-ona.html

Title: People Places Things:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 13, 2023

column: Entertaining With

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2836148659

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/people-places-things/docview/2836148659/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Big Dream Shifts Into Overdrive: [Correction]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-dream-shifts-into-overdrive/docview/2833500385/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Of all the many Madonna-related posts that have appeared on social media since it was revealed that the artist had been taken ill and forced to postpone her "Celebration" tour, one in particular stood out -- not just because of what it said, but because of what it showed.
It was "M" herself, sitting conspiratorially at home with a pale bearded man -- the designer Guram Gvasalia of Vetements, the subversively indie brand that upended fashion in 2014 by elevating the anti-glamorous. Mr. Gvasalia, it turned out, had been secretly working with her for the last five months on the looks for "Celebration."
"Designing your costumes was such a privilege and honor," he wrote next to the picture, adding, "now I understand why you are who you are. You are a fighter, you are an icon, you are THE QUEEN."
If the timing seemed a little self-interested -- new dates for the tour have not yet been announced -- one thing was clear: Three decades after Madonna transformed the fortunes of another designer, Jean Paul Gaultier, via her "Blond Ambition" tour, the blockbuster that made Mr. Gaultier's cone bras into a symbol of sexual rebellion and his name forever a part of pop culture history, Mr. Gvasalia is hoping that even the appearance of her imprimatur may do the same for him.
"I think it gives you certain recognition and credibility," Mr. Gvasalia said of being chosen to work with Madonna. "When she can ask anyone in the world, and people will probably do it for free and be less complicated than I am, it gives you a certain security that you've done something right. It's really a blessing."
Certainly, if the tour happens, it will introduce Mr. Gvasalia, 37, to a much wider audience. He officially took over as creative director of Vetements only in late 2021, and before that was known primarily as the business partner and younger brother of Demna, the mononymic, much feted, latterly almost canceled designer of Balenciaga. (This despite the fact that the two brothers started Vetements together and Guram was as responsible as anyone for building it into a brand with 5.2 million Instagram followers and about 400 retailers worldwide.)
Along with the new Vetements collection, released digitally last week and featuring a bounty of grandiose proportions, the Madonna seal of approval may finally move him fully out of the shadow of his brother.
Though even there, his ambition, like his clothes, is outsize and impossible to miss. He did say he had made his trousers, puffers and skirts 16 times larger than normal in part because he was "trying to understand what is the maximum oversize I can make that still looks like clothes and you can wear but nobody else can make anything bigger."
Consider the Kardashians
History, not to mention literature, is rife with stories of sibling love and rivalry. It is one of our strongest, and most fraught, bonds. While fashion has had the occasional sibling partners -- Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen of the Row; Kate and Laura Mulleavy, who founded Rodarte; Dean and Dan Caten of Dsquared2 -- never before have two siblings who started together ended up quarterbacking fashion teams that are, if not exactly playing the same game, certainly aiming for a similar league.
"You guys really misunderstand how it is," Mr. Gvasalia said, referring to the fashion media. He was sitting on the terrace of the Aman hotel in New York, drinking a Coke and wearing big black boots with barnstormer platform treads, a white gold Cartier nail bracelet, two Cartier gold chain necklaces, a diamond wedding band, a Cartier panther ring and gold grills on his teeth.
"My brother is six years older. When I'm in the second grade, he's in the eighth. He got certain opportunities in life earlier. But if you consider where I am today, where my brother was when he was my age, I think I'm far more advanced."
Mr. Gvasalia tucked his hands through the giant rips in the thighs of his oversize black jeans as if they were pockets and took a breath. He can be charming and erudite and breathtakingly ego-centric, all at the same time.
"I give you the best example that everyone can relate to," he went on: "The Kardashians. You have Kim, who is a great person -- we think she's phenomenal -- and you have Kylie. Kylie's the young generation. She's been very successful without having sex tapes, without having to go through all the things that her sister had to go through. Another example is Venus and Serena Williams. They're both fantastic. But somehow there was a point where Serena managed to kind of take over.
"I think my brother is very talented, but I have a completely different approach to things. He had his good run of 10 years, and I think his era is slowly going to its finish line. Now it is my time."
Is that why he chose to post his Madonna reveal not long after the Balenciaga couture show?
"It's just the right time for us, after the momentum from our show," he said. Then he added, "Balenciaga always releases news on the day of our show, so I feel it's only fair." "Always" may be something of an exaggeration, though he did point out, "They announced Demna's appointment on my birthday." That was true (Oct. 7, 2015) though it's a long time to carry a grudge.
Sometimes it's hard not to wonder if Mr. Gvasalia knows what he is saying -- or how it may be received -- or if he is purposely trying to roil the pot. After all, said Julie Gilhart, chief development officer and president of Tomorrow Consulting, who started following Vetements not long after its debut: "There's nothing sloppy about Guram. I sat with him once in an airport lounge and saw the way his bag was organized -- it was perfect. Everything had a place. He never stops thinking. And he is very precise."
'It's not enough to be good. I need to be very good.'
Currently the two Gvasalias are trying to keep their public selves separate. Demna dropped his surname in late 2021. Guram said he would rather I not speak to his brother for this piece. When I requested comment from Demna anyway, he declined, via a spokeswoman, to respond.
Still, it's almost impossible to disentangle their stories.
Demna and Guram were born in Sokhumi, Georgia. When Guram was 7, civil war broke out and the family fled home, leaving everything behind. They spent a month lost in the mountains before eventually making their way to Düsseldorf, Germany, where the boys grew up. (In 2021, Guram told Forbes Georgia that if his family had stayed in Georgia, "I would probably be running for president.")
"They have a shared sense of survival that makes them very disciplined and resilient," said Jean Delmas, who, along with his partner, Heidi Yang, has been working with Guram as a sales agent for almost a decade.
Parental pressure dictated that Guram, like his brother, go to business school, but he also earned a master's degree at the London College of Fashion (he wrote his thesis on Martin Margiela), with after-school stints at Burberry and Selfridges. In 2012, he self-published a book called "Size Zero: A Guide to Spiritual Management" about "how you need to get rid of everything in your head and just listen to your heart." Two years later, he joined forces with his brother, who had been working at Margiela and Louis Vuitton, to start Vetements.
They decided to frame their new label as a "collective" because, Guram said, "we didn't want to put ourselves out there. It was always just about making the clothes and making what we felt was right." If pressed, they would say Demna was the creative one, and Guram the businessman.
"Everyone was kind of doing everything," Guram said. "You're a designer, a manager, a cleaning person; everything."
"No one really knew what was going on," Ms. Gilhart said. "But anyone who knew anything about the business knew Guram was a big part of it. He hears and sees everything."
Vetements detonated in the fashion world so effectively that in 2015, Demna was hired at Balenciaga. The next year, Guram
relocated to Zurich, along with the business -- a decision he said was less related to taxes than to the desire to get away from the fashion establishment. Zurich is German-speaking; German is one of the four languages he speaks fluently (the others are Georgian, Russian and English, though he is also pretty capable in French and Italian).
Demna and his husband soon followed, but by 2019, Demna announced he was leaving Vetements to focus his attention on Balenciaga; he has since left Zurich for Geneva.
"I find the world has for me completely different expectations than from everyone else," Guram said of the pressure he now feels. "The moment I do something, the bar is really super high. Because we changed the industry, because we were so shocking. And because my brother has a big name and has done a lot of things. Having him in my life puts more challenge on me. You know, it's not enough to be good. I need to be very good."
Lagerfeld dreams
According to Mr. Delmas, the move to designer was less of a leap for Mr. Gvasalia than the popular narrative may make it seem. "Even when Demna was there, Guram would edit the line," Mr. Delmas said. He would "add some pieces to what was in the showroom. He has a good idea of what is viable commercially."
Still, Mr. Gvasalia has begun to differentiate his Vetements, focusing more on tailoring and luxury fabrics. It is certainly priced like a luxury brand, with leather coats between $ 3,000- $ 10,000, and dresses that can run from a few thousand to more than $ 75,000. "The styling seems more involved, the fashion seems a little more high-concept," said Noah Johnson, the global style director of GQ, who said he was beginning to wonder if "maybe he was the mastermind of Vetements all along."
The most recent collection, Mr. Gvasalia's third, was rife with Easter eggs that reflect his dreams, goals and hangups. Alongside the acres of puddling denim paired with narrow corsetry and swaddling down were two very long, very Chanel-like coat dresses, shown over jeans, a nod to Karl Lagerfeld, whose longevity in fashion made him a role model for Mr. Gvasalia.
Also included: a choker necklace with an "M" at the front, a relic of his work with Madonna (she wore a similar necklace in an Instagram post in May). And a group of bell-shaped gowns with skirts six meters in diameter, integral gloves and face masks that, as Nicole Phelps wrote for Vogue Runway, bore a marked resemblance to the bell-shaped dresses Demna made for a Balenciaga show in 2019, spliced with the full-coverage bodysuit Balenciaga gown Kim Kardashian wore to the Met Gala in 2021.
"Those dresses, they're much, much smaller," Mr. Gvasalia said of the Balenciaga looks. "They have a completely different construction. And honestly, I think all the brands in the world have done these kinds of dresses. I also think if you look at them next to each other, ours are much better."
'There is still something coming.'
Mr. Gvasalia has spent the last five months hopping back and forth from his headquarters in Zurich to showrooms in Paris to New York, where Madonna is based.
In Zurich, he lives in a house on a lake just outside the city with his partner of almost 10 years, a Russian-raised entertainment mogul who asked to remain anonymous but has pitched in with the Vetements business so Mr. Gvasalia can concentrate more on the creative side. They also have an apartment on the Avenue George V in Paris, just across the street from the Four Seasons hotel (where his parents stay when they are in town) and up the street from the Balenciaga couture salons. They are, Mr. Gvasalia said, "perfect" together.
When Mr. Gvasalia comes to see Madonna in New York, he stays at the Aman. He does not collect art, but he does collect very high-end watches (Patek Philippe, Audemars Piguet) as well as Hermès bags ("all in croc"); vintage Margiela, Gaultier and Montana; and nice cars. (His current ride of choice is a Rolls-Royce SUV.)
For years Mr. Gvasalia was very shy and refused to have his picture taken, Mr. Delmas said, but recently he has done something of an about-face, creating a public persona -- much as Karl Lagerfeld did -- that involves sweeping leathers with jutting shoulders and cinched waists, giant ripped black jeans, giant T-shirts, black shades and lots of jewelry.
He also acquired some custom-made grills from a dentist turned jeweler in New York whom he called the No. 1 grill person in the world. "He's from Israel but moved to New York and couldn't get his license," Mr. Gvasalia said. "He started to see rappers wearing the golden teeth, but the quality was horrible, so he said 'Oh, I'll make it properly for you.' He does grills for Pharrell, Madonna."
Mr. Gvasalia designed his to match his watches: a white and rose gold set to go with his white and rose gold Patek Nautilus. He likes the grills because they are not permanent, but, he said, "they add to the look, especially in summer, when you just have a T-shirt on."
During the January men's collections, show goers began noticing Mr. Gvasalia everywhere: in front rows and at clubs, in Daily Mail celebrity gossip columns holding hands with Avril Lavigne. He is friends with J Balvin, whom he met about a year ago when Mr. Balvin DM'd him on Instagram. Now, Mr. Balvin said, they text almost every day and "spend hours talking about fashion, watches, music and traveling -- gossiping."
Still, he often works until 5 or 6 in the morning, returning again at 10 a.m. His most recent show was the second most viewed spring 2024 men's collection on Voguerunway.com, coming in just after Vuitton and just before Prada. Mr. Gvasalia is, Vogue wrote, "on a roll." (Not long after, Beyoncé posted a photo of herself on Instagram in a pair of Vetements jeans.) According to Freddy Barassi, the vice president for men's wear at Ssense, it has stocked Vetements since 2015 and seen double-digit growth each season.
Next year will be Vetements' 10th anniversary. Mr. Gvasalia has plans. They are, characteristically, not small.
"Looking at people my age now, I'm not sure who is the competition," he said. "I had dinner yesterday with Sam Worthington. You know, the actor from 'Avatar.' I said, 'Sam, do you think you've had your biggest movie yet?' and he said, 'No, I think it's still coming.' And I feel for me, there is still something coming very big. I would not take a job today somewhere else. But one day if Chanel comes? I would not say no."
Photograph The designer Guram Gvasalia of Vetements is ambitious and competitive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CEDRINE SCHEIDIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1); From top: the designer Guram Gvasalia of Vetements; Mr. Gvasalia and Madonna working on the costumes for her coming tour; a watch and some jewelry from Mr. Gvasalia's collection; and jewelry from the Vetements showroom. Left, looks from Vetements's spring 2024 collection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CEDRINE SCHEIDIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; RICARDO GOMES; GIO STAINO/VETEMENTS) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Fashion; Singers

Location: United States--US; Georgia

Company / organization: Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490

Title: A Big Dream Shifts Into Overdrive:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 6, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2833500385

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-dream-shifts-into-overdrive/docview/2833500385/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Paul Ickovic, Photographer as Vibrant as Streets He Roamed, Dies at 79: [Biography]

Author: Green, Penelope

Publication info: Green, Penelope. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/paul-ickovic-photographer-as-vibrant-streets-he/docview/2829358550/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: His camera captured the variety of the human experience, but changing tastes in photography kept him from the acclaim he sought -- as did his own idiosyncrasies.
Paul Ickovic, a peripatetic photographer whose sensuous black-and-white portraits and evocative images of street life captured in India, Nepal and Cuba, as well as European cities like Paris and Prague, harked back to the heyday of street photography at midcentury, died on May 23 at his home in Prague. He was 79.
His brother, Thomas Ickovic, said the cause was heart failure.
Mr. Ickovic (pronounced ick-OH-vick) was not a household name, nor was he a particularly prolific photographer. But he loved the variety of the human experience, and he loved women, and he pursued both with energy and considerable charm. The camera was his way to do so. His looks were an asset: Craggy-faced and twinkly-eyed, he was often compared to Keith Richards.
His approach was often likened to that of his hero, Henri Cartier-Bresson, and others whose notion of "the decisive moment" shaped modern street photography and the photojournalism that flourished in the 1940s, '50s and '60s. Grace Glueck, writing in The New York Times, called him "a wonderfully old-style photographer."
"Mr. Ickovic happened to be there when a woman, naked but for a showy necklace and a wisp of a bikini that pointed up her extravagant flab, strode defiantly along a bank of the Seine as a lone male spectator gazed impassively," Ms. Glueck wrote in reviewing a show of Mr. Ickovic's work at a Chelsea gallery in 2005. "Through the window of a Paris Metro car speeding from the station he took a mysterious, apparitional silhouette of a man in a sinister hat, one hand balancing a cane. (It's aptly titled 'The Phantom.') When a friend came to tea and impulsively donned a rabbit mask owned by Mr. Ickovic, the photographer quickly grabbed his camera for an 'Alice in Wonderland' sendup, enhanced by a baffled cat as a spectator."
The Cartier-Bresson approach, said Robert Klein, Mr. Ickovic's longtime gallerist, also involved the geometry embedded in a good photo. "You find a background that will be your foundation and wait for something to happen in front of it," Mr. Klein said by phone. "Paul did that intuitively. But unlike Cartier-Bresson" -- whose habit was to stay invisible, even hiding his camera -- "Paul wanted and needed to connect with people.
"Photography," Mr. Klein continued, "was a way to know them, and know himself. He might take a photo surreptitiously, but then he'd make friends with the subject."
As Mr. Ickovic told The Times in 1991, "I had tried to be a journalist, but I was distracted by what was going on in the alley beside me."
Critics and curators knew him as much for his outsize personality as for his work: He was gregarious, bombastic, guileless and opportunistic, irresistible and thoroughly maddening, with a taste for the good life that far outweighed his assets. Those assets were usually nil, according to Mr. Klein, who described him as a lovable beggar and a skilled haggler. Because of his impulsiveness, he said, Mr. Ickovic "was always shooting himself in the foot."
There was the time he decided to burn all his negatives in his brother's fireplace, as a way to boost the value of his work. "He quickly realized that was a stupid idea," his brother recalled, "and sifted through the ashes to retrieve the negatives. Believe it or not, quite a few survived."
Even so, there is still very little of his work available, Mr. Klein said, "because he often couldn't find his negatives to make prints, or he wouldn't have the money to make prints, or if he did, he'd barter them for something else. I once lent him money for shoes, and he spent it on a wallet as a gift for me. If he showed up for a visit, his car would be dead, and I'd have to pay to fix it to get rid of him."
Another time, Mr. Klein advanced him money for pictures he had sold for him at an art fair in the Hamptons, and Mr. Ickovic spent it all on a fancy watch, which he gave to Mr. Klein. And he once financed a trip to Cuba by selling his camera, which meant no pictures to bring home. (On his Cuba trips, he invariably brought women's lingerie with him, which he would use to barter for hotel rooms, meals and other favors.)
Mr. Ickovic lived, among many places, in Plainfield, Vt.; Amherst, Mass.; Boston; and Sag Harbor, N.Y. But wherever he landed, he would quickly fall behind in his rent or wear out his welcome as a guest of friends. When a landlord in Sag Harbor gave him the heave-ho, he moved into a storage unit, showering in an office building that kept its doors unlocked at night. That arrangement worked for a few months, until the cameras at the storage facility caught up with him.
But his work speaks for itself. His photographs are in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the International Center of Photography in New York; the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington; the National Gallery in Prague; and the Bibliothèque Nationale de France in Paris.
Mr. Ickovic nevertheless always struggled, tripped up by his own idiosyncrasies -- but also, Mr. Klein said, by an evolving market in photography. "Even as early as the 1970s," he said, "tastes had changed, and made the work of a romantic street photographer like Paul obsolete."
Pavel David Ickovic was born on March 16, 1944, in Kettering, England. His Czechoslovakian parents, Eugene Ickovic, a chemist, and Vera Mandl, met at a dance in London. Vera, born to a wealthy Jewish family in Prague, had been sent to England to escape the German occupation; she was training to be a nurse to aid in the war effort. Eugene was on leave from the Czech Brigade, which was fighting alongside the British Army. Most of their family members would die in concentration camps.
After the war the Ickovics returned to Czechoslovakia, where Eugene opened a pharmaceutical factory in Karlovy Vary, before emigrating to Bogotá, Colombia, where he opened several factories and the family grew wealthy. After a military coup in Colombia in 1953, the family fled to Montreal and then to Forest Hills, Queens, with the help of a cousin.
Paul studied music at Queens College before dropping out and traveling to Nepal and India in the late 1960s, flush with $ 1,000 his parents had given him (the equivalent of nearly $ 10,000 in today's dollars). The New York street and fashion photographer Louis Faurer had been a mentor to him in New York, and at some point on that trip Mr. Ickovic picked up a camera and began to record what he saw on his travels.
Back home in the 1970s, he met Mr. Cartier-Bresson -- Mr. Ickovic was working briefly for the Boston publisher of Mr. Cartier-Bresson's work -- and they became friends and traded photographs. This would prove helpful later: Mr. Cartier-Bresson's photos and letters gave Mr. Ickovic a bit of a nest egg.
In addition to his brother, Mr. Ickovic is survived by two sons: Nicholas Ickovic, from his second marriage, to Simona Zborilova, a model, which ended in divorce; and Cristian Sanders, from his relationship with Karin Sanders, a gallerist. His first marriage, to Sarah Stahl, also ended in divorce.
Over the years Mr. Ickovic published a number of books of his photography, notably "Kafka's Grave and Other Stories" (1986), which had an introduction by the playwright David Mamet. That book was produced with the help of Joshua Ginsberg, an entrepreneur and environmental scientist who became a friend and patron.
In the summer of 2021, the Bibliothèque Nationale showed a retrospective of Mr. Ickovic's work in tandem with a larger show of Mr. Cartier-Bresson's photographs. Mr. Ginsberg published the catalog of his friend's show, which was called "In Transit."
Mr. Ickovic said he was a little annoyed, Mr. Ginsberg recalled, that "Henri got three rooms" but "I only got one."
Photograph Paul Ickovic in 2012. Changing tastes in photography kept him from the acclaim he sought -- as did his own idiosyncrasies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN MORSE); A 1980 shot in Prague demonstrated Mr. Ickovic's ability to wait for the right subject to appear.; "Double Chambermaid," taken in Prague in 1990. One reviewer called him "wonderfully old-style."; A mysterious, apparitional figure seen though the window of a Paris Metro car in 1964.; A masked friend, and a baffled cat, helped Mr. Ickovic create an "Alice in Wonderland" sendup. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL ICKOVIC/ROBERT KLEIN GALLERY) This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Photographers; Photography; Deaths

People: Ickovic, Paul

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/24/arts/paul-ickovic-dead.html

Title: Paul Ickovic, Photographer as Vibrant as Streets He Roamed, Dies at 79:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2829358550

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/paul-ickovic-photographer-as-vibrant-streets-he/docview/2829358550/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Relying on Those Who Know the Arctic Best: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Onishi, Norimitsu; Stuart-Ulin, Nasuna

Publication info: Onishi, Norimitsu; Stuart-Ulin, Nasuna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/relying-on-those-who-know-arctic-best/docview/2822019209/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A moon dog hung low over the horizon. It showed up on the first day of the Canadian soldiers' patrol, and the Inuit rangers guiding them in the country's far north spotted it right away: Ice crystals in the clouds were bending the light, making two illusory moons appear in the sky.
It meant a storm was coming, despite the forecast of fair weather. The Inuit rangers told the platoon to pitch their tents and hunker down.
"If it gets worse, we're going to be stranded," said John Ussak, one of the Inuit rangers, recalling how the soldiers wanted to keep going, but backed down. They awoke to a blizzard.
Canada is now on a mission to assert its hold on its Arctic territory, an enormous stretch that was once little more than an afterthought.
As Russia and China focus greater attention on the region's military and commercial potential, Canada's armed forces are under pressure to understand the Arctic's changing climate, how to survive there and how to defend it.
The contest is a global one, with the American secretary of state, Antony J. Blinken, having paid a five-day visit to Northern Europe last week to rally allies against Russian and Chinese ambitions in the Arctic.
Canada's mission to secure the Arctic means relying more heavily on the Inuit, the only people who have lived in this austere part of the world for thousands of years, keeping watch over the country's vast, isolated stretches in the far north.
It also means dredging into the country's colonial past, changing hard-wired ways of thinking and undoing generations of mistrust. The Canadian government has a long and ugly history of abusing the Inuit, including misleading families into moving to the High Arctic to cement its hold on the territory during the Cold War and refusing to let them leave.
But in recent years, Canada has embarked on a wide-ranging attempt to come to terms with and atone for its colonial history. Efforts to secure Indigenous Canadians' rightful place in the country have filtered through different levels of governments, schools, the arts and business.
Canada is also focusing on the most intractable element of post-colonial relationships -- people's way of thinking -- by emphasizing learning from the Indigenous. On Arctic patrols, that brings practical benefits.
"Leaders need to show humility and understand it's more important to acknowledge what you don't know than what you do know," said Maj. Brynn Bennett, the army commander who led the patrol in March with the Inuit rangers, part of a military exercise called Operation Nanook-Nunalivut.
Before the soldiers ever landed in Rankin Inlet, the hurdles were clear. Like nearly all other Canadians, most had never been this far north.
Military exercises between the Inuit rangers and the army have been held for decades, but the stakes have gotten higher as the world's superpowers vie for pre-eminence in an Arctic made more accessible by climate change.
Russia is rapidly building up its military and partnering on commercial ventures with China, as thawing ice provides access to vast natural resources below the Arctic sea floor and unlocks new shipping lanes. Even Canada's closest ally, the United States, disputes Canadian claims of sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.
While the exercise took place on uncontested Canadian territory, it is also part of a broader effort to build up Canada's military capacity in the Arctic and to fend off any potential rival claims on the increasingly navigable waterways.
The Inuit rangers' advice to delay the patrol -- and, more than anything else, Major Bennet's deference to them -- not only shielded the seven Inuit rangers and nearly 40 soldiers from a blizzard, but cemented the authority of the Inuit in a region that continues to confound outsiders.
It was not always the case.
Around Rankin Inlet, a small subarctic town on the west coast of Hudson Bay, stories passed down for generations speak of Inuit advice and help offered, and refused, by explorers and whalers marooned on Marble Island, about 30 miles off the coast.
"My mom talked about it, even though I told her I didn't want to hear about the past, because it really hurts me," said Marianne Hapanak, 51, who has been a ranger for 24 years. "Our elders tried to help the white people," she added. "Why didn't they accept our help?"
"Maybe just to act tough?" she said.
With about 3,000 people, Rankin Inlet is the second most populated town in Nunavut, a Canadian territory nearly three times the size of Texas with a population of only 40,000 people, most of them Inuit.
For centuries, European colonial powers led expeditions in search of a Northwest Passage -- a shorter and faster sea route between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans through the labyrinth of islands and waterways in Canada's Arctic.
In 1905, a Norwegian man, Roald Amundsen -- who went to live among the Inuit to learn how to survive in the Arctic -- became the first European explorer to cross the Northwest Passage. But some of the doomed efforts, most famously the Franklin Expedition, have become parables of colonial cluelessness: European explorers who died of scurvy by rejecting the Inuit's vitamin-rich diet of raw meat or after ignoring the Inuit and getting lost.
Harry Ittinuar, 59, a former Inuit ranger who used to run boat tours to Marble Island, grew up listening to stories of outsiders stranded on the island, including James Knight, an 18th-century English explorer who was shipwrecked with his crew after failing to find the Northwest Passage.
"One of the stories I heard, they knew one crew was struggling, so they went over in winter by dog team," said Mr. Ittinuar of the Inuit.
"When they were able to cross the ice, they offered them help and food, but the sailors refused to eat seal, walrus, whale or caribou, or whatever was offered to them," Mr. Ittinuar added. "That was their demise."
Some Inuit rangers say they have noticed a change in mind-set among the soldiers coming from "down south."
"They're more respectful now," said Mr. Ussak, 47, who has been a ranger for two decades. "Our culture is a big part of being a ranger because we teach our knowledge in exercises like this. We teach them what we learned from our ancestors."
The Inuit rangers who participated in the recent patrol are among 5,000 Canadian Rangers, part-time reservists in the Canadian Armed Forces. Above the tree line where it gets too cold for trees to survive, most of the rangers are Inuit.
With Canada's military refashioning its relations with the Inuit by tapping into local knowledge, Canadian soldiers are heading north better prepared for the patrols, according to Inuit rangers.
Jack Kabvitok, 83, an Inuit who served as a ranger in the 1990s, recalled how soldiers occasionally arrived without the proper gear for temperatures that drop to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit in winter.
"They didn't want to shoot their rifles because they didn't want to touch the steel," Mr. Kabvitok said. "They didn't have coats or boots for up here. When they were few, we could deal with them. We would give them our clothes because we carry extra clothes all the time when we go hunting."
Before their patrol, the soldiers trained at Petawawa, a base in Ontario. They practiced driving snowmobiles and built traditional Inuit sleds called qamutik. Despite an unusually brutal cold snap at the Ontario base, landing in Rankin Inlet was a shock to some.
"There's winter all over Canada, and you think you know it until you come to a place where you don't see any trees, just tundra," said Corp. Simon Cartier, 30, from Montreal. "And if it wasn't for the buildings, you'd probably feel like you're on another planet."
At their base in Rankin Inlet, the soldiers spent a day fixing their qamutiks, which the Inuit rangers immediately noted were inadequate for the subarctic. As the soldiers and Inuit rangers headed out on their five-day patrol, the weather, at least, looked favorable.
"We thought we were going to have good weather for the week based on the forecast," Major Bennett said.
But on the first day, a soldier had to be evacuated after slipping and twisting an ankle. Continuing problems with the qamutiks forced the soldiers and Inuit rangers to set up camp about midway to their destination, in Chesterfield Inlet, a hamlet 60 miles northeast.
Then later that evening, the moon dog, a rare optical illusion, emerged low over the horizon.
When the Inuit rangers woke up the next morning -- to the blizzard that made it impossible to see beyond 600 feet -- they also saw a sun dog, a similar optical phenomenon that often precedes bad weather.
The oldest and most experienced Inuit ranger, Gerard Maktar, 65, and Mr. Ussak went to a morning briefing with the army leaders. Mr. Ussak said he met some pushback when he advised the soldiers to stay put until the weather cleared.
Lt. Erica Rogers, 29, a soldier from Toronto, acknowledged that there was initial skepticism of the warning from the Inuit rangers.
"We were going, well, it's not that cold, we can still go out -- if we were back in Petawawa, we would go out," she said.
The delay prevented the soldiers from reaching their destination, but Major Bennet considered the patrol a success. His soldiers learned much from the Inuit, including building igloos, deciphering the meaning of snowdrifts, ice fishing, hunting and butchering caribou -- and observing the moon dog and sun dog.
He added that his advice to the commander of the patrol after his was "Listen to Gerard" -- referring to the elder Inuit ranger.
At the height of the Cold War in the 1950s, the Canadian government asserted its presence in the Arctic, not by listening to the Inuit, but by using them as human pawns. Officials misled 92 Inuit into relocating far away from families and long-established communities to uninhabited areas in the High Arctic where they found little food, 24-hour darkness in winter and an unfamiliar life that contributed to depression and alcoholism.
The Inuit rangers in the patrol said they believed that the joint mission would help Canada's defense of its great north, though they said they did not want to be embroiled in a larger conflict.
"I wouldn't want to go to war," Ms. Hapanak said.
Even as Canada tries to up its game in the Arctic, Ms. Hapanak observed that the soldiers had a lot to learn -- a point made clear with the start of the second patrol, a new group of 36 Canadian reservists and 10 British rangers.
As novices, they drove their snowmobiles slowly, taking more than three hours to reach a shooting range only six miles north of the base. One soldier had flipped on the side.
The soldiers started pitching their tents as it became clear they would have to set up camp just on the outskirts of Rankin Inlet.
"Boring!" said Ms. Hapanak, who had hoped to make more headway.
The Inuit rangers killed time. Mr. Maktar sculpted a miniature igloo out of the hard snow. Two bulky, middle-aged men played tag.
Ms. Hapanak singled out one British ranger who was wearing a light coat and kept making big, rapid circles with his arms to stay warm.
"I tried asking him, 'Where's your big coat?"' Ms. Hapanak said. "'I'll be good,' he said."
"Trying to act tough, I guess."
Photograph A sun dog, a phenomenon the Inuit say is a predictor of bad weather, in the Rankin Inlet, Canada. (A1); Members of the first patrol for Operation Nanook-Nunalivut with a qamutik, an Inuit sled, after it was repaired. (A12); Above, Inuit rangers on patrol. From top right: Canadian Army reservists camping in Quebec; Marianne Hapanak cooking lunch for fellow rangers; the aurora borealis near the Rankin Inlet. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NASUNA STUART-ULIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12-A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13.

Subject: Explorers; Ice; Military personnel; Armed forces; Inuit

Location: China; Northwest Passage; Russia; Arctic region; Canada

Company / organization: Name: Inuit Tribe; NAICS: 921150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/03/world/canada/canada-military-arctic-climate.html

Title: Relying on Those Who Know the Arctic Best:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2822019209

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/relying-on-those-who-know-arctic-best/docview/2822019209/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Raw Meat and Moon Signs: Inuit Lessons for Soldiers in the Arctic

Author: Onishi, Norimitsu

Publication info: Onishi, Norimitsu. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/raw-meat-moon-signs-inuit-lessons-soldiers-arctic/docview/2821984029/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
RANKIN INLET, Canada — A moon dog hung low over the horizon. It showed up on the first day of the Canadian soldiers’ patrol, and the Inuit rangers guiding them in the country’s far north spotted it right away: Ice crystals in the clouds were bending the light, making two illusory moons appear in the sky.
It meant a storm was coming, despite the forecast of fair weather. The Inuit rangers told the platoon to pitch their tents and hunker down.
“If it gets worse, we’re going to be stranded,” said John Ussak, one of the Inuit rangers, recalling how the soldiers wanted to keep going but backed down. They awoke to a blizzard.
Canada is on a mission to assert its hold on its Arctic territory, an enormous stretch that was once little more than an afterthought.
As Russia and China focus greater attention on the region’s military and commercial potential, Canada’s armed forces are under pressure to understand the Arctic’s changing climate, how to survive there and how to defend it.
The contest is a global one, with the American secretary of state, Antony Blinken, having paid a five-day visit to Northern Europe last week to rally allies against Russian and Chinese ambitions in the Arctic.
Canada’s mission to secure the Arctic means relying more heavily on the Inuit, the only people who have lived in this austere part of the world for thousands of years, keeping watch over the country’s vast, isolated stretches in the far north.
It also means dredging into the country’s colonial past, changing hard-wired ways of thinking and undoing generations of mistrust. The Canadian government has a long and ugly history of abusing the Inuit, including misleading families into moving to the High Arctic to cement its hold on the territory during the Cold War and refusing to let them leave.
But in recent years, Canada has embarked on a wide-ranging attempt to come to terms with and atone for its colonial history. Efforts to secure Indigenous Canadians’ rightful place in the country have filtered through different levels of governments, schools, the arts and business.
Canada is also focusing on the most intractable element of postcolonial relationships — people’s way of thinking — by emphasizing learning from the Indigenous. On Arctic patrols, that brings practical benefits.
“Leaders need to show humility and understand it’s more important to acknowledge what you don’t know than what you do know,” said Maj. Brynn Bennett, the army commander who led the patrol in March with the Inuit rangers, part of a military exercise called Operation Nanook-Nunalivut.
Before the soldiers ever landed in Rankin Inlet, the hurdles were clear. Like nearly all other Canadians, most had never been this far north.
Military exercises between the Inuit rangers and the army have been held for decades, but the stakes have gotten higher as the world’s superpowers vie for preeminence in an Arctic made more accessible by climate change.
Russia is rapidly building up its military and partnering on commercial ventures with China, as thawing ice provides access to vast natural resources below the Arctic sea floor and unlocks new shipping lanes. Even Canada’s closest ally, the United States, disputes Canadian claims of sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.
While the exercise took place on uncontested Canadian territory, it is also part of a broader effort to build up Canada’s military capacity in the Arctic and to fend off any potential rival claims on the increasingly navigable waterways.
The Inuit rangers’ advice to delay the patrol — and, more than anything else, Bennet’s deference to them — not only shielded the seven Inuit rangers and nearly 40 soldiers from a blizzard but also cemented the authority of the Inuit in a region that continues to confound outsiders.
It was not always the case.
Around Rankin Inlet, a small subarctic town on the west coast of Hudson Bay, stories passed down for generations speak of Inuit advice and help offered, and refused, by explorers and whalers marooned on Marble Island, about 30 miles off the coast.
“My mom talked about it, even though I told her I didn’t want to hear about the past, because it really hurts me,” said Marianne Hapanak, 51, who has been a ranger for 24 years. “Our elders tried to help the white people,” she added. “Why didn’t they accept our help?
“Maybe just to act tough?” she said.
With about 3,000 people, Rankin Inlet is the second most populated town in Nunavut, a Canadian territory nearly three times the size of Texas with a population of only 40,000 people, most of them Inuit.
For centuries, European colonial powers led expeditions in search of a Northwest Passage — a shorter and faster sea route between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans through the labyrinth of islands and waterways in Canada’s Arctic.
In 1905, a Norwegian man, Roald Amundsen — who went to live among the Inuit to learn how to survive in the Arctic — became the first European explorer to cross the Northwest Passage. But some of the doomed efforts — most famously, the Franklin Expedition — have become parables of colonial cluelessness: European explorers who died of scurvy by rejecting the Inuit’s vitamin-rich diet of raw meat or after ignoring the Inuit and getting lost.
Harry Ittinuar, 59, a former Inuit ranger who used to run boat tours to Marble Island, grew up listening to stories of outsiders stranded on the island, including James Knight, an 18th-century English explorer who was shipwrecked with his crew after failing to find the Northwest Passage.
“One of the stories I heard — they knew one crew was struggling, so they went over in winter by dog team,” said Ittinuar of the Inuit.
“When they were able to cross the ice, they offered them help and food, but the sailors refused to eat seal, walrus, whale or caribou, or whatever was offered to them,” Ittinuar added. “That was their demise.”
Some Inuit rangers say they have noticed a change in mindset among the soldiers coming from “down south.”
“They’re more respectful now,” said Ussak, 47, who has been a ranger for two decades. “Our culture is a big part of being a ranger because we teach our knowledge in exercises like this. We teach them what we learned from our ancestors.”
The Inuit rangers who participated in the recent patrol are among 5,000 Canadian Rangers, part-time reservists in the Canadian armed forces. Above the tree line where it gets too cold for trees to survive, most of the rangers are Inuit.
With Canada’s military refashioning its relations with the Inuit by tapping into local knowledge, Canadian soldiers are heading north better prepared for the patrols, according to Inuit rangers.
Jack Kabvitok, 83, an Inuit who served as a ranger in the 1990s, recalled how soldiers occasionally arrived without the proper gear for temperatures that drop to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit in winter.
“They didn’t want to shoot their rifles because they didn’t want to touch the steel,” Kabvitok said. “They didn’t have coats or boots for up here. When they were few, we could deal with them. We would give them our clothes because we carry extra clothes all the time when we go hunting.”
Before their patrol, the soldiers trained at Petawawa, a base in Ontario. They practiced driving snowmobiles and built traditional Inuit sleds called qamutik. Despite an unusually brutal cold snap at the Ontario base, landing in Rankin Inlet was a shock to some.
“There’s winter all over Canada, and you think you know it until you come to a place where you don’t see any trees, just tundra,” said Corp. Simon Cartier, 30, from Montreal. “And if it wasn’t for the buildings, you’d probably feel like you’re on another planet.”
At their base in Rankin Inlet, the soldiers spent a day fixing their qamutiks, which the Inuit rangers immediately noted were inadequate for the subarctic. As the soldiers and Inuit rangers headed out on their five-day patrol, the weather, at least, looked favorable.
“We thought we were going to have good weather for the week based on the forecast,” Bennett said.
But on the first day, a soldier had to be evacuated after slipping and twisting an ankle. Continuing problems with the qamutiks forced the soldiers and Inuit rangers to set up camp about midway to their destination, in Chesterfield Inlet, a hamlet 60 miles northeast.
Then later that evening, the moon dog, a rare optical illusion, emerged low over the horizon.
When the Inuit rangers woke up the next morning — to the blizzard that made it impossible to see beyond 600 feet — they also saw a sun dog, a similar optical phenomenon that often precedes bad weather.
The oldest and most experienced Inuit ranger, Gerard Maktar, 65, and Ussak went to a morning briefing with the army leaders. Ussak said he met some pushback when he advised the soldiers to stay put until the weather cleared.
Lt. Erica Rogers, 29, a soldier from Toronto, acknowledged that there was initial skepticism of the warning from the Inuit rangers.
“We were going, well, it’s not that cold; we can still go out. If we were back in Petawawa, we would go out,” she said.
The delay prevented the soldiers from reaching their destination, but Bennet considered the patrol a success. His soldiers learned much from the Inuit, including building igloos, deciphering the meaning of snowdrifts, ice fishing, hunting and butchering caribou — and observing the moon dog and sun dog.
He added that his advice to the commander of the patrol after his was “Listen to Gerard” — referring to the elder Inuit ranger.
At the height of the Cold War in the 1950s, the Canadian government asserted its presence in the Arctic — not by listening to the Inuit, but by using them as human pawns. Officials misled 92 Inuit into relocating far away from families and long-established communities to uninhabited areas in the High Arctic where they found little food, 24-hour darkness in winter and an unfamiliar life that contributed to depression and alcoholism.
The Inuit rangers in the patrol said they believed that the joint mission would help Canada’s defense of its great north, though they said they did not want to be embroiled in a larger conflict.
“I wouldn’t want to go to war,” Hapanak said.
Even as Canada tries to up its game in the Arctic, Hapanak observed that the soldiers had a lot to learn — a point made clear with the start of the second patrol, a new group of 36 Canadian reservists and 10 British rangers.
As novices, they drove their snowmobiles slowly, taking more than three hours to reach a shooting range only 6 miles north of the base. One soldier had flipped on the side.
The soldiers started pitching their tents as it became clear they would have to set up camp just on the outskirts of Rankin Inlet.
“Boring!” said Hapanak, who had hoped to make more headway.
The Inuit rangers killed time. Maktar sculpted a miniature igloo out of the hard snow. Two bulky, middle-aged men played tag.
Hapanak singled out one British ranger who was wearing a light coat and kept making big, rapid circles with his arms to stay warm.
“I tried asking him, ‘Where’s your big coat?’” Hapanak said. “‘I’ll be good,’ he said.
“Trying to act tough, I guess.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Explorers; Moon; Ice; Military personnel; Armed forces; Inuit

Location: China; Nunavut Territory Canada; Northwest Passage; Russia; Arctic region; Canada

Company / organization: Name: Inuit Tribe; NAICS: 921150

Identifier / keyword: Norway; Privacy; Great Britain; United States; Canada; Ships And Shipping; Light; Texas; Exploration And Explorers; Snowmobiles; Snow And Snowstorms; United States International Relations; Russia; Colonization; Weather; Indigenous People; Moon; Coastal Areas; Europe; Embargoes And Sanctions; Exercise; Onishi, Norimitsu; Amundsen, Roald; Defense And Military Forces; Ontario (Canada); Blinken, Antony J; Toronto (Ontario); Montreal (Quebec); Weight; World; Advertising And Marketing; Senses And Sensation; International Relations; Ice; Eskimos; Cold War Era; Canadian Armed Forces; Fish And Other Marine Life; Nunavut (Canada); Arctic Regions; Age, Chronological

Title: Raw Meat and Moon Signs: Inuit Lessons for Soldiers in the Arctic

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 4, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-04T01:53:53Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821984029

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/raw-meat-moon-signs-inuit-lessons-soldiers-arctic/docview/2821984029/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Raw Meat and Moon Signs: Inuit Lessons for Soldiers in the Arctic

Author: Onishi, Norimitsu

Publication info: Onishi, Norimitsu. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/raw-meat-moon-signs-inuit-lessons-soldiers-arctic/docview/2821975074/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
RANKIN INLET, Canada — A moon dog hung low over the horizon. It showed up on the first day of the Canadian soldiers’ patrol, and the Inuit rangers guiding them in the country’s far north spotted it right away: Ice crystals in the clouds were bending the light, making two illusory moons appear in the sky.
It meant a storm was coming, despite the forecast of fair weather. The Inuit rangers told the platoon to pitch their tents and hunker down.
“If it gets worse, we’re going to be stranded,” said John Ussak, one of the Inuit rangers, recalling how the soldiers wanted to keep going but backed down. They awoke to a blizzard.
Canada is on a mission to assert its hold on its Arctic territory, an enormous stretch that was once little more than an afterthought.
As Russia and China focus greater attention on the region’s military and commercial potential, Canada’s armed forces are under pressure to understand the Arctic’s changing climate, how to survive there and how to defend it.
The contest is a global one, with the American secretary of state, Antony Blinken, having paid a five-day visit to Northern Europe last week to rally allies against Russian and Chinese ambitions in the Arctic.
Canada’s mission to secure the Arctic means relying more heavily on the Inuit, the only people who have lived in this austere part of the world for thousands of years, keeping watch over the country’s vast, isolated stretches in the far north.
It also means dredging into the country’s colonial past, changing hard-wired ways of thinking and undoing generations of mistrust. The Canadian government has a long and ugly history of abusing the Inuit, including misleading families into moving to the High Arctic to cement its hold on the territory during the Cold War and refusing to let them leave.
But in recent years, Canada has embarked on a wide-ranging attempt to come to terms with and atone for its colonial history. Efforts to secure Indigenous Canadians’ rightful place in the country have filtered through different levels of governments, schools, the arts and business.
Canada is also focusing on the most intractable element of postcolonial relationships — people’s way of thinking — by emphasizing learning from the Indigenous. On Arctic patrols, that brings practical benefits.
“Leaders need to show humility and understand it’s more important to acknowledge what you don’t know than what you do know,” said Maj. Brynn Bennett, the army commander who led the patrol in March with the Inuit rangers, part of a military exercise called Operation Nanook-Nunalivut.
Before the soldiers ever landed in Rankin Inlet, the hurdles were clear. Like nearly all other Canadians, most had never been this far north.
Military exercises between the Inuit rangers and the army have been held for decades, but the stakes have gotten higher as the world’s superpowers vie for preeminence in an Arctic made more accessible by climate change.
Russia is rapidly building up its military and partnering on commercial ventures with China, as thawing ice provides access to vast natural resources below the Arctic sea floor and unlocks new shipping lanes. Even Canada’s closest ally, the United States, disputes Canadian claims of sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.
While the exercise took place on uncontested Canadian territory, it is also part of a broader effort to build up Canada’s military capacity in the Arctic and to fend off any potential rival claims on the increasingly navigable waterways.
The Inuit rangers’ advice to delay the patrol — and, more than anything else, Bennet’s deference to them — not only shielded the seven Inuit rangers and nearly 40 soldiers from a blizzard but also cemented the authority of the Inuit in a region that continues to confound outsiders.
It was not always the case.
Around Rankin Inlet, a small subarctic town on the west coast of Hudson Bay, stories passed down for generations speak of Inuit advice and help offered, and refused, by explorers and whalers marooned on Marble Island, about 30 miles off the coast.
“My mom talked about it, even though I told her I didn’t want to hear about the past, because it really hurts me,” said Marianne Hapanak, 51, who has been a ranger for 24 years. “Our elders tried to help the white people,” she added. “Why didn’t they accept our help?
“Maybe just to act tough?” she said.
With about 3,000 people, Rankin Inlet is the second most populated town in Nunavut, a Canadian territory nearly three times the size of Texas with a population of only 40,000 people, most of them Inuit.
For centuries, European colonial powers led expeditions in search of a Northwest Passage — a shorter and faster sea route between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans through the labyrinth of islands and waterways in Canada’s Arctic.
In 1905, a Norwegian man, Roald Amundsen — who went to live among the Inuit to learn how to survive in the Arctic — became the first European explorer to cross the Northwest Passage. But some of the doomed efforts — most famously, the Franklin Expedition — have become parables of colonial cluelessness: European explorers who died of scurvy by rejecting the Inuit’s vitamin-rich diet of raw meat or after ignoring the Inuit and getting lost.
Harry Ittinuar, 59, a former Inuit ranger who used to run boat tours to Marble Island, grew up listening to stories of outsiders stranded on the island, including James Knight, an 18th-century English explorer who was shipwrecked with his crew after failing to find the Northwest Passage.
“One of the stories I heard — they knew one crew was struggling, so they went over in winter by dog team,” said Ittinuar of the Inuit.
“When they were able to cross the ice, they offered them help and food, but the sailors refused to eat seal, walrus, whale or caribou, or whatever was offered to them,” Ittinuar added. “That was their demise.”
Some Inuit rangers say they have noticed a change in mindset among the soldiers coming from “down south.”
“They’re more respectful now,” said Ussak, 47, who has been a ranger for two decades. “Our culture is a big part of being a ranger because we teach our knowledge in exercises like this. We teach them what we learned from our ancestors.”
The Inuit rangers who participated in the recent patrol are among 5,000 Canadian Rangers, part-time reservists in the Canadian armed forces. Above the tree line where it gets too cold for trees to survive, most of the rangers are Inuit.
With Canada’s military refashioning its relations with the Inuit by tapping into local knowledge, Canadian soldiers are heading north better prepared for the patrols, according to Inuit rangers.
Jack Kabvitok, 83, an Inuit who served as a ranger in the 1990s, recalled how soldiers occasionally arrived without the proper gear for temperatures that drop to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit in winter.
“They didn’t want to shoot their rifles because they didn’t want to touch the steel,” Kabvitok said. “They didn’t have coats or boots for up here. When they were few, we could deal with them. We would give them our clothes because we carry extra clothes all the time when we go hunting.”
Before their patrol, the soldiers trained at Petawawa, a base in Ontario. They practiced driving snowmobiles and built traditional Inuit sleds called qamutik. Despite an unusually brutal cold snap at the Ontario base, landing in Rankin Inlet was a shock to some.
“There’s winter all over Canada, and you think you know it until you come to a place where you don’t see any trees, just tundra,” said Corp. Simon Cartier, 30, from Montreal. “And if it wasn’t for the buildings, you’d probably feel like you’re on another planet.”
At their base in Rankin Inlet, the soldiers spent a day fixing their qamutiks, which the Inuit rangers immediately noted were inadequate for the subarctic. As the soldiers and Inuit rangers headed out on their five-day patrol, the weather, at least, looked favorable.
“We thought we were going to have good weather for the week based on the forecast,” Bennett said.
But on the first day, a soldier had to be evacuated after slipping and twisting an ankle. Continuing problems with the qamutiks forced the soldiers and Inuit rangers to set up camp about midway to their destination, in Chesterfield Inlet, a hamlet 60 miles northeast.
Then later that evening, the moon dog, a rare optical illusion, emerged low over the horizon.
When the Inuit rangers woke up the next morning — to the blizzard that made it impossible to see beyond 600 feet — they also saw a sun dog, a similar optical phenomenon that often precedes bad weather.
The oldest and most experienced Inuit ranger, Gerard Maktar, 65, and Ussak went to a morning briefing with the army leaders. Ussak said he met some pushback when he advised the soldiers to stay put until the weather cleared.
Lt. Erica Rogers, 29, a soldier from Toronto, acknowledged that there was initial skepticism of the warning from the Inuit rangers.
“We were going, well, it’s not that cold; we can still go out. If we were back in Petawawa, we would go out,” she said.
The delay prevented the soldiers from reaching their destination, but Bennet considered the patrol a success. His soldiers learned much from the Inuit, including building igloos, deciphering the meaning of snowdrifts, ice fishing, hunting and butchering caribou — and observing the moon dog and sun dog.
He added that his advice to the commander of the patrol after his was “Listen to Gerard” — referring to the elder Inuit ranger.
At the height of the Cold War in the 1950s, the Canadian government asserted its presence in the Arctic — not by listening to the Inuit, but by using them as human pawns. Officials misled 92 Inuit into relocating far away from families and long-established communities to uninhabited areas in the High Arctic where they found little food, 24-hour darkness in winter and an unfamiliar life that contributed to depression and alcoholism.
The Inuit rangers in the patrol said they believed that the joint mission would help Canada’s defense of its great north, though they said they did not want to be embroiled in a larger conflict.
“I wouldn’t want to go to war,” Hapanak said.
Even as Canada tries to up its game in the Arctic, Hapanak observed that the soldiers had a lot to learn — a point made clear with the start of the second patrol, a new group of 36 Canadian reservists and 10 British rangers.
As novices, they drove their snowmobiles slowly, taking more than three hours to reach a shooting range only 6 miles north of the base. One soldier had flipped on the side.
The soldiers started pitching their tents as it became clear they would have to set up camp just on the outskirts of Rankin Inlet.
“Boring!” said Hapanak, who had hoped to make more headway.
The Inuit rangers killed time. Maktar sculpted a miniature igloo out of the hard snow. Two bulky, middle-aged men played tag.
Hapanak singled out one British ranger who was wearing a light coat and kept making big, rapid circles with his arms to stay warm.
“I tried asking him, ‘Where’s your big coat?’” Hapanak said. “‘I’ll be good,’ he said.
“Trying to act tough, I guess.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Explorers; Moon; Ice; Military personnel; Armed forces; Inuit

Location: China; Nunavut Territory Canada; Northwest Passage; Russia; Arctic region; Canada

Company / organization: Name: Inuit Tribe; NAICS: 921150

Identifier / keyword: Norway; Privacy; Great Britain; United States; Canada; Ships And Shipping; Light; Texas; Exploration And Explorers; Snowmobiles; Snow And Snowstorms; United States International Relations; Russia; Colonization; Weather; Indigenous People; Moon; Coastal Areas; Europe; Embargoes And Sanctions; Exercise; Onishi, Norimitsu; Amundsen, Roald; Defense And Military Forces; Ontario (Canada); Blinken, Antony J; Toronto (Ontario); Montreal (Quebec); Weight; World; Advertising And Marketing; Senses And Sensation; International Relations; Ice; Eskimos; Cold War Era; Canadian Armed Forces; Fish And Other Marine Life; Nunavut (Canada); Arctic Regions; Age, Chronological

Title: Raw Meat and Moon Signs: Inuit Lessons for Soldiers in the Arctic

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-03T17:13:00Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821975074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/raw-meat-moon-signs-inuit-lessons-soldiers-arctic/docview/2821975074/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Where the Cool Kids No Longer Go: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kodé, Anna

Publication info: Kodé, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-cool-kids-no-longer-go/docview/2819788848/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The summer resort has lost its cool among younger people who are turned off by housing rules, housing costs and the culture of conspicuous wealth.
For years, the Hamptons were a hot summer destination for young, up-and-coming New Yorkers and the old and new moneyed alike. It was a place to see and be seen. Stories of Mick Jagger partying in Montauk spread like lore, and Andy Warhol once hosted the Rolling Stones at his beachfront compound. It wasn't uncommon for young college graduates in the city to save up and pool together to rent a summer house and get a taste of the glamour.
In a 1999 interview with New York Magazine, Jay-Z put it simply: "I mean, the Hamptons is cool."
The Hamptons still have a mythological reputation, fueled by the celebrity cachet that comes with square footage, seclusion and ocean waves. "Kaia Gerber, Ina Garten and Diplo walk into a bar -- that is to say, the Hamptons holds a certain, je ne sais quoi? Where else would these mega names be in the same sentence?" said Jacob Rutledge, a 22-year-old model and content creator.
But the Hamptons are not what they once were. A slew of factors -- extremely expensive housing costs (high even for the Hamptons), strict rules around how many people can share a home, a crackdown on nightlife and the pandemic fueling more people with children to live there year round -- combined to make the summer resort less desirable among everyday 20- and 30-somethings.
Despite his instinct to marvel at the Long Island refuge, Mr. Rutledge, who lives in Ridgewood, Queens, isn't going out to the Hamptons this summer. Instead, he'll be close by at Fire Island.
"There's a certain air when you take the boat to Fire Island, like a school bus taking these gay men to an amusement park," said Mr. Rutledge. "The culture that Fire Island provides will always be the reason it stays in style. When I'm 50 plus, find me in the Hamptons."
Even Gen Z's favorite 80-something icon and recent Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue cover star, Martha Stewart, has divested, selling her East Hampton estate in 2021 for $ 16.5 million.
How Did the Hamptons Become the Hamptons?
The hipness of the Hamptons has always been cyclical, defined by whoever was trying to take control of it next -- going from bohemian cool, upscale art world cool and eventually to glamour and glitterati cool.
Over the decades, new groups of people would come to the Hamptons and try to make the resort theirs, warping and grooming them to fit their own unique needs and desires. "The continuity in the Hamptons is that really wealthy people are looking to find something new to conquer," said Corey Dolgon, the author of "The End of the Hamptons" and a professor of sociology at Stonehill College.
Sometime after the existence of Pangea but before Gwyneth Paltrow bought a place there, the Hamptons formed as a region on the southeastern end of Long Island, surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean -- as in, there's a lot of desirable waterfront real estate.
Before European colonizers arrived in the 1600s, Native Americans, including the Shinnecock and Montauk tribes, occupied much of Eastern Long Island. The outsiders co-opted Indigenous values and culture, enforced a money economy and introduced a patriarchal system of governance, Mr. Dolgon said. Clashes over land use between the newcomers and Indigenous people continue today. Wealthy residents and local officials have objected to the Shinnecock people's construction of highway billboards and plans to open a casino on its reservation -- both attempts to dampen the high poverty rate they face.
Centuries later, another early wave of outsiders -- artists and writers -- descended on the land. In the late 1800s, Walt Whitman published several works on his fascination with the natural wonder of the Hamptons. In an article in The Brooklyn Standard, he wrote, "To a mineralogist, I fancy Montauk Point must be a perpetual feast. Even to my unscientific eyes there were innumerable wonders and beauties all along the shore, and edges of the cliffs."
Such descriptions "encouraged people -- especially the Bohemian, artist types and young people with money -- to go out to this unspoiled land," Mr. Dolgon said.
The migration of artists then began to entice the wealthy to build summer cottages there, Mr. Dolgon said.
In the post World War II era, the Hamptons drew a new group of artists. With a loan from Peggy Guggenheim, in 1945 Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock bought a home in the East Hampton hamlet of Springs for $ 5,000.
The postwar economic boom, along with the construction of the urban planner Robert Moses' highways along Long Island, allowed for people of means to go out to the Hamptons more frequently and for shorter stretches of time, Mr. Dolgon pointed out.
The reputation of the Hamptons as a weekend getaway and summer vacation spot continued to grow, and by the 1990s and 2000s, "everybody wants a piece of the Hamptons," Mr. Dolgon said. The dot-com boom and the rise of telecommuting led to "a new wave of money trying to put their imprimatur on the land."
This is when the Hamptons become fashionable in an aspirational sense, and college graduates would save up to rent summer homes together. "For people who are up and coming," Mr. Dolgon said, "they have to have a place in the Hamptons."
In 1998, Diddy threw the first of his strictly all-white-dress-code parties at his East Hampton home, which Paris Hilton called "iconic." The next year, Ivana Trump and Busta Rhymes sat together at Jay-Z's Fourth of July soiree. One tabloid story that epitomized the craze at the time was of Lizzie Grubman, a publicist who New York Magazine crowned the "reigning queen of New York nightlife." In 2001, after a fight with a bouncer outside of a club in Southampton, Ms. Grubman backed her Mercedes into a crowd of partygoers. It would become known as the "Summer of Lizzie."
So, Then What Happened?
Now, it's more likely to be coined the summer of sleepiness.
Last summer, when Ms. Paltrow's daughter, Apple Martin, threw a bash at their Amagansett estate, cops reportedly shut it down. But Ms. Paltrow's Cartier-sponsored pajama party, where "sleep milk" was handed out as a party favor, didn't ruffle any feathers.
Decades back, towns began rolling out rules that would regulate the revelry. In 1975, East Hampton adopted legislation that barred groups of more than four unrelated people from living together in houses. Southampton has restrictions specifically on the number of people that can occupy bedrooms.
For a while, many looked the other way as friends, lovers and strangers split the cost of a summer house more than a dozen ways -- sharing rooms, mattresses and more. In an episode of "Sex and the City," Samantha Jones tells her friends about her 25-year-old assistant, who has "a summer share in Bridgehampton with 18 other girls. They have to sleep in shifts."
Such a setup would be difficult to come by today, as residents began demanding stricter enforcement of the longtime laws. "The long tradition of dozens of young people crowding into a Hamptons house for a summer of wild abandon is under attack," The Times reported in 2003, following several police raids, neighbors spying on each other and Southampton imposing tougher penalties for violators.
In a clampdown reminiscent of "Footloose," even dancing can be punishable.
Shagwong Tavern, an unfussy, old-school restaurant and bar in Montauk that dates back to the 1920s, was a haunt visited by John Lennon, Bianca Jagger and Andy Warhol. "Get Off of My Cloud" by The Rolling Stones blasted from the jukebox, and people shimmied shoulder to shoulder into the A.M.
Present day, a sign out front reads "piano player wanted must have knowledge of opening clams." All walks of life have known that they can come together there through music.
"It's for everybody -- the fisherman, the Wall Street guy, the celebrity, the contractor," said Jon Krasner, who bought the tavern in 2015.
Last year, a building inspector ruled that moving furniture to allow dancing meant that Shagwong was illegally operating as a nightclub, which is a special permitted use in the region.
"We're not going to make money being the best filet mignon place in town. We're a bar," Mr. Krasner said. "If people want to listen to a band and dance, then hell yeah, that's what a bar is for."
Rumors of 'Fancy People'
But who are the Hamptons for?
It's a given these days that it takes money to enjoy the Hamptons. During the pandemic, many New Yorkers moved to the Hamptons full-time and the region's D.N.A. changed -- more businesses stayed open year round, and school enrollment went up. According to census data, the population of East Hampton rose by more than 30 percent from April 2010 to April 2021.
Prices went up even more. For the first quarter of 2023, the average sales price of a home reached a record-breaking $ 3.08 million, according to Douglas Elliman. Rentals aren't cheap either. "For a relatively updated three-bedroom house with a pool, you're looking at like $ 1,000 a night," said Joseph Van Asco, a broker. "The high end begins around $ 100,000 a month."
"Housing is probably the number one driver of why the 20s and 30s are sort of retreating from the Hamptons," said Britton Bistrian, an Amagansett-based land-use consultant. "A share house, back in the day in the '80s and '90s and even into the 2000s, was something that was attainable to a young professional. And I would say that it's not anymore. They've been priced out just as much as working class people have been priced out."
Demand is going down. There have been reports that summer rental prices are dropping, as there are more homes in the region than people willing to rent them. But that might not be enough to draw back trendy young folks.
The Hamptons represent a conspicuous wealth that isn't as celebrated as it may have been in the 1990s and 2000s. The media we consume is largely dominated by eat-the-rich plotlines -- think, "Triangle of Sadness," "The Menu," and "White Lotus." So maybe it's not unanticipated that young people would have little interest in conforming to the lifestyle of the Hamptons.
"I think of the Hamptons as a vacation spot for a certain subset of affluent New Yorkers who probably use 'summer' as a verb rather than a noun," said Jade Song, a 26-year-old art director and the author of "Chlorine: A Novel." She won't be leaving New York this summer, but will still get her beach fix -- "I will be eating vareniki, lagman and khachapuri at Brighton Beach," Ms. Song said.
Sunny Hostin, 54, a co-host on ABC's "The View" and an author, also used to feel that same way. When she was in her 20s, Ms. Hostin "had heard rumors of this place where fancy people visited."
Even though she was intrigued, Ms. Hostin wasn't in a rush to visit at first. "It didn't have the reputation, in my view, as a haven for people of color," she said. "While inviting, in my mind, because it was this glitzy, wealthy, rich place, I didn't really gravitate toward it at first, because I didn't know if it was a fit for me."
But her opinion changed in her 30s, when she discovered the historically Black beach community known as SANS in Sag Harbor. She began renting a home there during the summer months, and it quickly became a tradition. "I have memories of clam digging in the bay, searching for crabs with my kids," she said. "I have real history there now."
Inspired by these experiences, Ms. Hostin wrote "Summer on Sag Harbor," set in SANS. She hopes it can help change young people's minds about the Hamptons. "I can't believe I felt that way," Ms. Hostin said. "They need to visit A.S.A.P., even if it's just for a day -- one day is all you need to know that you belong there."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page RE6.

ERIC Subject: Artists; Young Adults; Enrollment; Land Use; Housing; College Graduates

Subject: Enrollments; College graduates; Bars; Celebrities; Pandemics

Location: New York; United States--US; Fire Island; Long Island New York

People: Warhol, Andy (1928-1987); Jay-Z (rapper)

Company / organization: Name: New York Magazine Holdings LLC; NAICS: 513120; Name: Rolling Stones; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/26/realestate/hamptons-summer-housing-costs.html

Title: Where the Cool Kids No Longer Go:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 28, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819788848

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-cool-kids-no-longer-go/docview/2819788848/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Perfectly Fine Plan A, Except for All Those Bees: [Society Desk]

Author: Radomsky, Rosalie R

Publication info: Radomsky, Rosalie R. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perfectly-fine-plan-except-all-those-bees/docview/2810282479/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Peter Walters planned to propose to Ray Quintero at a picnic on Fire Island, but en route Mr. Quintero spotted a swarm of bees ahead, and bolted.
Peter Derek Walters never thought a swarm of bees would get in the way of his proposal to Ray Aaron Quintero on Fire Island in New York.
"I hid two Cartier rings under leaves and branches," said Mr. Walters, 48, who had secretly and painstakingly set up a picnic overlooking the Great South Bay for the special moment in June 2020. He had also dropped off Champagne and wrote "Marry Me" in the sand.
But, a few hours later while en route with Mr. Quintero, 43, who has been deathly afraid of bees since he was a child, it was all ruined. As soon as Mr. Quintero spotted the swarm he bolted.
Mr. Walters, not a happy camper, walked another 30 minutes by himself to gather everything up, and later resorted to Plan B.
The two met one Sunday afternoon in September 2018 when friends gathered at Boxers, a gay bar in Manhattan's Hell's Kitchen. Their connection was a mutual friend, whom, coincidentally, each casually dated.
"Hey, g'day, I'm Peter, you must be Ray," said Mr. Walters, who recognized him from a Facebook photo taken with that friend in Mykonos, Greece.
Mr. Walters, an identical twin, from Elong Elong, a small village in New South Wales, Australia, grew up in a house abutting his family's cattle and grain ranch where feral pigs, emus, kangaroos and goannas wandered in from the bush. (He considered bees the most important insect in the ecosystem.) His family also ran a ranch supplies business in the village.
Mr. Walters, the chief executive of the Americas at Inquisitive, an Australian-based education publishing company, graduated from the University of Southern Queensland in Australia, from which he received an M.B.A.
"Is that tall strapping Australian talking to me?," Mr. Quintero, originally from Tucson, Ariz., recalled thinking. He graduated from the University of Arizona, and is now a managing partner of Healthsperien, a Washington-based health care policy and business strategy consultancy.
Later on, during their first meeting, the group barhopped to Rise Bar nearby. The two chatted on the sidelines and swapped phone numbers.
"It was the spark of a friendship," Mr. Walters said, and soon they began hanging out two or three days a week, and even more as the Christmas season revved up.
When Mr. Quintero, who had been working remotely from New York for a year, moved back to Washington over the holidays, their friendship continued.
Like a good friend, three weeks later, Mr. Quintero showed up for Mr. Walters at his birthday/Australia Day open house in January where about 80 guests snacked on Vegemite, Tim Tams and assorted Aussie lollies at Mr. Walter's Chelsea apartment decked out with Australian flags.
"I normally have a small group of friends for dinner before the rest of the party arrives," Mr. Walters said. "I invited Ray to this."
Later, on their way to a bar with guests, the two lagged behind, and twirled around into a kiss.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
"We were giddy, and holding hands," Mr. Walters said, and the next evening they had tapas on their first official date at Salinas in West Chelsea, which became their favorite restaurant.
They soon took turns seeing each other every weekend via Amtrak Acela, and in March took a trip to St. Barths, which they both described as the "magical acknowledgment of each other."
By May, to slow things down, they took what they called an "intermission." Six weeks later when Mr. Quintero flew into New York in June after celebrating world gay pride in Tel Aviv, they reunited at a fund-raiser for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS.
"Maybe we're ready for Act Two," Mr. Quintero said "We're going to make this act the one that lasts."
That summer they went to Fire Island several times and in September they vacationed in Spain.
In March 2020, when the pandemic hit, they quarantined with friends on Fire Island for a month, and then rented their own place along the water for another three months.
"We had never cooked and leaned into our recipes," said Mr. Walters, "and made lasagna and enchiladas."
"Our friends named us the chefettes," he added, and soon they proudly donned black aprons with "chefettes" printed in teal.
On a whim, in June, Mr. Walters got down on one knee for a pre-proposal before the two identical platinum bands he had ordered online arrived. Two days later, with rings in hand, his real proposal was thwarted by the bees. But that evening came success. Mr. Walters got down on one knee on their balcony as the moon rose over the ocean. After Mr. Walters proposed, Mr. Quintero got the other ring from where Mr. Walters had hidden it. Then he got down on one knee and proposed.
"I have since embraced bees," said Mr. Quintero, who from that day overcame his phobia, and in November 2022 they celebrated their engagement on St. Barths, where they also planned to celebrate their union.
On April 21, Madeline Plasencia, on the city clerk's staff, officiated at their civil ceremony at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau, with their mutual friend, who introduced them, as their witness.
Then, on May 6, they planned to exchange vows at the Le Sereno hotel on St. Barths, before 64 guests. "It's not only empowering to overcome the fear of bees," Mr. Quintero said, "but also to choose to get married in the place we fell in love and bring together friends and family closest to us."
Photograph Ray Quintero, Peter Walters (PHOTOGRAPH BY TISA SENCUR) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Fear & phobias; Friendship; Health care policy

Location: Australia; New York; United States--US; Fire Island

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/05/style/peter-walters-ray-quintero-wedding.html

Title: A Perfectly Fine Plan A, Except for All Those Bees:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810282479

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perfectly-fine-plan-except-all-those-bees/docview/2810282479/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dorothy Bohm, 98, Who Tried to 'Show the Good' in Life, Is Dead: [Biography]

Author: Slotnik, Daniel E

Publication info: Slotnik, Daniel E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dorothy-bohm-98-who-tried-show-good-life-is-dead/docview/2809341195/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a peripatetic life, beginning with a flight from the Nazis, she found a kind of stability in making pictures for more than seven decades.
For more than seven decades, the click of a camera shutter was the soundtrack to Dorothy Bohm's life.
She was a teenager in Lithuania when her father gave her a Leica as she boarded a train to flee the Nazis. She studied photography in Manchester, England, after the Blitzkrieg drove her from London. Her camera was a steadfast companion when she traveled the world, chronicling her travels and the people she saw with an empathetic eye. And as her renown as a photographer grew, she switched to color film and experimented with bold new styles.
Mrs. Bohm created a vast body of photographs, in the process becoming a grande dame of the art form, before she died at 98 on March 15 at a care facility in Northwest London. Her daughter Monica Bohm-Duchen confirmed the death.
Mrs. Bohm began as a portraitist, but her photography blossomed when she left the studio. She branched out to make black-and-white landscapes and street photographs that documented life in cities like London and Paris; colorful abstract compositions; and still lifes.
There was a permanence to photography that Mrs. Bohm, whose life was uprooted repeatedly, found appealing.
"A photograph fulfills my deep need to stop things from disappearing," she told The Times of Israel in 2016.
Her photographs have appeared in more than a dozen books and more than two dozen exhibitions:
A streetlamp casts a filigreed shadow in a beam of sunlight slanting into a deserted alley.
A sturdy woman selling flowers seems to rise out of a cloud of petals in front of a striped umbrella propped on its side.
Israeli and Palestinian children play on a sun-drenched street, laughing into the lens.
A woman and a child stare down at a small dog in a starkly-lit courtyard as Mrs. Bohm's camera stares down at them.
Regardless of the subject, warmth suffused much of her work.
"Dorothy Bohm knows her camera not only sees, it feels," wrote Roland Penrose, an English artist and historian, in the introduction to her first book, "A World Observed" (1970).
Mrs. Bohm wanted those feelings to be positive. As she said in 2016: "I've seen a lot. But I don't show the ugliness of life; I try to show the good."
Dorothea Israelit was born on June 22, 1924, to Tobias and Ethel (Meirovich) Israelit in Koenigsberg, East Prussia (now Kaliningrad, Russia). Her mother was a homemaker, and her father was a successful textile industrialist.
After a privileged childhood, the Israelit family, who were Jewish, moved to Lithuania in 1932, where Mr. Israelit had business interests. In June 1939, with the rise of Nazi Germany and its persecution of Jews, her father sent Dorothy to a boarding school in England for her safety.
When she said farewell to her parents, her father handed her his Leica and said, "It might be useful to you," she recalled in 2016. She made it to England but would not see her parents again for more than 20 years.
Dorothy was attending a boarding school in Ditchling, a village in East Sussex, in the south of England, when a relative there suggested that she try photography. After interviewing with the London studio photographer Germaine Kanova, she was hired to be her assistant.
But with London being bombed in the Blitz, beginning in September 1940, Ms. Kanova was forced to close her studio, and Dorothy moved north to Manchester. In 1942, in the midst of war, she graduated from a photography program at the Manchester College of Technology (now the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology).
While in Manchester she met Louis Bohm, a Polish Jewish refugee whose mother and sister had died in the Warsaw Ghetto. They married in 1945, and Mrs. Bohm insisted that he complete his studies for a chemistry Ph.D. while she worked. She opened a portrait studio in Manchester, called Studio Alexander, in 1946.
By the late 1940s, Dr. Bohm was working for a petrochemical company and traveling frequently. Mrs. Bohm, carrying her Rolleiflex camera, accompanied him on trips to Israel, Mexico, Russia, Egypt, Portugal, Italy and Switzerland, at first producing black-and-white, usually plein-air, photographs.
The couple lived in Paris, New York City and San Francisco before settling in London's Hampstead neighborhood, where Mrs. Bohm lived until her death.
In the late 1950s, Mrs. Bohm learned from the Red Cross that her parents and sister Dina had survived the war but, by then living in Soviet-controlled territory, had all been deported to Siberian labor camps as capitalist enemies of the Kremlin and had spent years there before being released. They were living in Riga, then part of the Soviet Union and now the capital of Latvia, when Mrs. Bohm visited them for a reunion in 1960.
Three years later, Mrs. Bohm's parents obtained permission to go to England. Her younger sister, Dina, moved to Israel in the early 1970s.
Mrs. Bohm's first show of her photographs was held in 1969 at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London.
Beginning in 1971, she became associate director of the Photographers' Gallery, London's first gallery devoted solely to photography. It had been founded that year by Sue Davies. Mrs. Bohm spent 15 years at the gallery in that role, nurturing up-and-coming photographers like Martin Parr and Marketa Luskacova and working with stars like Manuel Álvarez Bravo, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Bill Brandt and André Kertész.
Impressed by Polaroid photos shot by Mr. Kertész, Mrs. Bohm worked with Polaroids in the early 1980s and switched to color film exclusively in 1984. Her color work included abstract images of torn posters, reflections of store displays in puddles and mannequins leaning in storefronts. Her photographs of Hong Kong and Japan were all shot in color.
Dr. Bohm died in 1994. In addition to her daughter Monica, she is survived by another daughter, Yvonne Nicholas; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Bohm's other books include "A World Observed 1940-2010: Photographs by Dorothy Bohm" (2010) and "About Women: Photographs by Dorothy Bohm" (2015). She was the subject of two documentaries, one for the BBC titled "Dorothy Bohm -- Photographer" (1980) and "Seeing Daylight: The Photography of Dorothy Bohm" (2018).
By 2018, Mrs. Bohm had stopped making photographs but, as she told The Guardian, the visual world still brought her joy.
"From my bedroom there's a wonderful view, as beautiful as any in the Mediterranean," she said.
Photograph Dorothy Bohm captured street life all over the world, like this flower seller in Brussels in 1949.; She found Israeli and Palestinian children playing together in Haifa, Israel, in 1959.; Mrs. Bohm in the 1970s.; A streetlamp casts a filigreed shadow in a beam of sunlight slanting into a deserted alley in Córdoba, Spain, during the 1950s. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA THE DOROTHY BOHM ESTATE) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Photographers; Photography; Deaths

People: Bohm, Dorothy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/04/arts/dorothy-bohm-dead.html

Title: Dorothy Bohm, 98, Who Tried to 'Show the Good' in Life, Is Dead:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 5, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2809341195

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dorothy-bohm-98-who-tried-show-good-life-is-dead/docview/2809341195/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

TikTok Feuds in the Diamond District: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Kilgannon, Corey; Dar Yaskil

Publication info: Kilgannon, Corey; Dar Yaskil. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-feuds-diamond-district/docview/2804560955/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Zev Weitman's angular frame was hunched over his sooty workbench in a cramped diamond-cutting shop several floors above the buzz of Manhattan's diamond district. But his mind was roaming a crystalline chamber, tweaking facets to coax a brilliant symphony of light from the diamond he was working against a cutting wheel.
"I'm always improvising, always searching for the perfect cut," said Mr. Weitman, 68, who began cutting in the district four decades ago, when thousands of jewelry businesses studded a single block of 47th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. Back then, there were also thousands of cutters like Mr. Weitman, many of them shaping and perfecting diamonds from rough stones straight out of mines.
Now, Mr. Weitman says, only a few hundred remain in the district, focusing on repairs, rush jobs and the kind of high-end work he does. His dozen apprentices are gone, and he labors and obsesses over the stones by himself -- working at the wheel or solving problems in bed, in the shower or in stolen overnight naps on his coat on the shop's tile floor. None of his four children -- nor, presumably, any of his 28 grandchildren -- will follow him into his trade.
The death of the diamond district has been foretold for years. Most diamond-cutting work has been outsourced to factories overseas. Online shopping has cut into showroom sales. The pandemic lockdown derailed supply and devastated foot traffic. Inexpensive lab-grown diamonds resembling real ones have rattled a seemingly unshakable diamond economy. Many longstanding family shops have downsized or lack succession plans. Booth vacancies in once-bustling jewelry exchanges are a common sight.
And now, the inevitable: A mega-developer has demolished more than a dozen buildings in the district to make way for two huge structures, a supertall tower and a luxury hotel. This, some old-school jewelers fear, will change the unique character of the diamond district.
But there is another facet to this gloomy prognosis.
Right across the street from where Mr. Weitman was sweating out the perfect cut is a glittering storefront counter awash in rap star bling. The aura of the shop, TraxNYC, could not be more different from the Old World austerity of Mr. Weitman's cutting studio.
Showcases are filled with jewel-encrusted pendants, and gold chains drip from graffitied jewelry stands tended by a young, diverse sales staff that would not look out of place at a Brooklyn dance club.
In the rear of the showroom is a staircase that leads to the V.I.P. lounge, where the unmistakable fragrance of marijuana lingers and preferred customers peruse jewelry served up by employees along with complimentary diversions: premium liquor, pre-rolled joints, a video game console.
Where past generations of diamond cutters might have hunkered down, TraxNYC has a team of 20-somethings sitting at a common table, noisily handling online and phone sales and taking custom orders started on the spot with design software and 3-D printers.
"We're transforming the industry, and these are the young people who will be taking it over," said the owner, Maksud Agadjani, 36, whose designs are popular with clients like Cardi B and Busta Rhymes.
"People may want to watch the old diamond district in movies and on TV, but the truth is people don't want to go to the diamond district anymore," Mr. Agadjani said. "So the old ways have to get ripped up."
But the old ways are not gone yet. As Midtown has been transformed by tourism, soaring commercial rents and proliferating chain stores, the diamond district seems to stand out more than ever as an anachronism.
Compared with the high-end flagship shops on Fifth Avenue -- Cartier, Harry Winston, Tiffany & Company -- 47th Street feels like a time warp. Makeshift synagogues and kosher eateries are wedged between jewelry office suites. On the sidewalk, Hasidic diamond dealers haggle on flip phones while groups of men smoke and banter in various languages and hawkers try to lure passers-by into showrooms.
Mr. Agadjani sneers at all that. Who needs a hawker when his Instagram posts and TikTok videos bring in millions of views a day? "We do $ 20 million on the daily between all of us," he said, referring to the volume of the whole district. He has now been on the block for 18 years, and his shop does more than $ 30 million in annual sales.
He started the company with a high school graduation gift of $ 1,500 and sold jewelry on consignment on eBay. Now he focuses on popularizing his brand through social media, publicity stunts and a YouTube reality show called "The District."
He gets lots of mileage out of beefs with rappers and reality show stars. His feud with the Brooklyn-based rapper Tekashi69 became publicity pay dirt when 50 Cent came to Tekashi's defense and called Mr. Agadjani a "sucker." It didn't matter that Mr. Agadjani was ridiculed -- the post went viral.
"The past is the past, and things are evolving super quickly," he said. "While one part of the district is dying, another part is being born."
New York's most precious export
With all due respect to Mr. Agadjani's swagger, he did not invent the 47th Street hustle.
The jewelry district in New York emerged in the 1800s as a cluster of shops in Lower Manhattan. Later on, Jewish diamond merchants fleeing Europe before World War II began setting up on 47th Street.
Much of the industry's roots in Orthodox Jewish parts of Eastern Europe is reflected in the block's own vocabulary, largely Yiddish. A "strop" is a second-rate stone that won't sell; it's "khazeray" or "shlok" -- garbage. Merchants share a secret code to freely discuss a "gee," or customer. A "2-10" is a warning to keep "two eyes on 10 fingers" when serving a potential thief.
This secret world is revealed on the upper floors above the showrooms in a honeycomb of cramped workshops, retail stalls and anonymous office suites. Here, the polishers, sorters, appraisers, graders and bench jewelers toil behind locked double-door vestibules ("man-traps") that allow visitors to be checked before entry and exit.
Even with all the challenges, jewelry, gems and precious metals from the diamond district are still among New York State's most valuable exports, and the stores around 47th Street make up the largest diamond market in the country, a conduit for an estimated 90 percent of the diamonds imported into the United States. High-end pieces that end up for sale at Tiffany and Harry Winston often begin their lives here as raw material.
"I mean, other than bagels, what else is made in New York anymore?" said Romy Schreiber, whose grandmother started Gumuchian Jewelry, one of the only matrilineal businesses that have endured among diamond dealers.
The district can be intimidating to outsiders not accustomed to the hard sell.
On a recent weekday, a woman holding a cardboard sign -- "WE BUY CASH LOAN" -- tried to flag down passers-by on the block. The woman, Mirta Kuzmana, is perhaps the only female hawker there. She can speak five languages, including her native Latvian, and makes $ 70 a day luring customers into a pawnshop.
"I show you the best deals anywhere," she said to a family of tourists. They declined and sidestepped her, and she directed her sidewalk pitch to the next comers.
Across the street, Richie Winick leaned over the display case of his stall in a bustling exchange.
"It's not beautiful like Madison Avenue, but if you know the people you're dealing with, you'll pay much less," Mr. Winick said. Now 62, he runs the jewelry company his father started almost 70 years ago. Compared with Mr. Weitman's laborious craftsmanship or Mr. Agadjani's social media savvy, his business is more representative of the district, though he has rolled with the times by sharing office space with an Indian firm that specializes in lab-grown diamonds.
Still, the old-school barter economy persists. Many deals are done on credit, with millions of dollars entrusted to a handwritten memo and a handshake and a blessing of "mazel und brucha" -- Yiddish for "luck and blessing."
"You can have a $ 10 million deal just by signing your name," Mr. Winick said. "Where else can you do that?"
A customer appeared in his shop looking for a diamond ring for his girlfriend, and Mr. Winick went into his spiel. "Here, look at this," he began. "This is a $ 200,000 stone at Tiffany's, but you save 50 cents on the dollar by shopping on 47th Street." The customer opted for a smaller diamond. A good choice, Mr. Winick told him.
"You know the 11th Commandment, right?" he added. "Thou shalt not pay retail."
It is unclear where modernization will leave someone like Mr. Weitman, who regards his 40-year career as an obsessive quest for the ultimate cut that makes a diamond dazzle with light. He called it a mystical pursuit that blends optical physics, the eye of an artist and the touch of a surgeon. One of his devoted following of dealers referred to him as "the man with the diamond eyes."
In the cutting room, he resembled a painter at his canvas, pulling back periodically to evaluate his work by lifting the gem to an overhead lamp. He peered through a magnifying loupe into its tiny twinkling windows to inspect cuts made for maximum brilliance and scintillation crucial to the stone's beauty.
Ideas for new designs germinate without warning and are fleshed out through trial and error. But they are executed in the shop, where he can spend weeks on a single stone.
"When you're cutting, there is nothing else," said Mr. Weitman, who has spent all-nighters lost in his work in the shop. "It's like watching Michael Jordan play against the Knicks. It's excitement beyond anything you could imagine."
Cutters work under high pressure. They must preserve valuable carat weight while managing the constant risk of shattering the gem with a single misplaced cut. "If you hit a gletz" -- an imperfection -- "it can shatter," Mr. Weitman said. "Sometimes it can't be prevented. It's a terrible feeling."
One of Mr. Weitman's dealers, Charles Paskesz, 53, started as a diamond cutter, but while he was working on a $ 15,000 stone, it suddenly shattered. Plagued with nightmares, he quit cutting.
"I never put another stone on the wheel," said Mr. Paskesz, now a diamond dealer with IGC Group, a large Belgian company with an office in the district.
The influencer and the artisan
The stakes are also high for the new breed of diamond dealers. A showroom down the block from TraxNYC that also caters to a hip-hop clientele was held up by armed robbers several years back and now has security guards who look like nightclub bouncers.
For Mr. Agadjani, who grew up in Rego Park, Queens, after his parents immigrated from Azerbaijan when he was 7, this is the culture he knows. "My father told me, 'This is a place with real opportunity,"' said Mr. Agadjani, who graduated from Forest Hills High School. "I sized up America quick enough."
At one point he dressed one of his sales agents in a squirrel costume to make another goofball post goading a rival. Nothing like a good social media beef to flog the brand.
Mr. Agadjani's recent social media dust-up with Scott Disick, an influencer and reality TV star on "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," turned into marketing gold. Calling out Mr. Disick on Instagram was a boon for the jeweler's brand, as was the very public way Mr. Agadjani delivered a custom-made gremlin necklace to Kodak Black: He strolled onstage at a concert in Miami and fastened it around his neck as a sea of smartphones captured the moment.
As much as Mr. Agadjani may distance himself from the diamond district's more traditional business methods, he will admit one thing: Location is crucial.
"I'm not getting my jewelry from Walmart," he said. "I have to manufacture it, and this block is a factory. Everyone is critical. One guy's polishing, another guy's casting, another's soldering. This guy's setting gemstones, that guy's an enameler."
Although Mr. Agadjani and Mr. Weitman seem like opposites, they are similar in their obsessional pursuit as jewelers, to the point of losing sleep.
"I'd like to meet him," Mr. Agadjani said as his team slapped some taunting graphics on the squirrel video and posted it. "Guys like him -- that's why I'm here."
Photograph Arman Ozyan, 71, an Armenian diamond polisher, in his work space. The death of the diamond district has been foretold for years.; Above, some of the jewelry sold at TraxNYC. Right, a cross polished by Eric Yoo, 46, of TraxNYC. Below, Zev Weitman's flip phone shows a diamond that he cut. This paper once held a 1.70-carat diamond, and the numbers indicate where he cut the stone, in case he needs to refine the facet. (MB7); Mr. Agadjani of TraxNYC, viewing a video on gold he made for social media. (MB8); MAKSUD AGADJANI, 36, who grew up in Queens, after his parents emigrated from Azerbaijan when he was 7.; Mr. Weitman's 40-year career has been a quest for the ultimate cut, with all-nighters in his shop. (MB8-MB9); ZEV WEITMAN, 68, who began cutting in the diamond district four decades ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAR YASKIL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) This article appeared in print on page MB7, MB8, MB9.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Yiddish language; Diamonds; Sales; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Sales Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/20/nyregion/diamond-district-jewelers.html

Title: TikTok Feuds in the Diamond District:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 23, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804560955

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-feuds-diamond-district/docview/2804560955/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pre-rolled Joints and TikTok Feuds: This Is the Diamond District?

Author: Kilgannon, Corey

Publication info: Kilgannon, Corey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pre-rolled-joints-tiktok-feuds-this-is-diamond/docview/2804315707/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Zev Weitman’s angular frame was hunched over his sooty workbench in a cramped diamond-cutting shop several floors above the buzz of Manhattan’s diamond district. But his mind was roaming a crystalline chamber, tweaking facets to coax a brilliant symphony of light from the diamond he was working against a cutting wheel.
“I’m always improvising, always searching for the perfect cut,” said Weitman, 68, who began cutting in the district four decades ago, when thousands of jewelry businesses studded a single block of 47th Street. Back then, there were also thousands of cutters like Weitman, many of them shaping and perfecting diamonds from rough stones straight out of mines.
Now, Weitman said, only a few hundred remain in the district, focusing on repairs, rush jobs and the kind of high-end work he does. His dozen apprentices are gone, and he labors and obsesses over the stones by himself — working at the wheel or solving problems in bed, in the shower or in stolen overnight naps on his coat on the shop’s tile floor. None of his four children — nor, presumably, any of his 28 grandchildren — will follow him into his trade.
The death of the diamond district has been foretold for years. Most diamond-cutting work has been outsourced to factories overseas. Online shopping has cut into showroom sales. The pandemic lockdown derailed supply and devastated foot traffic. Inexpensive lab-grown diamonds resembling real ones have rattled a seemingly unshakable diamond economy. Many long-standing family shops have downsized or lack succession plans. Booth vacancies in once-bustling jewelry exchanges are a common sight.
And now, the inevitable: A megadeveloper has demolished more than a dozen buildings in the district to make way for two huge structures, a supertall tower and a luxury hotel. This, some old-school jewelers fear, will change the unique character of the diamond district.
But there is another facet to this gloomy prognosis.
Right across the street from where Weitman was sweating out the perfect cut is a glittering storefront counter awash in rap star bling. The aura of the shop, TraxNYC, could not be more different from the Old World austerity of Weitman’s cutting studio.
Showcases are filled with jewel-encrusted pendants, and gold chains drip from graffitied jewelry stands tended by a young, diverse sales staff that would not look out of place at a Brooklyn dance club.
In the rear of the showroom is a staircase that leads to the VIP lounge, where the unmistakable fragrance of marijuana lingers and preferred customers peruse jewelry served up by employees along with complimentary diversions: premium liquor, pre-rolled joints, a video game console.
Where past generations of diamond cutters might have hunkered down, TraxNYC has a team of 20-somethings sitting at a common table, noisily handling online and phone sales and taking custom orders started on the spot with design software and 3D printers.
“We’re transforming the industry, and these are the young people who will be taking it over,” said the owner, Maksud Agadjani, 36, whose designs are popular with clients like Cardi B and Busta Rhymes.
“People may want to watch the old diamond district in movies and on TV, but the truth is people don’t want to go to the diamond district anymore,” Agadjani said. “So the old ways have to get ripped up.”
But the old ways are not gone yet. As midtown has been transformed by tourism, soaring commercial rents and proliferating chain stores, the diamond district seems to stand out more than ever as an anachronism.
Compared with the high-end flagship shops on Fifth Avenue — Cartier, Harry Winston, Tiffany & Co. — 47th Street feels like a time warp. Makeshift synagogues and kosher eateries are wedged between jewelry office suites. On the sidewalk, Hasidic diamond dealers haggle on flip phones while groups of men smoke and banter in various languages and hawkers try to lure passersby into showrooms.
Agadjani sneers at all that. Who needs a hawker when his Instagram posts and TikTok videos bring in millions of views a day? “We do $20 million on the daily between all of us,” he said, referring to the volume of the whole district. He has now been on the block for 18 years, and his shop does more than $30 million in annual sales.
He started the company with a high school graduation gift of $1,500 and sold jewelry on consignment on eBay. Now he focuses on popularizing his brand through social media, publicity stunts and a YouTube reality show called “The District.”
He gets lots of mileage out of beefs with rappers and reality show stars. His feud with Brooklyn-based rapper Tekashi69 became publicity pay dirt when 50 Cent came to Tekashi’s defense and called Agadjani a “sucker.” It didn’t matter that Agadjani was ridiculed — the post went viral.
“The past is the past, and things are evolving super quickly,” he said. “While one part of the district is dying, another part is being born.”
New York’s Most Precious Export
With all due respect to Agadjani’s swagger, he did not invent the 47th Street hustle.
The jewelry district in New York emerged in the 1800s as a cluster of shops in lower Manhattan. Later on, Jewish diamond merchants fleeing Europe before World War II began setting up on 47th Street.
Much of the industry’s roots in Orthodox Jewish parts of Eastern Europe is reflected in the block’s own vocabulary, largely Yiddish. A “strop” is a second-rate stone that won’t sell; it’s “khazeray” or “shlok” — garbage. Merchants share a secret code to freely discuss a “gee,” or customer. A “2-10” is a warning to keep “two eyes on 10 fingers” when serving a potential thief.
This secret world is revealed on the upper floors above the showrooms in a honeycomb of cramped workshops, retail stalls and anonymous office suites. Here, the polishers, sorters, appraisers, graders and bench jewelers toil behind locked double-door vestibules (“man-traps”) that allow visitors to be checked before entry and exit.
Even with all the challenges, jewelry, gems and precious metals from the diamond district are still among New York state’s most valuable exports, and the stores around 47th Street make up the largest diamond market in the country, a conduit for an estimated 90% of the diamonds imported into the United States. High-end pieces that end up for sale at Tiffany and Harry Winston often begin their lives here as raw material.
“I mean, other than bagels, what else is made in New York anymore?” said Romy Schreiber, whose grandmother started Gumuchian Jewelry, one of the only matrilineal businesses that have endured among diamond dealers.
The district can be intimidating to outsiders not accustomed to the hard sell.
On a recent weekday, a woman holding a cardboard sign — “WE BUY CASH LOAN” — tried to flag down passersby on the block. The woman, Mirta Kuzmana, is perhaps the only female hawker there. She can speak five languages, including her native Latvian, and makes $70 a day luring customers into a pawnshop.
“I show you the best deals anywhere,” she said to a family of tourists. They declined and sidestepped her, and she directed her sidewalk pitch to the next comers.
Across the street, Richie Winick leaned over the display case of his stall in a bustling exchange.
“It’s not beautiful like Madison Avenue, but if you know the people you’re dealing with, you’ll pay much less,” Winick said. Now 62, he runs the jewelry company his father started almost 70 years ago. Compared with Weitman’s laborious craftsmanship or Agadjani’s social media savvy, his business is more representative of the district, though he has rolled with the times by sharing office space with an Indian firm that specializes in lab-grown diamonds.
Still, the old-school barter economy persists. Many deals are done on credit, with millions of dollars entrusted to a handwritten memo and a handshake and a blessing of “mazel und brucha” — Yiddish for “luck and blessing.”
“You can have a $10 million deal just by signing your name,” Winick said. “Where else can you do that?”
A customer appeared in his shop looking for a diamond ring for his girlfriend, and Winick went into his spiel. “Here, look at this,” he began. “This is a $200,000 stone at Tiffany’s, but you save 50 cents on the dollar by shopping on 47th Street.” The customer opted for a smaller diamond. A good choice, Winick told him.
“You know the 11th Commandment, right?” he added. “Thou shalt not pay retail.”
It is unclear where modernization will leave someone like Weitman, who regards his 40-year career as an obsessive quest for the ultimate cut that makes a diamond dazzle with light. He called it a mystical pursuit that blends optical physics, the eye of an artist and the touch of a surgeon. One of his devoted following of dealers referred to him as “the man with the diamond eyes.”
In the cutting room, he resembled a painter at his canvas, pulling back periodically to evaluate his work by lifting the gem to an overhead lamp. He peered through a magnifying loupe into its tiny twinkling windows to inspect cuts made for maximum brilliance and scintillation crucial to the stone’s beauty.
Ideas for new designs germinate without warning and are fleshed out through trial and error. But they are executed in the shop, where he can spend weeks on a single stone.
“When you’re cutting, there is nothing else,” said Weitman, who has spent all-nighters lost in his work in the shop. “It’s like watching Michael Jordan play against the Knicks. It’s excitement beyond anything you could imagine.”
Cutters work under high pressure. They must preserve valuable carat weight while managing the constant risk of shattering the gem with a single misplaced cut. “If you hit a gletz” — an imperfection — “it can shatter,” Weitman said. “Sometimes it can’t be prevented. It’s a terrible feeling.”
One of Weitman’s dealers, Charles Paskesz, 53, started as a diamond cutter, but while he was working on a $15,000 stone, it suddenly shattered. Plagued with nightmares, he quit cutting.
“I never put another stone on the wheel,” said Paskesz, now a diamond dealer with IGC Group, a large Belgian company with an office in the district.
The Influencer and the Artisan
The stakes are also high for the new breed of diamond dealers. A showroom down the block from TraxNYC that also caters to a hip-hop clientele was held up by armed robbers several years back and now has security guards who look like nightclub bouncers.
For Agadjani, who grew up in Rego Park, Queens, after his parents emigrated from Azerbaijan when he was 7, this is the culture he knows. “My father told me, ‘This is a place with real opportunity,’” said Agadjani, who graduated from Forest Hills High School. “I sized up America quick enough.”
At one point he dressed one of his sales agents in a squirrel costume to make another goofball post goading a rival. Nothing like a good social media beef to flog the brand.
Agadjani’s recent social media dust-up with Scott Disick, an influencer and reality TV star on “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” turned into marketing gold. Calling out Disick on Instagram was a boon for the jeweler’s brand, as was the very public way Agadjani delivered a custom-made gremlin necklace to Kodak Black: He strolled onstage at a concert in Miami and fastened it around his neck as a sea of smartphones captured the moment.
As much as Agadjani may distance himself from the diamond district’s more traditional business methods, he will admit one thing: Location is crucial.
“I’m not getting my jewelry from Walmart,” he said. “I have to manufacture it, and this block is a factory. Everyone is critical. One guy’s polishing, another guy’s casting, another’s soldering. This guy’s setting gemstones, that guy’s an enameler.”
Although Agadjani and Weitman seem like opposites, they are similar in their obsessional pursuit as jewelers, to the point of losing sleep.
“I’d like to meet him,” Agadjani said as his team slapped some taunting graphics on the squirrel video and posted it. “Guys like him — that’s why I’m here.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Yiddish language; Diamonds; Sales; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Sales Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Belgium; Smartphones; Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); YoutubeCom; Real Estate (Commercial); Diamonds; Forest Hills (Queens, Ny); Harry Winston Inc; Eastern Europe; United States; Company Reports; Demolition; Cardi B (1992 ); Reality Television; Octave, Dieuson (Kodak Black); International Trade And World Market; Metals And Minerals; Financial District (Manhattan, Ny); Ebay Inc; Rap And Hip Hop; Kilgannon, Corey; Traxnyc (Manhattan, Ny, Retailer); Weitman, Zev; Jewel; Latvia; Azerbaijan; Europe; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Instagram Inc; Gold; Outsourcing; Brooklyn (Nyc); Shopping And Retail; Jewels And Jewelry; Customer Relations; Agadjani, Maksud; Tiffany; Art; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Tiktok (Bytedance); Factories And Manufacturing; Basketball; Computer And Video Games; 50 Cent; Rego Park (Queens, Ny); Labor And Jobs; Robberies And Thefts; New York Knicks; United States International Relations; Walmart Stores Inc; Busta Rhymes; Madison Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Television; Security And Warning Systems; Queens (Nyc); Jews And Judaism; Matter Ventures; Bars And Nightclubs; Manhattan (Nyc); Yiddish Language; Diamond District (Manhattan, Ny); Midtown Area (Manhattan, Ny); Luxury Goods And Services; Age, Chronological; Cartier Sa

Title: Pre-rolled Joints and TikTok Feuds: This Is the Diamond District?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-22T15:38:47Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804315707

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pre-rolled-joints-tiktok-feuds-this-is-diamond/docview/2804315707/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The New Tiffany, Unboxed With a Splash: [Style Desk]

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-tiffany-unboxed-with-splash/docview/2803171061/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For nearly four years, the Tiffany & Company flagship store on the corner of Fifth Avenue and East 57th Street was shrouded in scaffolding while it underwent a full-bore renovation. In the days before the reopening, set for April 28, a Tiffany executive vice president, Alexandre Arnault, and the company's chief executive, Anthony Ledru, monitored final preparations as they whispered to each other in French.
Display cases glittered with Tiffany pieces -- heart tag bracelets, Elsa Peretti Bone cuffs and Paloma Picasso necklaces. Digital screens encircling the room showed an animation of a diamond-encrusted bird fluttering across the New York City skyline.
"We asked ourselves lots of questions going into this," Mr. Ledru, 50, said. "Are we going to change the feel? Do we respect tradition? We decided to do both."
He gestured toward the digitized bird, noting that it was based on a design by the noted Tiffany jewelry artist Jean Schlumberger.
"There's that tension: modernity and heritage," he said.
A lot has changed at Tiffany since the makeover began. Namely, the company's ownership. In 2021, after fraught negotiations, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton acquired Tiffany for about $ 16 billion. The sale was one of the largest deals ever in the luxury world, as well as LVMH's most significant American brand acquisition to date.
In effect, the jewelry emporium became the property of Bernard Arnault, the 74-year-old founder, chairman and largest shareholder of LVMH, who recently dethroned Elon Musk as the world's richest person, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Over three decades, he has built a kingdom of more than 75 brands, including Dior, Celine, TAG Heuer, Bulgari, Fendi, Dom Pérignon and Sephora.
As construction workers toiled away on the ground floor last week, one of Mr. Arnault's five children, Alexandre Arnault, 30, stood near the spot where "Equals Pi," a painting by Jean-Michel Basquiat, would go. The painting, which features a shade of blue similar to Tiffany's signature color, appeared prominently in Tiffany's 2021 "About Love" ad campaign starring Jay-Z and Beyoncé.
"When people enter from Fifth Avenue, they will see the Basquiat," said Alexandre Arnault, who wore a Dior suit and Loro Piana sneakers. "It's an important part of the Tiffany brand now."
Tall and lanky, Mr. Arnault, who is responsible for much of Tiffany's creative vision, was one of the architects of the "About Love" campaign. The use of the Basquiat spurred a bit of controversy when a former Basquiat assistant insisted that the artist hadn't intended any homage to the brand.
But that didn't matter much from a marketing perspective: The Tiffany name was in the news for days, signaling that it no longer belonged solely to the era when Holly Golightly (portrayed by Audrey Hepburn) admired the vitrines of its flagship in the 1961 film "Breakfast at Tiffany's." The new Tiffany, the LVMH Tiffany, was showing itself as a brand that could also be disruptive and viral.
Amid speculation about which of the Arnault children will succeed the LVMH founder, Alexandre Arnault was tasked with the job of overseeing the renovation of the Tiffany store, which the company calls the Landmark. Before moving from Paris to New York two years ago to immerse himself in the project, he reinvigorated the luggage company Rimowa, another LVMH brand, through collaborations with Virgil Abloh and Supreme.
Mr. Ledru, the Tiffany chief executive, who was born in the Brittany area of France and raised in Lille, is a luxury industry veteran who has worked for Louis Vuitton, Harry Winston and Cartier. When a droplet of blood appeared on his chin that afternoon, the result of a shaving cut, a publicist hurried to fetch him a napkin.
"This is not just another flagship," Mr. Ledru said. "For us, the Landmark is now the lighthouse of the brand."
The reboot left the building's facade untouched, and the Atlas statue clock still sits above its entrance, but it spared little else. The Landmark unabashedly represents LVMH's desire to imprint its DNA onto the company founded in 1837 by Charles Lewis Tiffany and John B. Young.
The Tiffany flagship opened on Fifth Avenue in 1940. When the gut renovation began in 2019, the store moved into the former Niketown site next door. The Landmark was designed by the architect Peter Marino, and its 10 floors are replete with works by artists like Damien Hirst, Jenny Holzer, Richard Prince and Rashid Johnson. Flashy accouterments include a Daniel Boulud restaurant, the Blue Box Cafe, which serves a "Breakfast at Tiffany" meal, and an Audrey Hepburn experience room that features a replica of her black Givenchy dress from the movie's opening scene. (LVMH acquired Givenchy in 1988.)
"People relate a lot to her when it comes to Tiffany," Mr. Arnault said. "So we wanted to make a homage to her."
While giving a tour of the building to a reporter, the two executives walked up an undulating mirror-lined staircase inspired by Ms. Peretti's designs. The third floor specialized in wedding and engagement rings, the fourth in gold and diamonds, the fifth in silver and the sixth in home goods and accessories. The seventh floor included a Patek Philippe department and a jewelry workshop.
Mr. Ledru described the nuances that went into designing each floor, while Mr. Arnault strayed from the press tour, inspecting side rooms and taking photos with his phone.
Earlier, the two executives had sat for a more formal interview on a green couch in a book-lined room. Conservative and tight-lipped in its approach to public relations, LVMH would not disclose the Landmark's construction cost. A publicist, who sat in on the interview, said beforehand that inquiries about the LVMH succession were off-limits. Nonetheless, Mr. Arnault and Mr. Ledru fielded a few hot-seat questions.
At age 30, was Mr. Arnault feeling any heat to deliver on his mission for the family?
"Am I sweating?" he said. "No. Because I'm surrounded by the best professionals we could have."
On the eve of the Landmark's opening, were they concerned about talk that a recession may be on its way?
"There's ups and downs, but the one thing about the U.S. is that it comes back strong," Mr. Ledru said. "New York is much stronger now than it was last year and the year before. I don't want to be overly confident, but we're happy to finally open our doors.
Mr. Arnault added: "We're releasing our Q1 numbers for LVMH tomorrow. I encourage you to have a look."
(The day after the interview, LVMH reported a 17 percent rise in first-quarter sales, surpassing analyst expectations. In response, French workers protesting against pension changes stormed LVMH's Paris headquarters, calling for the rich to contribute more financing to the state pension.)
If they weren't nervous about the economy, were they worried about anything else?
"I'm anxious for the first holiday season," Mr. Arnault said. "It's such an important part of American culture. This is the first one back at the original Tiffany's corner."
"We were a lot more anxious a year ago, when we were receiving phone calls from Mr. Arnault asking, 'When do you open?"' Mr. Ledru said.
After the two men finished their tour of the Landmark, they stepped onto the building's eighth floor deck. They stood in the fresh spring breeze as they took in the view of Fifth Avenue.
"Pas mal, non?" Mr. Ledru said. ("Not bad, no?")
While construction workers hammered away behind them, hurrying to add the final touches on a glass-walled event space, Mr. Arnault took note of several other LVMH properties within his sight: There was Louis Vuitton just across the street, Bulgari opposite it and Dior down the way.
He smiled.
"I can spy on them," Mr. Arnault said. "I can make sure they're working from here."
Photograph Above and bottom, the remodeled interior of Tiffany & Company's flagship store in Manhattan. Left, Anthony Ledru, Tiffany's chief executive, at left, and Alexandre Arnault, an executive vice president, on the store's staircase, which was inspired by Elsa Peretti's jewelry designs. The renovated store showcases various luxury items, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANDON NORDEMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Jewelry; Painting

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Hepburn, Audrey

Company / organization: Name: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; NAICS: 312130, 315210, 316990, 325620, 339910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/19/style/the-new-tiffany-unboxed.html

Title: The New Tiffany, Unboxed With a Splash:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 20, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2803171061

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-tiffany-unboxed-with-splash/docview/2803171061/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The New Tiffany, Unboxed

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-tiffany-unboxed/docview/2803074758/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — For nearly four years, the Tiffany & Co. flagship store on the corner of Fifth Avenue and East 57th Street was shrouded in scaffolding while it underwent a full-bore renovation. In the days before the reopening, set for April 28, a Tiffany executive vice president, Alexandre Arnault, and the company’s CEO, Anthony Ledru, monitored final preparations as they whispered to each other in French.
Display cases glittered with Tiffany pieces — heart tag bracelets, Elsa Peretti bone cuffs and Paloma Picasso necklaces. Digital screens encircling the room showed an animation of a diamond-encrusted bird fluttering across the New York City skyline.
“We asked ourselves lots of questions going into this,” Ledru, 50, said. “Are we going to change the feel? Do we respect tradition? We decided to do both.”
He gestured toward the digitized bird, noting that it was based on a design by noted Tiffany jewelry artist Jean Schlumberger.
“There’s that tension: modernity and heritage,” he said.
A lot has changed at Tiffany since the makeover began. Namely, the company’s ownership. In 2021, after fraught negotiations, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton acquired Tiffany for about $16 billion. The sale was one of the largest deals ever in the luxury world, as well as LVMH’s most significant American brand acquisition to date.
In effect, the jewelry emporium became the property of Bernard Arnault, the 74-year-old founder, chair and largest shareholder of LVMH, who recently dethroned Elon Musk as the world’s richest person, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Over three decades, he has built a kingdom of more than 75 brands, including Dior, Celine, TAG Heuer, Bulgari, Fendi, Dom Pérignon and Sephora.
As construction workers toiled away on the ground floor last week, one of Arnault’s five children, Alexandre Arnault, 30, stood near the spot where “Equals Pi,” a painting by Jean-Michel Basquiat, would go. The painting, which features a shade of blue similar to Tiffany’s signature color, appeared prominently in Tiffany’s 2021 “About Love” ad campaign starring Jay-Z and Beyoncé.
“When people enter from Fifth Avenue, they will see the Basquiat,” said Alexandre Arnault, who wore a Dior suit and Loro Piana sneakers. “It’s an important part of the Tiffany brand now.”
Tall and lanky, Arnault, who is responsible for much of Tiffany’s creative vision, was one of the architects of the “About Love” campaign. The use of the Basquiat spurred a bit of controversy when a former Basquiat assistant insisted that the artist hadn’t intended any homage to the brand.
But that didn’t matter much from a marketing perspective: The Tiffany name was in the news for days, signaling that it no longer belonged solely to the era when Holly Golightly (portrayed by Audrey Hepburn) admired the vitrines of its flagship in the 1961 film “Breakfast at Tiffany’s.” The new Tiffany, the LVMH Tiffany, was showing itself as a brand that could also be disruptive and viral.
Amid speculation about which of the Arnault children will succeed the LVMH founder, Alexandre Arnault was tasked with the job of overseeing the renovation of the Tiffany store, which the company calls the Landmark. Before moving from Paris to New York two years ago to immerse himself in the project, he reinvigorated the luggage company Rimowa, another LVMH brand, through collaborations with Virgil Abloh and Supreme.
Ledru, the Tiffany CEO, who was born in the Brittany area of France and raised in Lille, France, is a luxury industry veteran who has worked for ​​Louis Vuitton, Harry Winston and Cartier. When a droplet of blood appeared on his chin that afternoon, the result of a shaving cut, a publicist hurried to fetch him a napkin.
“This is not just another flagship,” Ledru said. “For us, the Landmark is now the lighthouse of the brand.”
The reboot left the building’s facade untouched, and the Atlas statue clock still sits above its entrance, but it spared little else. The Landmark unabashedly represents LVMH’s desire to imprint its DNA onto the company, which was founded in 1837 by Charles Lewis Tiffany and John B. Young.
The Tiffany flagship opened on Fifth Avenue in 1940. When the gut renovation began in 2019, the store moved into the former Niketown site next door. The Landmark was designed by architect Peter Marino, and its 10 floors are replete with works by artists such as Damien Hirst, Jenny Holzer, ​Richard Prince and Rashid Johnson. Flashy accouterments include a Daniel Boulud restaurant, the Blue Box Cafe, which serves a “Breakfast at Tiffany” meal, and an Audrey Hepburn experience room that features a replica of her black Givenchy dress from the movie’s opening scene. (LVMH acquired Givenchy in 1988.)
“People relate a lot to her when it comes to Tiffany,” Arnault said. “So we wanted to make a homage to her.”
While giving a tour of the building to a reporter, the two executives walked up an undulating mirror-lined staircase inspired by Peretti’s designs. The third floor specialized in wedding and engagement rings, the fourth in gold and diamonds, the fifth in silver and the sixth in home accessories. The seventh floor included a Patek Philippe department and a jewelry workshop.
Ledru described the nuances that went into designing each floor, while Arnault strayed from the press tour, inspecting side rooms and taking photos with his phone.
Earlier, the two executives had sat for a more formal interview on a green couch in a book-lined room. Conservative and tight-lipped in its approach to public relations, LVMH would not disclose the Landmark’s construction cost. A publicist, who sat in on the interview, said beforehand that inquiries about the LVMH succession were off limits. Nonetheless, Arnault and Ledru fielded a few hot-seat questions.
At age 30, was Arnault feeling any heat to deliver on his mission for the family?
“Am I sweating?” he said. “No. Because I’m surrounded by the best professionals we could have.”
On the eve of the Landmark’s opening, were they concerned about talk that a recession may be on its way?
“There’s ups and downs, but the one thing about the U.S. is that it comes back strong,” Ledru said. “New York is much stronger now than it was last year and the year before. I don’t want to be overly confident, but we’re happy to finally open our doors.”
Arnault added: “We’re releasing our Q1 numbers for LVMH tomorrow. I encourage you to have a look.”
(The day after the interview, LVMH reported a 17% rise in first-quarter sales, surpassing analyst expectations. In response, French workers protesting against pension changes stormed LVMH’s Paris headquarters, calling for the rich to contribute more financing to the state pension.)
If they weren’t nervous about the economy, were they worried about anything else?
“I’m anxious for the first holiday season,” Arnault said. “It’s such an important part of American culture. This is the first one back at the original Tiffany’s corner.”
Ledru said he was a lot more anxious a year ago, when Arnault would call and ask, “When do you open?”
After the two men finished their tour of the Landmark, they stepped onto the building’s eighth-floor deck. They stood in the fresh spring breeze as they took in the view of Fifth Avenue.
“Pas mal, non?” Ledru said. (“Not bad, no?”)
While construction workers hammered away behind them, hurrying to add the final touches on a glass-walled event space, Arnault took note of several other LVMH properties within his sight: There was Louis Vuitton just across the street, Bulgari opposite it and Dior down the way.
He smiled.
“I can spy on them,” Arnault said. “I can make sure they’re working from here.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Jewelry; Executives; Renovation & restoration; Painting

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Executives

Location: New York; United States--US; France

People: Hepburn, Audrey

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; NAICS: 312130, 315210, 316990, 325620, 339910

Identifier / keyword: Bulgari Spa; Away (Jrsk Inc); Budgets And Budgeting; Johnson, Rashid (1977 ); Politics And Government; Bloomberg News; Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Lifestyle; Abloh, Virgil; Building (Construction); Sephora; Patek Philippe Sa; Harry Winston Inc; Restaurants; Loro Piana; New York City; Architecture; United States; Lvmh Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton Sa; Company Reports; Relocation Of Business; Long, Michael R; Elections; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Arnault, Bernard; Knowles, Beyonce; Hirst, Damien; Fendi Spa; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Prince, Richard; Shopping And Retail; Weddings And Engagements; Marino, Peter; Jewels And Jewelry; Basquiat, Jean Michel; Art; Pensions And Retirement Plans; Arnault, Alexandre; Advertising And Marketing; Senses And Sensation; Musk, Elon; Heat And Heat Waves; Jay Z; Paris (France); Holzer, Jenny; Tiffany & Company; Home Repairs And Improvements; Louis Vuitton; Rimowa Gmbh; Brittany (France); Historic Buildings And Sites; Hepburn, Audrey; Diamonds; Tag Heuer; Tiffany, Charles Lewis; Coronavirus Reopenings; Peretti, Elsa; France; High Net Worth Individuals; Lille (France); Watches And Clocks; Givenchy; Boredom; French Language; Boulud, Daniel; Schlumberger, Jean; Luxury Goods And Services

Title: The New Tiffany, Unboxed

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-20T01:10:18Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2803074758

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-tiffany-unboxed/docview/2803074758/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Santos Received $5,300 in Donations, and Reports Refunding More: [National Desk]

Author: Ashford, Grace; Gold, Michael

Publication info: Ashford, Grace; Gold, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/santos-received-5-300-donations-reports-refunding/docview/2801437326/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Santos, a first-year House Republican from New York, has returned nearly $ 8,400 in donations so far this year, and has reported no spending on lawyers or trips.
During George Santos's run for Congress, he told prospective voters that he hoped one day to be able to "serve and give back to our community."
In his most recent financial disclosures, Mr. Santos, now a first-term Republican congressman representing parts of Queens and Long Island, reported doing just that: He has returned nearly $ 8,400 in donor contributions.
The refunds exceed the $ 5,333.26 that Mr. Santos has raised in the first quarter of 2023, a net loss that lowers his cash on hand to just over $ 25,000, according to the reports filed on Saturday with the Federal Election Commission.
"I don't think I've ever seen a worse report for an incumbent member of Congress," said Brett Kappel, a leading elections lawyer who advises both Democrats and Republicans.
In contrast, Representative Anthony D'Esposito, a first-term Republican who represents a neighboring district in Nassau County, raised more than $ 215,000 from individual donors and more than $ 300,000 from political action committees.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Santos declined to comment on the fund-raising numbers.
Mr. Santos's filings are the first indication of his campaign's activity since he filed paperwork last month signaling his intent to continue raising money for a possible re-election bid. Though Mr. Santos has not publicly said whether he plans to run again, the move allows his campaign to keep raising and spending money.
But those hoping that the filings might offer a window into what exactly Mr. Santos has been doing since taking office in January will be largely disappointed. They show no campaign trips or payments to vendors. Nor do they show payments to any lawyers, despite continuing ethics and criminal investigations.
Mr. Santos has sought to blame his campaign finance issues, which prompted the watchdog group the Campaign Legal Center to file a complaint with the F.E.C., on his former campaign treasurer.
Subsequent filings, including the April quarterly filing, have been signed by his new treasurer, identified as Andrew Olson. But with no payments listed in reports, it would seem that he was not compensated by the campaign for whatever work he did for Mr. Santos.
Mr. Santos's previous treasurer, Nancy Marks, resigned in January, after The New York Times and other news media outlets reported on numerous financial irregularities -- from an odd string of payments for $ 199.99 to hundreds of thousands of dollars in unexplained and unitemized spending.
Of the $ 5,333.26 in recent donations to Mr. Santos, only one donation, for $ 254.95, came from a named donor: Sacha Basin, who listed a New York address. The donor could not be reached for comment. Some of the donors who received refunds were similarly not identified; those that were included Mayra Ruiz and Robert Mangi, whose contributions of $ 2,900 each were returned, and Thomas Zmich, a former House candidate who was refunded $ 500.
Mr. Zmich explained that the money had been for a bus trip to support Mr. Santos on the day of his inauguration; the trip was later canceled. When asked if he still supported the congressman, he was noncommittal: "I couldn't say yes and I couldn't say no."
Ms. Ruiz, a Republican donor in Miami, gave $ 10,800 to Mr. Santos's joint fund-raising committee, and was among the first to give Mr. Santos money after he won the election. She also was one of two wealthy donors who participated in the sale of a $ 19 million luxury yacht that was brokered by Mr. Santos.
Ms. Ruiz did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Mr. Mangi declined to comment.
Aside from public appearances -- a visit to show support for former President Donald J. Trump at his arraignment in Manhattan, several official tours and a handful of television shows and podcasts -- it has been hard to account for what Mr. Santos has been up to since taking office.
Ordinarily, House members' time is taken up by responsibilities related to their committee assignments. But Mr. Santos does not serve on any committees, having opted to resign from his postings at Speaker Kevin McCarthy's urging. Mr. Santos has introduced four bills, none of which have attracted co-sponsors.
But he has remained a vocal and emphatic presence online, where he has bragged about the value of a Cartier watch, decried the detention of a Wall Street Journal reporter in Russia and declared his loyalty to the New York Mets (albeit somewhat unpersuasively).
And he has spoken 18 times on the floor of the house -- the most of any freshman, according to the C-SPAN podcast "The Weekly." He has used the minute-long opportunities that House members are afforded for a broad spectrum of purposes, from disavowing the possibility of a new nuclear accord with Iran to congratulating Jericho High School on Long Island for being granted exclusive rights to put on a musical based on the Disney movie "Frozen."
Photograph Representative George Santos's most recent financial disclosures indicate he has returned nearly $ 8,400 in donor contributions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAIYUN JIANG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A30.

Subject: Financial disclosure; Congressional elections; Political finance

Business indexing term: Subject: Financial disclosure

Location: New York; United States--US; Long Island New York

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/15/nyregion/george-santos-campaign-donations.html

Title: Santos Received $5,300 in Donations, and Reports Refunding More:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.30

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437326

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/santos-received-5-300-donations-reports-refunding/docview/2801437326/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Neal Boenzi, Top Times Photographer for Four Decades, Dies at 97: [Correction]

Author: Sandomir, Richard

Publication info: Sandomir, Richard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/neal-boenzi-top-times-photographer-four-decades/docview/2795912754/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He built a reputation for finding compelling subjects on the street. "Anyone can take a picture," he liked to say, "but are you a journalist?"
Neal Boenzi, a photographer who for more than 40 years at The New York Times deftly captured aspects of city life from firefighters fleeing a falling wall to a man walking a goose, died on Monday at an elder care facility in Newhall, Calif. He was 97.
His daughter, Jeanette Boenzi, confirmed the death.
Mr. Boenzi's photographs usually accompanied breaking news coverage and longer articles. But they also included many so-called day shots: photographs he took when he was told to be creative and find pictures that brightened readers' days.
"There's an aspect of Weegee in his photographs, that grittiness of New York, but with a lighter touch, less macabre," Fred Ritchin, dean emeritus of the International Center of Photography, said in a phone interview, referring to the celebrated New York City tabloid photographer of the 1930s and '40s. "Maybe even a New York version of the humanism that one sees in the work of French photographers such as Robert Doisneau and Cartier-Bresson."
In July 1962, Mr. Boenzi (pronounced boe-EN-zee) left a steakhouse in Manhattan to rush to the Bronx, where a five-alarm fire was sweeping through two abandoned buildings. He found a perch on a nearby roof from which he snapped a picture of the falling wall, five firefighters looking as if they were about to run, and a sixth who had begun running. It lent drama to The Times's short, bare-bones account of the blaze.
"When something like that happens in front of you, you're aware of what's going on," he told The Times in a 2013 video, "but the more important thing is 'get the exposure -- did I get it?"'
He would continue to find moments. He shot a famous hug between Fidel Castro, the prime minister of Cuba, and the Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev when they visited the United Nations in 1960. From a high floor of the Empire State Building looking south, he took a front-page photo that showed smog eerily shrouding Manhattan on Thanksgiving morning in 1966, one of the city's worst air pollution days.
He caught a woman who worked for the Communist newspaper The Daily Worker protesting the seizure of its records to a Treasury agent in 1956. He found four men calmly playing cards on a table on the other side of a fence from a garbage-strewn lot in the South Bronx in the 1970s.
Mr. Boenzi was present when a lion was coaxed with sticks to leave his cage and pose with a model at a press preview of the 1966 International Auto Show at the New York Coliseum. The lion posed calmly at first but then suddenly sank its teeth into the model's left thigh; she was taken to a hospital for emergency surgery, which saved her leg. One of Mr. Boenzi's pictures showed a handler trying to pry the lion's mouth from the model's thigh.
"If you asked Neal how he took the terrific pictures he did, he would pretend to click an imaginary camera shutter with his index finger and say, 'It's not this,"' David W. Dunlap, a reporter for The Times, and Librado Romero, a photographer for the paper, wrote in The Times's Lens photography blog in 2010. "Then he would tap his temple with the same finger. 'It's this."'
Neal Boenzi was born on Nov. 15, 1925, in Brooklyn, one of five children. His father, John, was a plumber. His mother, Josephine (Sabbia) Boenzi, was a homemaker. He enrolled at Brooklyn College but left early to enlist in the Marines, where he served as an aviation mechanic from 1942 to 1945.
He did not initially have any thoughts of being a photographer. But after his discharge, a girlfriend told him that The Times was looking to hire an office boy in the photography department for $ 30 a week. He was hired in 1946. He soon became a photo lab assistant and, not long after that, began taking pictures.
He returned to active duty in 1950 for about a year during the Korean War, spending some of it in the photo section of the Second Marine Division at Camp Lejeune, N.C. He was hired by The Times as a staff photographer soon after his service ended.
Mr. Boenzi had a reputation for working very economically; he was able to cover an entire assignment with one single 36-exposure roll.
"He could get something in six frames," Nancy Lee, one of his editors, told Lens in 2013. "I'd wonder why he didn't take any more than that and he'd say, 'Because I didn't need to.' And sure enough, he'd have six frames and five would be usable."
Some of his best pictures were shown in an exhibition, "Vintage Boenzi," at the Jadite Galleries in Manhattan in 2013. "He had a wonderful eye," Roland Sainz, Jadite's owner, said in a phone interview. "He could catch things that a lot of other people might have missed."
Mr. Boenzi's marriage to Lenore Rothstein ended in divorce. His second wife, Olga (Marin) Boenzi, died in 1988. His third marriage, to Janina Sidorowicz, also ended in divorce. Survivors include his daughter and a son, John.
Mr. Boenzi, who retired in 1991, found many of his subjects on the streets of New York City: a young Black boy standing and trying to balance on a wrought-iron fence; a construction worker beating up an opponent of the Vietnam War; people weeping on Veterans Day; a dozen Radio City Rockettes (and one man) sunbathing on what appears to be a roof.
"Anyone can take a picture," Mr. Boenzi liked to say, as Mr. Romero recalled in 2010 in a second Lens post, "but are you a journalist?"
Photograph Neal Boenzi deftly took day shots of New York, such as when smog eerily shrouded Manhattan on Thanksgiving morning in 1966 and children huddled at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in 1969.; In 1962, Mr. Boenzi captured firefighters in the Bronx fleeing a falling wall as a five-alarm blaze engulfed two abandoned buildings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. Boenzi in 1950, a few years after he had begun taking pictures for The Times. This article appeared in print on page A23.

Subject: Photographers; Deaths

Title: Neal Boenzi, Top Times Photographer for Four Decades, Dies at 97:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.23

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2795912754

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/neal-boenzi-top-times-photographer-four-decades/docview/2795912754/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

There's Only One College Rankings List That Matters: [Op-Ed]

Author: Bruni, Frank

Publication info: Bruni, Frank. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-only-one-college-rankings-list-that/docview/2793588372/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: DURHAM, N.C. -- Within a few months of joining the faculty at Duke University in 2021, I could spot them: the high school seniors, juniors and even sophomores on their pilgrimages to our verdant and coveted wonderland, with its Gothic Revival spires, ecstatic basketball fans and acceptance rate of 6 percent.
They stood out less for their youth than for their yearning. Sometimes they walked alongside parents every bit as rapt as they were. Sometimes they wandered alone, in a trance. Sometimes they showed up at my office door, not because they were looking for me but because they were looking around, and they liked to peek in on the professors in their path.
We were diamonds, rubies and sapphires in a Cartier display case.
Did they plan to study specifically with one of us? Was our institution particularly strong in the academic disciplines that interested them? Most of them couldn't really tell me why they wanted Duke. They just knew that they should want it. It would validate them. It would impress their friends. Translation: It was highly ranked -- currently tied for the 10th-best university in the country, ahead of half of the Ivy League, according to the justly embattled but perversely enduring bible for such matters, U.S. News & World Report.
To many anxious teenagers making what feels like the most important decision of their lives, that marker must mean something, so they let it mean almost everything. They come to believe that the luster of the institution they attend, as established by its ranking and its exclusivity, will not only define their place in the world but also determine their professional success and contentment. And they minimize other, better criteria for choosing a college.
That belief in the make-or-break stakes of highly selective schools informs the legal challenge to affirmative action that's currently before the Supreme Court. The case was filed by students who maintain that the policy of considering an applicant's race hurt their chances of admission. The court is expected to rule in June; a majority of justices seem poised to ban such consideration going forward.
None of this drama surprises me. For almost a decade now, I've been writing about and railing against the way in which so many Americans, especially affluent ones, approach the process of applying to colleges, which at some point over the past quarter century devolved into a scholastic version of "The Hunger Games." I've lamented its toll on mental health. I've rued its emphasis on credentials over character and on a rigid, cautious script for education over an organic plot of genuine discovery. I've bemoaned its conflation of brand with worth.
But beyond all that, the process too often fails to do precisely what a new tool that Times Opinion is introducing today does: encourage college-bound students to pause, reflect deeply on what sort of experience they truly want, factor in what's logistically and financially realistic for them and consider a list of colleges assembled along those lines, with fuzzy and subjective metrics like prestige eliminated from the equation.
Over recent decades, tuition at many public and private schools has risen much faster than inflation in general, to heights that have led millions of students to take on a magnitude of debt that dogs them and dictates their job decisions deep into their post-college lives. Still other students wonder whether college is even worth it in the end. The sticker price for tuition, room, board and required fees at some private schools is now over $ 80,000 per year.
Small wonder, then, that when The Times and Morning Consult surveyed 2,000 young people between the ages of 16 and 19 and another 2,000 between the ages of 22 and 30, those respondents rated the affordability of tuition and their likely earnings after graduation as the most important factors in the college experience -- many times more important than, say, whether varsity sports are a major part of campus life or how small the size of a typical class is.
The Times's interactive interface lets students see the colleges whose alumni tend, on average, to earn the highest incomes a decade after enrollment.
A student body's racial diversity, its economic diversity, its overall size and whether a school is in an urban, suburban or rural location: These attributes and more can be added to a search and weighted, to produce a menu of options that align with students' specific preferences and, more to the point, their most closely held values. That's only fitting: Where to attend college is a big decision, if not nearly as consequential as many young people believe, because college is a serious commitment of time and money. It shouldn't be outsourced to U.S. News, Forbes or any other organization spitting out a one-size-fits-all hierarchy with a debatable methodology dictated by nameless, faceless number crunchers.
And maybe we're inching toward the day when it won't be. Since the publication of my book about all of this, "Where You Go Is Not Who You'll Be: An Antidote to the College Admissions Mania," in 2015, I've seen baby steps of progress, especially over the past year. In November, Yale and Harvard announced that their law schools would no longer participate in U.S. News rankings. Several similarly venerated law schools and several top-ranked medical schools followed suit. Then, last month, Colorado College pulled out of the U.S. News rankings of national colleges, though it had consistently landed in the top 30. In a statement explaining that decision, its president observed that the rankings are driven largely by the magnitude of an institution's wealth and general, longstanding reputation. Both measures tend to be self-perpetuating. Neither tells students all that much about what their experience at a school will be like.
"I have a lot of hope that this is the turning point," Angel Pérez, the chief executive officer for the National Association for College Admission Counseling, told me recently. Pérez has been working in the field of college admissions for decades -- he was in charge of admissions at Trinity College in Hartford, Conn., for many years. He said that change is definitely in order, because too many students simply take the most obvious cues from the culture around them, latching onto national or regional brand names that seem vaguely dependable. During his travels around the country to talk with prospective college applicants, he has had students reflexively proclaim, "I want to go to Harvard!"
"And I'd say, 'Where is Harvard located?' They couldn't tell me," he recalled.
Of course, most high school students who want a college degree can't and don't harbor such ambitions. They need to go to college part-time, to choose public institutions within commuting distance from their parents' homes, to select the cheapest option or to find a place that takes almost all comers, because they struggled through high school and emerged with unremarkable transcripts. Only a privileged minority of young people can even think about playing "The Hunger Games," and many of them simply turn in whatever direction all the other contestants are headed.
Brian Casey, the president of Colgate University, marveled to me: "Our applications for admission, which hovered around 9,000 for many, many years, suddenly doubled to 17,500. Then they increased to over 21,000. We have to turn away students who want tours and we find ourselves looking at an admit rate of 10 percent. Has this deterred students from applying? No. We find interest growing even further. I am left wondering: Is Colgate more desirable because it is more desired?"
Well, yes. Higher education is a marketplace. And many of its consumers care more about how they can outwardly trade on their college degree than about how it will inwardly transform them. "I saw this firsthand during a lunch with first-year students that had just unpacked their bags the prior day," David Schanzer, a fellow professor of public policy at Duke, wrote in December in his newsletter, Perilous Times. "I started the lunch conversation asking the students what they were most looking forward to about college and, I kid you not, one of them asked me what activities they should do to maximize their chances for admission to law school. When I answered that the best approach was to find something they loved doing and doing it well and that Duke didn't have a pre-law program, the student's response was, 'Why not?"'
The Times's tool is a helpful and necessary instrument for pushing back against such superficial judgments. As I instructed it to show me only schools in cities and suburbs, and then adjusted the degree of importance I wanted it to place on, say, "campus safety" or "party scene," I watched the list of institutions change and then change again. And I was struck by a sense of possibility -- by how much is out there and how frequently that's overlooked.
I was conversely impressed by how well college-bound students could home in on a short list of schools truly tailored to their needs. The madness of the admission process and students' sense of desperation would be lessened greatly if they simply weren't applying to so many more schools than their predecessors did.
A few weeks ago, I reached out to students I've taught at Duke and asked them about the work and worry that propelled them here. Few had qualms with how everything turned out. Many had misgivings about the journey to this point.
Sophie Riegel, a psychology major who will graduate in May, said that no one could have convinced her younger self "that a brand-name school is overrated, that I'd be happy anywhere." "In my mind," she wrote in an email to me, "if I didn't get into Duke, my life was over." She finds that silly now. The way she described her college years, they have been less about some charmed environment than about the discrete challenges she took on and the specific skills she decided to hone. Duke was to some extent incidental in that. "Maybe it's time people ask themselves why they are going to college," she wrote. "Getting a degree is not equivalent to getting an education."
Mia Meier, an interdisciplinary studies major also nearing the end of her time at Duke, expressed a similar puzzlement at the weight that she and her high school classmates attached to the names of the colleges they applied to. "I would tell a high school sophomore to find ways of building self-esteem outside of anchoring it to their college aspirations," Meier wrote to me, adding that energy is better spent "participating in a community, serving others or nurturing creativity and a sense of wonder."
As I read Riegel's and Meier's responses, I got an unsolicited email from one of those high school students who'd shown up at my office door. "I recently got deferred from Duke, however, it still remains my #1 choice," he wrote. "I am still willing to do anything to get in."
I replied: "I promise you that you'll love other schools on your list, too." But I knew, as I pressed send, how unlikely he was to believe that. Heedlessly, we've constructed a culture that gives him and his peers a different, crueler message, clouding the real purpose and promise of college -- and sullying the joy of it.
Illustration by Rose Wong. Graphics by Quoctrung Bui and Gus Wezerek.
Frank Bruni (@FrankBruni) is a professor of journalism and public policy at Duke University, the author of "The Beauty of Dusk" and a contributing Opinion writer. He writes a weekly email newsletter and can be found on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. He graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
Illustration by Rose Wong. Graphics by Quoctrung Bui and Gus Wezerek.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page SR8.

ERIC Subject: Private Schools; College Applicants; Urban Schools; High School Students; Young Adults; Hunger; Intellectual Disciplines; College Admission; Tuition; College Bound Students; School Safety

Subject: Students; Law schools; College admissions; Private schools; Secondary schools

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/27/opinion/problem-college-rankings.html

Title: There's Only One College Rankings List That Matters:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2793588372

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-only-one-college-rankings-list-that/docview/2793588372/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bobbi Ercoline, 73, Who Embodied Peace and Love in a Woodstock Hug: [Biography]

Author: Traub, Alex

Publication info: Traub, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bobbi-ercoline-73-who-embodied-peace-love/docview/2791474743/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Embracing her boyfriend, a blanket around them, she appeared on the cover of the ubiquitous soundtrack album of "Woodstock," the 1970 documentary film about the music festival.
Bobbi Ercoline, who one morning during the Woodstock music festival rested her head on her boyfriend's chest and in that drowsy moment became a symbol of 1960s hippiedom, died on March 18 at her home in Pine Bush, N.Y. She was 73.
Her Woodstock boyfriend and later her husband, Nick Ercoline, said the cause was leukemia.
About a half-million people attended the Woodstock Music and Art Fair, Aug. 15-18, in 1969, a cultural phenomenon that has endured in the popular imagination partly with the help of "Woodstock," a 1970 documentary, and its album soundtrack, featuring Jimi Hendrix, Joan Baez, Jefferson Airplane, Richie Havens and many more musicians.
Ms. Ercoline's tender moment became the subject of a photograph chosen for the cover of the soundtrack album, a three-LP set that was once a familiar sight in record collections in dorm rooms and coffee houses throughout the country.
Behind a pair of big shades, clad in a multicolored garment and partly covered by a comfy pink-trimmed blanket wrapped around her boyfriend, she seemed to embody the flower-child spirit.
In fact, she and Nick represented something else: the broad appeal held by the counterculture of the 1960s.
Mr. Ercoline was a bartender and construction laborer putting himself through college. Ms. Ercoline -- Bobbi Kelly at the time -- was a bank clerk. They were observant Roman Catholics working in Middletown, a small city near the festival site in upstate New York, and had begun dating on Memorial Day weekend.
A fuller version of the photograph than appeared on the "Woodstock" album shows, to the right of the Ercolines, a sleeping young friend of theirs, Jim "Corky" Corocoran. Far from being a draft card-burner, he had recently returned from duty with the Marines in Vietnam.
The $ 18 tickets to Woodstock struck the couple as pricey, and initially they did not plan to go.
On the festival's first night, they sat on Ms. Ercoline's front porch with friends, including Mr. Corcoran, listening to the radio. Newscasters spoke of colossal traffic jams and hordes of young people.
At about 8 o'clock the next morning, the group got into Mr. Corcoran's mother's 1965 Chevy Impala station wagon and set out to see what all the fuss was about.
They ditched the car miles from the festival, held on a farm in Bethel, N.Y., and continued down a back road on foot. Ms. Ercoline found the blanket, which had been discarded, on the way. They also picked up a Californian, named Herbie, who was on a bad acid trip. He supplied the plastic butterfly attached to a wooden staff in the photo.
The photographer who happened upon the group was Burk Uzzle, freelancing for the Magnum agency. He had visited the concert stage but decided that the story was elsewhere -- the hundreds of thousands of audience members, some tripping, others building tents, skinny-dipping in a pond and sharing crates of bananas and loaves of bread.
Mr. Uzzle woke up at about 4:30 on Sunday morning and roved through the crowd. He spotted Bobbi and Nick from about 15 feet away and made use of advice from the Magnum founder Henri Cartier-Bresson, who had told him to study the detailed compositions of the Quattrocento painters of Renaissance Italy, as Mr. Uzzle told The New York Times in 2019.
"I walk up and I know the curvature of the hill has to work with the curvature of the heads," he recalled. "And there's the flag, it's going to have to be there, and just enough of the people."
The day the "Woodstock" soundtrack came out, Mr. Corcoran bought a copy, and the group gathered to listen to it. They did not immediately realize that they were pictured on the cover because they had looked first at the back of the record sleeve to see which songs had been included.
"That's when I realized I needed to tell my mother that I had gone to Woodstock," Ms. Ercoline told The New York Post in 2019, on Woodstock's 50th anniversary.
The group's initial intent was to get home in time for church on Sunday, she told New York's Eyewitness News in an interview the same year. The picture was incriminating, she said with a smile: "Proof that I did not go to Mass."
Barbara du-Wan Kelly was born on June 14, 1949, in Middletown and grew up not far away in the hamlet of Pine Bush. Her father, John, was a mechanic, and her mother, Eleanor (Gihr) Kelly, was a homemaker.
She and Mr. Ercoline married in 1971. After focusing on raising their sons, Mathew and Luke, she got an associate's degree in nursing at Orange County Community College in 1986. As a nurse, she worked mainly at an elementary school. Mr. Ercoline became a union carpenter and a construction inspector.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Ercoline is survived by her sons; a brother, John; and a sister, Cindy Corcoran (who married one of Mr. Corcoran's brothers); and four grandchildren.
The Ercolines became frequent interview subjects for historians of Woodstock, and they often spoke about their marriage as a symbol of its lasting influence and an example of peace and love in action. Every morning when they woke up and every night before they went to bed, they kissed and held each other for about a minute -- just as they had on a grassy hill in the summer of 1969.
Photograph The Ercolines were back in Bethel, N.Y., in 2019. They often said their marriage was a symbol of Woodstock's lasting influence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN FASTENBERG/REUTERS); The famous 1969 photo of Bobbi Ercoline (then Bobbi Kelly) and her future husband, Nick, forced her to confess to her mother that she had gone to the Woodstock music festival and not to church. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ORIGINAL PHOTO BY BURK UZZLE) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Music festivals; Deaths

People: Ercoline, Bobbi

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/27/arts/music/bobbi-ercoline-dead.html

Title: Bobbi Ercoline, 73, Who Embodied Peace and Love in a Woodstock Hug:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 28, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2791474743

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bobbi-ercoline-73-who-embodied-peace-love/docview/2791474743/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Actress Destined to Be in the Light: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Hoberman, J

Publication info: Hoberman, J. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/actress-destined-be-light/docview/2787436074/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jeanne Moreau's first film as a director is showing for a week at Film Forum, newly restored and seven minutes longer than its 1976 U.S. release.
Movies directed by their stars are a genre unto themselves, one that includes first-person documentaries, avant-garde "psychodramas," and self-portraits like Jeanne Moreau's "Lumière" -- a movie about a fictional actress in her prime.
"Lumière," Moreau's first film as a director, is showing for a week at Film Forum, starting March 17, newly restored and seven minutes longer than the 1976 version released in the United States.
Moreau doesn't assume a role in "Lumière" so much as present herself. Not autobiographical, it is a film about acting, or what Yvonne Rainer called the "lives of performers." Moreau's character, Sarah, is a benign star orbited by three disparate colleagues. Laura (Lucia Bosè), an Italian actress about Sarah's age, is married to a producer and oppressed by her social roles as wife, mother and daughter. Somewhat younger, Julienne (Francine Racette) is a narcissistic (or ambitious) stage actress being stalked by an even more narcissistic American star (Keith Carradine). And Caroline (Caroline Cartier), an insecure neophyte, is struggling with exploitative men and an emotionally abusive partner.
"Lumière," which opened the Second International Festival of Women's Films in 1976, provocatively scheduled before the New York Film Festival that year, is more matter-of-fact than polemical. Several men revolve around Sarah as well. These include the annoying young director who is also her lover (Francis Huster), a saintly older man (François Simon) who helped her survive a personal tragedy, and a moody novelist (Bruno Ganz) to whom she's taken a fancy. Sarah's colleagues seem hemmed in by men who are jealous, predatory and selfish, unable to fathom the female solidarity that the film celebrates. By contrast, she is independent.
As Sarah is in control of her life (and wardrobe), so Moreau appears confident in her direction of a large and talented cast. One of the busiest actors of her generation, whose résumé included work with some of the world's greatest directors -- Antonioni, Buñuel and Welles, among them -- she doesn't lack for visual ideas. (Curiously, the one movie Sarah cites is Ingmar Bergman's "Hour of the Wolf," a gothic tale of an artist's descent into darkness that is the near opposite of "Lumière.")
Fluid and assured, the movie unfolds in the days leading up to Sarah being presented with a lifetime achievement award -- which, in terms of Moreau's career, might almost be "Lumière." Moreau as a filmmaker is less vain than honest in presenting herself as a universally admired professional. When she was interviewed by Richard Eder for The New York Times, she explained that, as a child, she used to sneak off to the theater: "I sat there in the dark and watched all these people in the light on the stage. I got so excited. I thought that I was not destined to be in the dark; my vocation was to be in the light."
Onscreen, Moreau projects self-possession. In its final scene, "Lumière" illustrates another showbiz bromide: The show must go on -- and it is Moreau's show. Her resting-face frown may suggest dour determination, but her moments of levity are surprisingly generous. The "lumière" of the title is also, as the French critic Isabelle Jordan ended her review of the film, that of "the most beautiful smile in French cinema."
Lumière
Through March 23, Film Forum, Manhattan; filmforum.org.
Photograph In "Lumière," Jeanne Moreau's character is a benign star in control of her life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KINO LORBER) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Actors; Motion picture directors & producers; Narcissism

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Moreau, Jeanne

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/14/movies/lumiere-an-actress-destined-to-be-in-the-light.html

Title: An Actress Destined to Be in the Light:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 17, 2023

column: Rewind

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2787436074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/actress-destined-be-light/docview/2787436074/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Met on Instagram and Took Off on TikTok: [Society Desk]

Author: Sadiba Hasan

Publication info: Sadiba Hasan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-met-on-instagram-took-off-tiktok/docview/2785847596/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Nora Achmaoui and Khalid Alherani met on Instagram. One month later, they started a TikTok account that now has 1.3 million followers.
Nora Achmaoui made the first move on Khalid Alherani in September 2021 in typical Gen Z fashion: She liked two of his pictures on Instagram after finding his profile on her explore page.
Although they disagree on what exactly happened next -- she said he immediately liked her "whole feed," while he claimed that could not be possible because he was at the gym at the time -- they both agree that he liked several of her photos in response.
In Instagram culture, liking several photos in return is the indication that there is mutual interest. So, Mr. Alherani was under the impression that Ms. Achmaoui would make the next move. After waiting for a few minutes, he got impatient. He decided to send her a direct message: "Hi, how are you?"
From then on, they "literally spoke every second," Mr. Alherani said. "She was telling me about her whole day and each thing she's doing."
They instantly felt comfortable with each other. "She started sending me weird things, and I started sending her weird things," he said. As an example, he mentioned one instance when she sent him a photo of her nose.
"I was like, 'Why would you send me that?'," Mr. Alherani said. But he found it charming that she was comfortable being herself.
After talking for four days, they had their first date at Dubai Safari Park on Oct. 1.
Mr. Alherani, 25, and Ms. Achmaoui, 27, both live in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. He is Palestinian; she is Moroccan and from Süsterseel, Germany. She moved to Dubai in November 2020.
On their first date, Mr. Alherani recalled that Ms. Achmaoui wore light blue Nike Air Jordan 1s that were several sizes too large. "I could see her feet going in and out and in and out," he said. (In defense, she said she had been "dying to get them," but they were sold out in her size.)
Mr. Alherani was not the only one observing style choices that day, because while Ms. Achmaoui was wearing shoes that were too big, he was wearing clothes that were too small.
"He was wearing a shirt full of colors with neon shoes, and the shirt was maybe two sizes too small," she said. "I remember thinking that he's marriage material, but we definitely need to change the style, that's for sure," she said, playfully. (His response? "Whatever," with an eye roll.)
Mr. Alherani picked her up in his car for their first date, and they went to Ms. Achmaoui's favorite restaurant, Saddle Cafe, for breakfast at 4 p.m. because she forgot to eat that day. Although they had only known each other for four days, he already knew that she had a habit of accidentally skipping meals.
Afterward, at the safari, the two entertained each other with their "silly jokes." "I saw a giraffe, and I just made a stupid joke: 'Oh, she looks like you,"' Mr. Alherani said. "And we kept laughing for the whole day, I don't know why."
They stayed at the safari until it closed, and then had dinner at Bab Al Mansour, a Moroccan restaurant. Mr. Alherani had a family dinner afterward, but he didn't want the first date to end, so he ate dinner twice that night.
Ms. Achmaoui said that she called her mother after she got home that night. "I told her I think I found 'the one,"' she said. Mr. Alherani also called his best friend and told him about how easy their conversations felt on the first date.
"When I sat with her, I really opened up with her," said Mr. Alherani, who is usually a private person.
They have seen each other every single day since their first date, with the exception of one week in August 2022, when Ms. Achmaoui visited her family in Germany.
During their second date at Sunrise Beach, "they chose this life" of marriage, Mr. Alherani said. As they sat in his car by the ocean, drinking acai smoothies from Saddle Cafe, the same restaurant they stopped by on their first date, he confessed to her that he is not yet financially stable. He felt he should tell her from the get-go, as they were already dreaming of a future together.
"I didn't want to waste her time," he said.
"I think this moment was when I fell in love because of his honesty," she said. "I knew even if he's not stable, when we would take this path together, we would succeed."
Ms. Achmaoui's indifference toward Mr. Alherani's financial position motivated him to "push hard," he said. He had graduated earlier that year in March from Near East University, a college in Nicosia, Cyprus, with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering. He was still figuring out his career and was working with his father for his interior design company, Atwaar Decoration Design, for the time being.
Ms. Achmaoui graduated from DHBW Mosbach, a college in Germany, in 2017 with a bachelor's degree in international business, innovation and techniques.
The next day, they visited Abu Dhabi, which is an hour drive away from Dubai. Although Mr. Alherani was born and raised in Dubai, he had never visited Abu Dhabi before, so Ms. Achmaoui served as his tour guide, showing him sites like the Sheikh Zayed Mosque, the Etihad Towers and the Emirates Palace.
A month after they met, in November 2021, they posted a TikTok video of themselves participating in a trend where they tried to trick each other into looking in a specific direction. At the time, Mr. Alherani "hated social media," he said. "I remember how much he was fighting me for posting it," Ms. Achmaoui added. But overnight, the video received 1.5 million views.
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
For Ms. Achmaoui, going viral after one post was a "sign" that they should seriously pursue TikTok as a source of income. They posted four TikToks every day on their couple account, and within the first week, they received 40,000 new followers.
"I promised him if he pushed with me for one year, we're going to have one million followers," she said. "And within one year we received 1.2 million followers."
Today, @noraandkhalid has 1.3 million followers on TikTok. There, they post couples content and skits about relationships. Both are currently full-time content creators.
"It really enabled us to get married so soon because otherwise we wouldn't be financially stable," she said. Ms. Achmaoui is also an entrepreneurial coach for Sheeo Consulting, a company she started in 2019 that helps women start their own businesses. Mr. Alherani is also a personal trainer in mixed martial arts.
On May 28, 2022, on her birthday, he proposed to her on a vacation in Petra, Jordan, though he could not utter any words when he pulled out the diamond ring. "He was just standing in front of me, kneeling with the ring, but not asking anything," Ms. Achmaoui said.
The proposal came as a surprise to Ms. Achmaoui because their original plan had been that she would be the one to propose. "I thought he deserved to be asked and to feel as special as he makes me feel every day," she said. Still, her plan was on.
On Eid al-Adha, July 8, 2022, she proposed to Mr. Alherani in front of his parents and six siblings in his living room, with a white gold and black ceramic ring she purchased for him from Cartier.
"He was so shocked and nervous, and a bit shy, because as Arabs, you usually don't show those emotions in front of your family," Ms. Achmaoui said. "He cried, I cried."
Mr. Alherani was still living with his family in Jumeirah Village Circle, Dubai, at this time, and he moved into Ms. Achmaoui's apartment in the nearby Barsha Heights on the day after their wedding.
On Feb. 22, 2023, the couple were married by Imam Ahmed Maher of Abdullah Mohammad Al Shirawi Mosque at Bab Al Shams Desert Resort, which provided the event space.
The couple received sponsorships from Omer Rasool Events, the planner, and Anastasia Panjinskaya, the videographer and photographer. Their wedding outfits were also gifted: Ms. Achmaoui wore dresses made by Amira Lebsatte, Ezra Couture and Alaa Duba. Mr. Alherani wore outfits by Zaid Farouki and Emad Tariq Hussein.
Their wedding was steeped in Moroccan and Palestinian culture. Inez Atili, a Moroccan singer, performed.
Ms. Achmaoui also sang an original song that she wrote, called "Candle lights and KFC." (KFC is his favorite restaurant.) Although she never sang in front of an audience before, she wanted to surprise him on their wedding day in front of their 120 guests. The song shared personal anecdotes from their love story, including overcoming familial and cultural differences as a Palestinian and Moroccan couple and about the "light feeling" she experiences with him.
"One thing that people always used to tell me is that love is easy, but in my past, love felt like a lot of drama and a lot of heartbreak," Ms. Achmaoui said. "For the first time, with him, love felt easy."
On This Day
When Feb. 22, 2023
Where Bab Al Shams Desert Resort, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Equestrian Entrances Ms. Achmaoui made her bridal entrance on a white horse accompanied with Moroccan folk music by Dakka Marrakchia, and Mr. Alherani entered on a brown horse with Palestinian dabke music. A dance battle ensued, but the couple disagreed on which side outdanced the other. Ms. Achmaoui's family, in the background during a video interview, shouted that the Moroccans won. "No, no, no! Her community is the Moroccans. If I'm going to ask my community, they're going to say the Palestinians," Mr. Alherani said in response.
Food on Wheels Rather than plated or buffet meals, the couple brought in food trucks that served Palestinian food like ouzi (a rice dish) and warak enab (grape leaves) and Moroccan food like couscous and pastilla (chicken pie). For a "modern twist," they had a frozen yogurt truck and a fruit bar, Ms. Achmaoui said.
All White in the Desert: Ms. Achmaoui wore a takshita, a traditional Moroccan two piece dress, and Mr. Alherani wore a qumbaz, a Palestinian garment. Although it was a challenge to get their guests to abide by the all-white theme, it was worth it for the couple. "Everyone looked like angels in the desert," Ms. Achmaoui said.
Photograph Khalid Alherani and Nora Achmaoui got a ride into their Feb. 22 wedding ceremony at Bab Al Shams Desert Resort in Dubai. The newlyweds have 1.3 million followers on TikTok. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATALIE NACCACHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Weddings; Entrepreneurs; Restaurants; Marriage

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Restaurants

Location: Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates; United Arab Emirates; Germany; Dubai United Arab Emirates

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/style/nora-achmaoui-khalid-alherani-wedding.html

Title: They Met on Instagram and Took Off on TikTok:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847596

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-met-on-instagram-took-off-tiktok/docview/2785847596/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Like a (Literary) Lion: 14 New Releases in March: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Khatib, Joumana

Publication info: Khatib, Joumana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/like-literary-lion-14-new-releases-march/docview/2781441358/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A haunting horror novel set a century ago in the American West, Eleanor Catton's first novel in a decade, a Ukrainian war diary and much more.
Biography of X, by Catherine Lacey
After her wife, X -- a controversial interdisciplinary artist -- dies, a former reporter sets out to write her biography. X was always circumspect about the details of her life and she harmed even those closest to her. As she writes, her widow encounters information that turns everything she knew about the woman she loved on its head. The resulting book is a novel masquerading as a fictionalized biography and painful emotional inquiry.
Farrar, Straus and Giroux, March 21
Birnam Wood, by Eleanor Catton
Catton returns with her first novel in 10 years, after her debut, "The Luminaries," won the Booker Prize. In New Zealand, Mira runs Birnam Wood, a "guerrilla gardening group" that plants food and flowers on land where they think no one will notice -- their way of cultivating sustenance outside a capitalist system. When Mira makes a pact with a tech billionaire to secure the group's future, it sets the groundwork for a collision of values.
Farrar, Straus and Giroux, March 7
Flux, by Jinwoo Chong
The lives of three characters converge in this time-traveling debut novel. They're all grieving in some fashion -- Bo's mother died when he was a child, Brandon lost his job and Blue is struggling to reconnect with his family. Along the way, the novel brings in the story of a famous detective show, giving it a noirish, and speculative, bent.
Melville House, March 21
Hello Beautiful, by Ann Napolitano
There are some subtle parallels with "Little Women" in Napolitano's latest novel, which follows the relationship between William, who grew up in an emotionally chilly home, and Julia. Julia's family -- particularly her three sisters -- is warm, mildly chaotic and creative, with each sister playing a specific role (the dreamer, the caregiver). After William and Julia's marriage unravels, the family confronts an existential crisis as their loyalty and love are tested.
Dial Press, March 14
Humanly Possible: Seven Hundred Years of Humanist Freethinking, Inquiry, and Hope, by Sarah Bakewell
In her earlier books, "At the Existentialist Café" and "How to Live," Bakewell introduced readers to the major questions facing the existentialist philosophers. Now, she looks at the long tradition of humanism -- which poses the deceptively simple question of what it means to be human -- weighing the importance of moral versus cultural output, and putting a wide array of thinkers across time and place in dialogue.
Penguin Press, March 28
Lone Women, by Victor LaValle
This new book from the author of "The Changeling" reads like a Western horror story. It's 1915 California, and Adelaide, a young Black woman, flees for Montana after her parents die, hoping to become a homesteader. At first, she is welcomed there, but the unbearable secrets of her past -- symbolized by the mysterious steamer trunk she lugs with her -- threaten her new life.
One World, March 28
The New Earth, by Jess Row
In this new novel, a white, Jewish Manhattan family is rocked by the revelation that its matriarch is half-Black. Soon after, one of the children, working as an activist in the West Bank, is killed by an Israeli soldier. A wedding forces the remaining family members to confront these wounds and decide whether they can rebuild, playing with themes that Row has raised in his earlier writing; his essay collection, "White Flights," looked at what American literature could -- and couldn't -- tell readers about race in the United States.
Ecco, March 28
The Odyssey of Phillis Wheatley: A Poet's Journeys Through American Slavery and Independence, by David Waldstreicher
Wheatley was a young child when she arrived in the United States from West Africa and was sold to a Boston family. Within years, she became the most prominent African American poet of the 18th century. Other studies of her life have focused on her role in trans-Atlantic literature, but Waldstreicher makes the point that beyond that, she was a brilliant writer who was, as Waldstreicher puts it, an "organic intellectual of the enslaved."
Farrar, Straus and Giroux, March 7
Pineapple Street, by Jenny Jackson
In her debut novel, a book editor follows a stratospherically wealthy Brooklyn Heights family as they navigate questions of privilege, love and belonging. (A representative piece of dialogue: "Oh no! I left my Cartier bracelet in Lena's BMW and she's leaving soon for her grandmother's house in Southampton!")
Pamela Dorman Books, March 7
Poverty, by America, by Matthew Desmond
In his Pulitzer Prize-winning book, "Evicted," Desmond, a sociologist, looked at how the wave of evictions after the 2008 financial crash helped engender cycles of poverty. Now, he investigates income inequality in the United States, arguing that the behavior and decisions of wealthy Americans has caused the poverty crisis to endure. He puts it bluntly: "Tens of millions of Americans do not end up poor by a mistake of history or personal conduct. Poverty persists because some wish and will it to."
Crown, March 21
Saving Time: Discovering a Life Beyond the Clock, by Jenny Odell
Odell's previous book, "How to Do Nothing," set off a cultural reckoning: She argued that attention is our most precious resource -- and that to honor its importance, we should invest it in solitude and contemplation. Now, she looks at our understanding of time itself, examining its links to modern ideas around productivity and even climate change.
Random House, March 7
Skinfolk: A Memoir, by Matthew Pratt Guterl
In 1970s New Jersey, Guterl's parents adopted children from Korea, Vietnam and the South Bronx, dreaming of raising a family that, including their two white biological children, was a sort of Noah's ark, with "two of every race." Guterl, now a historian of race at Brown University, writes poignantly about his upbringing, particularly as the family and his siblings battled xenophobia and racism.
Liveright, March 28
The Undertow: Scenes From a Slow Civil War, by Jeff Sharlet
Sharlet has written extensively about religion, fundamentalism and American politics. In a new book, he explores the various forces at play on the far right -- including the rage and paranoia that fuels the movement -- at a time when many in it are preparing for a civil war.
Norton, March 21
War Diary, by Yevgenia Belorusets. Translated by Greg Nissan.
Belorusets, an artist and writer from Kyiv, was in Ukraine when Russia invaded her country, and immediately felt the need to document the effects of the war on ordinary citizens. The book's entries touch on the newfound danger in what used to be commonplace activities and even the dissonance of enjoying a beautiful spring day as war rages on.
New Directions, March 7
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Families & family life; Poverty; Novels; Biographies; Books

Location: United States--US

People: Catton, Eleanor (1985- )

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/01/books/new-march-books.html

Title: In Like a (Literary) Lion: 14 New Releases in March:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 3, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2781441358

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/like-literary-lion-14-new-releases-march/docview/2781441358/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In a Plot Twist, an Editor Turns Debut Author: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Mcgee, Celia

Publication info: Mcgee, Celia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/plot-twist-editor-turns-debut-author/docview/2781062396/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jenny Jackson, a publishing executive with a stellar record as an editor, has a novel of her own, "Pineapple Street." With it come uncertainties she has long helped her authors navigate.
Jenny Jackson means onetime Brooklyn Heights resident Truman Capote no disrespect, and his quote "I live in Brooklyn. By choice" serves as an epigraph to "Pineapple Street," her first novel. But Jackson sets off on a walking tour with a different Brooklyn Heights in her sights.
She gestures toward the red brick Heights Casino, where the novel's old-money Brooklyn plays tennis year-round, and the St. George Hotel, which catered to Brooklyn's rich of the Jazz Age. There's the imposing bay-windowed house on Columbia Heights that inspired the heirloom-stuffed limestone at the heart of the book. And the Joe Coffee on the corner of Pineapple and Hicks streets is where Georgiana, the youngest daughter of "Pineapple Street"'s adamantly Social Register Stockton family, utters the immortal line, "Oh no, I left my Cartier tennis bracelet in Lena's BMW and she's leaving for her grandmother's house in Southampton" as she is fatefully spotted by the reluctant heir to a zillion-dollar defense fortune.
Darley, Georgiana's older sister, is a former finance crusher and increasingly reluctant stay-at- $ 10-million-home mom, while their mother, a ski-pole-thin event planner, has never met an issue of the Yale Alumni Magazine she didn't scour for prospects for her unmarried daughter. Stuck, uncomfortably, in the middle, is Sasha, the middle-class New England girl who has married their brother, Cord, and, despite all signs to the contrary, is referred to as "the Gold Digger" by her sisters-in-law.
"It's the novel Jane Austen would have written," said the author Chris Bohjalian, "if Jane Austen lived in Brooklyn Heights in the 21st century."
But Jane Austen didn't hold a high-profile position in publishing, as well: Jackson, the author with a splashy debut on her hands, is also a vice-president and executive editor at Alfred A. Knopf. Bohjalian is one of her authors.
Jackson's foray into writing came as a surprise to most who know her, not least those who have known her as editor, and raised questions: How will Jackson deploy her skills in her new circumstances? And what does it feel like to be on the other side of the author-publisher relationship?
"It was like finding out your spouse is an Olympic equestrian," said the author Kevin Kwan, who hit the publishing stratosphere with Jackson as his editor on "Crazy Rich Asians." "Or better, given her natural skills, an Olympic gymnast."
Since joining Vintage, Knopf's paperback arm, in 2002, fresh out of Williams and the Columbia Publishing Course, and segueing to Knopf's hardcover shop nine years after that, Jackson, 43, has established herself as a literary hitmaker with a track record of fostering best-selling authors who straddle the line between literary and commercial fiction, and nonfiction on occasion as well. With a vociferously loyal roster that ranges from such authors as Gabrielle Zevin and Emily St. John Mandel to Bohjalian, Peter Heller, Katherine Heiny, Jennifer Close, Esmeralda Santiago, Helen Ellis and the actress Selma Blair, she is also considered extraordinarily adept at helping market and promote her authors.
Zevin's star-crossed gamers saga, "Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow," topped Amazon's list of Best Books of 2022, ended up a Jimmy Fallon Book Club pick, and got a rare John Green recommendation. Almost the minute that Amazon's Times Square billboard went up trumpeting the novel as its "#1" choice, Jackson shared it on her busy Instagram.
"She's a complete star," said the literary agent Amanda Urban, who, 10 years ago -- on the advice of the late Sonny Mehta, Jackson's boss and mentor -- entrusted Cormac McCarthy and his long-gestating works in progress to a young Jackson. The two linked novels McCarthy delivered were heavy on esoteric mathematics, physics and intelligence theory.
"More than anyone around," Urban said of Jackson, "she instinctively knew how to talk about these books." "The Passenger," published in October of last year, and "Stella Maris," released in December, were greeted as a triumphant comeback for McCarthy.
Jackson said she was almost as surprised as the rest of the publishing world that she'd written a novel. Like countless others, she had felt isolated and unsettled as the pandemic "changed the world and the way we lived," she said. Far from her normal epicenter among a younger cohort spanning a swath of publishing houses and literary agencies, Jackson wrote the novel, she said, in place of being able to talk and gossip and socialize with what had seemed to have become a vanished world.
For the first six months of the pandemic, she and her husband, Torrey Liddell -- a partner at the production company Surreel Films -- and their two young children lived with his parents at their country house in Sharon, Conn., not far from Hotchkiss, where both Liddell and his father had gone to boarding school. "I love Torrey's family," Jackson said, "but they're not my family." The complications of marrying into someone else's family drive "Pineapple Street"'s fish-out-of-gene-pool plot.
The question around Viking and its Pamela Dorman imprint is whether the book, which comes out March 7 with an announced first printing of 50,000, could emerge as a "Sex and the City" that gets its sugar rush not at Magnolia Bakery but at Le French Tart on Henry Street where Jackson favors the almond croissants. Sold in a pre-emptive deal for a reported seven figures in April 2021, the novel is under option as a TV series by the production company PictureStart. Although Publishers Weekly called it "a clever if tepid debut," Kirkus Reviews judged the novel a "remarkably enjoyable visit with the annoying one percent, as close to crazy rich WASPs as WASPs can get."
Jackson wrote "Pineapple Street" in just four months after she read The New York Times article "The Rich Kids Who Want to Tear Down Capitalism," about millennial one-percenters' distinctly ambivalent relationship with the millions they stand to inherit. The conundrum visits the Stocktons in "Pineapple Street" when Georgiana grows a social conscience and decides to give away her trust fund.
The book's approaching launch has Park Avenue on high alert. The Colony Club and the Cosmo Club have asked about hosting events with Jackson. She said she remembers the first time she was invited to lunch at the Colony Club. Still an entry-level editorial assistant, she arrived wearing black jeans, "the nice J. Crew kind," Jackson said with a laugh. Lunch had to be moved. She never made a mistake like that again.
"For someone who's written a novel about class, I came to it surprisingly late," said Jackson, who was raised in Ipswich, Mass., and attended a small progressive private school where teachers were called by their first names. She used to pass John Updike's house there when she went for a run, she said. Now she is rereading his book "Couples" because she's setting her next novel there.
In contrast, at Williams, where she studied poetry, she said she discovered that "there was a whole group of kids who took private planes for spring break."
As a seasoned editor, Jackson has witnessed the eggshell egos and creative struggles of many of her authors, and has ridden the ups and downs of their insecurities and rough drafts. "Pineapple Street" had the potential of throwing the same emotional obstacle course her way.
J. Courtney Sullivan, whose first novel, "Commencement," began her string of best sellers with Jackson, talked through some of those vulnerabilities with her, she said, and "how, as a writer, you have to put so much of yourself out there, and the risks that holds, the vulnerability."
Jennifer Close, who has been with Jackson since they made "Girls in White Dresses" a best seller in 2011, exchanged texts with her almost daily. "The first time she got notes back for revisions," Close said, "she texted me, 'I hate revising. This is miserable. How do you not hate me?' It was funny, because she's a person her authors love."
"I feel like I've always been sensitive to my authors," Jackson said. "But it's gone up a level. I'm never going to just dismiss a rude email one of them gets ever again."
No one does fun like Jackson, her authors say, while keeping her editorial focus paper-cut sharp. She is a perpetual standout at the competitive game nights that Ellis holds as fund-raisers every year for One Story magazine. At the last gathering, Jackson dipped into the Truth or Dare bag for extra points and found herself drawing a Sharpie tattoo of a skull and cross bones on Bohjalian's arm.
Jackson likes to joke that she "has the most boring résumé in publishing" because she hasn't exactly moved around in her career. Zevin frames it differently, describing Jackson, and her trajectory, as a full-blown video game.
"A plucky adventurer," Zevin wrote in an email, "let's call her Jenny Jackson, because honestly, this is a very good video game character name! -- travels through worlds to collect a series of tomes that, in combination, will unlock the secrets of civilization and maybe even save it!
"Her quest will take her from a post-apocalyptic landscape in the Midwest, to the elite world of the ultrarich in Singapore, and to many worlds in between. To collect the tomes, she must be highly observant, empathetic, and a master of language and transformation.
"In the final level, she reaches a world that is unexpected, but strangely familiar: It's a world of her own devising."
Photograph Above and left, Brooklyn Heights, the setting of Jenny Jackson's "Pineapple Street." The author Chris Bohjalian called the book "the novel Jane Austen would have written if Jane Austen lived in Brooklyn Heights in the 21st century." Below, Jackson, a star books editor for years, surprised some with her foray into writing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES; CELESTE SLOMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C7.

Subject: Families & family life; Computer & video games; Novels; Books; Publishing; Pandemics

People: Austen, Jane (1775-1817)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/26/books/jenny-jackson-pineapple-street.html

Title: In a Plot Twist, an Editor Turns Debut Author:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 2, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2781062396

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/plot-twist-editor-turns-debut-author/docview/2781062396/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Successful Editor Turns Debut Author, Surprising Nearly Everyone

Author: McGee, Celia

Publication info: McGee, Celia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/successful-editor-turns-debut-author-surprising/docview/2780993988/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Jenny Jackson means onetime Brooklyn Heights resident Truman Capote no disrespect, and his quote “I live in Brooklyn. By choice” serves as an epigraph to “Pineapple Street,” her first novel. But Jackson sets off on a walking tour with a different Brooklyn Heights in her sights.
She gestures toward the red brick Heights Casino, where the novel’s old-money Brooklyn plays tennis year-round, and the St. George Hotel, which catered to Brooklyn’s rich of the Jazz Age. There’s the imposing bay-windowed house on Columbia Heights that inspired the heirloom-stuffed limestone at the heart of the book. And the Joe Coffee on the corner of Pineapple and Hicks streets is where Georgiana, the youngest daughter of the novel’s adamantly Social Register Stockton family, utters the immortal line, “Oh no, I left my Cartier tennis bracelet in Lena’s BMW and she’s leaving for her grandmother’s house in Southampton” as she is fatefully spotted by the reluctant heir to a zillion-dollar defense fortune.
Darley, Georgiana’s older sister, is a former finance crusher and increasingly reluctant stay-at-$10-million-home mom, while their mother, a ski-pole-thin event planner, has never met an issue of the Yale Alumni Magazine she didn’t scour for prospects for her unmarried daughter. Stuck, uncomfortably, in the middle, is Sasha, the middle-class New England girl who has married their brother, Cord, and, despite all signs to the contrary, is referred to as “the Gold Digger” by her sisters-in-law.
“It’s the novel Jane Austen would have written,” said author Chris Bohjalian, “if Jane Austen lived in Brooklyn Heights in the 21st century.”
But Jane Austen didn’t hold a high-profile position in publishing, as well: Jackson, the author with a splashy debut on her hands, is also a vice president and executive editor at Alfred A. Knopf. Bohjalian is one of her authors.
Jackson’s foray into writing came as a surprise to most who know her, not least those who have known her as editor, and raised questions: How will Jackson deploy her skills in her new circumstances? And what does it feel like to be on the other side of the author-publisher relationship?
“It was like finding out your spouse is an Olympic equestrian,” said author Kevin Kwan, who hit the publishing stratosphere with Jackson as his editor on “Crazy Rich Asians.” “Or better, given her natural skills, an Olympic gymnast.”
Since joining Vintage, Knopf’s paperback arm, in 2002, fresh out of Williams College and the Columbia Publishing Course, and segueing to Knopf’s hardcover shop nine years after that, Jackson, 43, has established herself as a literary hitmaker with a track record of fostering bestselling authors who straddle the line between literary and commercial fiction, and nonfiction on occasion as well. With a vociferously loyal roster that ranges from such authors as Gabrielle Zevin and Emily St. John Mandel to Bohjalian, Peter Heller, Katherine Heiny, Jennifer Close, Esmeralda Santiago, Helen Ellis and actress Selma Blair, she is also considered extraordinarily adept at helping market and promote her authors.
Zevin’s star-crossed gamers saga, “Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow,” topped Amazon’s list of Best Books of 2022, ended up a Jimmy Fallon Book Club pick, and got a rare John Green recommendation. Almost the minute that Amazon’s Times Square billboard went up trumpeting the novel as its “#1” choice, Jackson shared it on her busy Instagram.
“She’s a complete star,” said literary agent Amanda Urban, who, 10 years ago — on the advice of the late Sonny Mehta, Jackson’s boss and mentor — entrusted Cormac McCarthy and his long-gestating works in progress to a young Jackson. The two linked novels McCarthy delivered were heavy on esoteric mathematics, physics and intelligence theory.
“More than anyone around,” Urban said of Jackson, “she instinctively knew how to talk about these books.” “The Passenger,” published in October, and “Stella Maris,” released in December, were greeted as a triumphant comeback for McCarthy.
Jackson said she was almost as surprised as the rest of the publishing world that she’d written a novel. Like countless others, she had felt isolated and unsettled as the pandemic “changed the world and the way we lived,” she said. Far from her normal epicenter among a younger cohort spanning a swath of publishing houses and literary agencies, Jackson wrote the novel, she said, in place of being able to talk and gossip and socialize with what had seemed to have become a vanished world.
For the first six months of the pandemic, she and her husband, Torrey Liddell — a partner at the production company Surreel Films — and their two young children lived with his parents at their country house in Sharon, Connecticut, not far from The Hotchkiss School, where both Liddell and his father had gone to boarding school. “I love Torrey’s family,” Jackson said, “but they’re not my family.” The complications of marrying into someone else’s family drive her novel’s fish-out-of-gene-pool plot.
The question around Viking and its Pamela Dorman imprint is whether the book, which comes out March 7 with an announced first printing of 50,000, could emerge as a “Sex and the City” that gets its sugar rush not at Magnolia Bakery but at Le French Tart on Henry Street where Jackson favors the almond croissants. Sold in a preemptive deal for a reported seven figures in April 2021, the novel is under option as a TV series by the production company PictureStart. Although Publishers Weekly called it “a clever if tepid debut,” Kirkus Reviews judged the novel a “remarkably enjoyable visit with the annoying 1%, as close to crazy rich WASPs as WASPs can get.”
Jackson wrote “Pineapple Street” in just four months after she read The New York Times article “The Rich Kids Who Want to Tear Down Capitalism,” about millennial one-percenters’ distinctly ambivalent relationship with the millions they stand to inherit. The conundrum visits the Stocktons in “Pineapple Street” when Georgiana grows a social conscience and decides to give away her trust fund.
The book’s approaching launch has Park Avenue on high alert. The Colony Club and the Cosmo Club have asked about hosting events with Jackson. She said she remembers the first time she was invited to lunch at the Colony Club. Still an entry-level editorial assistant, she arrived wearing black jeans, “the nice J. Crew kind,” Jackson said with a laugh. Lunch had to be moved. She never made a mistake like that again.
“For someone who’s written a novel about class, I came to it surprisingly late,” said Jackson, who was raised in Ipswich, Massachusetts, and attended a small progressive private school where teachers were called by their first names. She used to pass John Updike’s house there when she went for a run, she said. Now she is rereading his book “Couples” because she’s setting her next novel there.
In contrast, at Williams, where she studied poetry, she said she discovered that “there was a whole group of kids who took private planes for spring break.”
As a seasoned editor, Jackson has witnessed the eggshell egos and creative struggles of many of her authors, and has ridden the ups and downs of their insecurities and rough drafts. “Pineapple Street” had the potential of throwing the same emotional obstacle course her way.
J. Courtney Sullivan, whose first novel, “Commencement,” began her string of bestsellers with Jackson, talked through some of those vulnerabilities with her, she said, and “how, as a writer, you have to put so much of yourself out there, and the risks that holds, the vulnerability.”
Jennifer Close, who has been with Jackson since they made “Girls in White Dresses” a bestseller in 2011, exchanged texts with her almost daily. “The first time she got notes back for revisions,” Close said, “she texted me, ‘I hate revising. This is miserable. How do you not hate me?’ It was funny, because she’s a person her authors love.”
“I feel like I’ve always been sensitive to my authors,” Jackson said. “But it’s gone up a level. I’m never going to just dismiss a rude email one of them gets ever again.”
No one does fun like Jackson, her authors say, while keeping her editorial focus paper-cut sharp. She is a perpetual standout at the competitive game nights that Ellis holds as fundraisers every year for One Story magazine. At the last gathering, Jackson dipped into the Truth or Dare bag for extra points and found herself drawing a Sharpie tattoo of a skull and cross bones on Bohjalian’s arm.
Jackson likes to joke that she “has the most boring résumé in publishing” because she hasn’t exactly moved around in her career. Zevin frames it differently, describing Jackson, and her trajectory, as a full-blown video game.
“A plucky adventurer,” Zevin wrote in an email, “let’s call her Jenny Jackson, because honestly, this is a very good video game character name! — travels through worlds to collect a series of tomes that, in combination, will unlock the secrets of civilization and maybe even save it!
“Her quest will take her from a post-apocalyptic landscape in the Midwest, to the elite world of the ultrarich in Singapore, and to many worlds in between. To collect the tomes, she must be highly observant, empathetic, and a master of language and transformation.
“In the final level, she reaches a world that is unexpected, but strangely familiar: It’s a world of her own devising.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Novels; Books; Publishing; Writers; Editors

Location: United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Entertainment; Arts; Yale University; Mandel, Emily St John; Sullivan, J Courtney; Updike, John; Mccarthy, Cormac; Knopf, Alfred A; Blair, Selma; Hotchkiss Preparatory School; Social Register; St George Hotel; Kirkus; Williams College; Instagram Inc; Publishers Weekly; Columbia Publishing Course; J Crew Group; New York Times; Magnolia Bakery; New England States (Us); Massachusetts; Singapore; France; Park Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Connecticut; Times Square And 42nd Street (Manhattan, Ny); England; Mehta, Sonny; Le French Tart (Brooklyn, Ny, Bakery); Sharp Corporation; Stella Maris Bait And Tackle (Brooklyn, Ny); Viking Press; Cartier Sa; Utah Jazz; Billboard (Magazine); One Story; Southampton (England); Fortune (Magazine); Capote, Truman; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Green, John (1977 ); Brooklyn (Nyc); Fallon, Jimmy; Ellis, Helen M (1970 ); AmazonCom Inc; Austen, Jane; Out Publishing Inc; Knopf, Alfred A, Inc; Zevin, Gabrielle; Close, Jennifer (Author); Heiny, Katherine; Bohjalian, Chris; Cosmopolitan (Magazine); Brooklyn Heights (Brooklyn, Ny); Santiago, Esmeralda; Stella Maris (Book); The Passenger: A Novel (Book); The Passenger (2022) (Book); Heller, Peter; Jackson, Jenny (1979 ); Kwan, Kevin; Colleges And Universities; Travel And Vacations; Theater; Millennial Generation; Cooking And Cookbooks; Delivery Services; Poetry And Poets; Records And Achievements; Seafood; Education (K 12); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Comedy And Humor; Private And Sectarian Schools; Youth; Children And Childhood; Wages And Salaries; Actors And Actresses; Names, Organizational; Privacy; Shutdowns (Institutional); Olympic Games (2020); Walking; Book Trade And Publishing; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); High Net Worth Individuals; Computer And Video Games; International Relations; Writing And Writers; Television; Magazines; Women And Girls

Title: A Successful Editor Turns Debut Author, Surprising Nearly Everyone

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 1, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-01 @ 17:25

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2780993988

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/successful-editor-turns-debut-author-surprising/docview/2780993988/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How to Score a Vintage Handbag: [Style Desk]

Author: Meltzer, Marisa

Publication info: Meltzer, Marisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-score-vintage-handbag/docview/2776904109/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What's a good deal? Where should you look?
The ubiquity of certain "it" handbags on social media can create a feeling of snow blindness when you're scrolling online. If you want to break out of that trend cycle, the solution is obvious: Get a vintage bag.
This is a wild and exciting world to dive into! It's also overwhelming. Allow me to talk you through it. You'll want to take your time, familiarize yourself with sellers' authentication guarantees, do research on serial numbers, get a lay of the land on competitive pricing and learn to understand the subtleties of how sellers describe the conditions of their goods. Sounds exhausting but trust me, it's worth it.
You should know things like what Prada calls its nylon (tessuto) and the name of Bottega Veneta's woven leather (intrecciato). Never hesitate to ask questions or request more photos -- advice that also applies to life in general.
For our purposes, we're using a loose definition of vintage: at least a decade old. There are many, many, many strategies for shopping for vintage bags. One way is to frequent vintage shops that carry a lot of bags. Check out What Goes Around Comes Around in New York and Beverly Hills, Calif., or Dina C's Fab & Funky Consignment Boutique in Palm Beach, Fla. (a.k.a., destination shopping heaven). Browse by designer at a resale site like ReBag or Fashionphile. Visit super-specific destinations like ClosetfullofCoco on Instagram, which sells Chanel exclusively -- and almost all of it bags.
If you need something to do after eating lunch and before returning to work, browsing Christie's Collection of André Leon Talley is a solid use of your time. Mr. Talley was not just a fashion historian and writer but a real shopper. While few can attend the live auction on Feb. 15, and fewer can place a winning bid on a beige ponyhair Chanel bag or a black Ralph Lauren alligator duffel, looking at the collection can inspire your own vintage bag rabbit hole.
Satin is one of my favorite materials for bags, especially small evening bags with drawstrings or fringe. Renaud Pellegrino's bright pink satin bag would be ideal for a night at the ballet, maybe. Also, look for materials that were often used in past decades, like tortoiseshell, resin or Bakelite.
Or you might try looking for earlier pieces from your favorite labels. Search for Kate Spade from the early aughts when some of the bags were made in Italy. You can find wonderful Tom Ford-era Gucci or Yves Saint Laurent bags. Ditto Louis Vuitton bags in Epi leather, a Vuitton-specific creation that's textured with tiny wavy ridges.
Another way to search is by looking for bag shapes that were all the rage before your time. I like to search for frame bags or top handle bags; the Céline clasp bag from just a few years ago is a favorite. For a treat, try minaudières, a whole world unto itself. Maybe a Judith Leiber egg?
Important note! You won't look costume-y if you wear any of these with normal clothes. But looking like you're in costume isn't always a bad thing.
Roberta di Camerino
A friend of mine who designs accessories loves to search for Sharif bags from the 1980s and Susan Gail bags for their high quality leather. Another classic is Roberta di Camerino, an Italian brand whose heyday was in the midcentury and whose bags are known for trompe l'oeil and color-blocking. Once you see the bags, you can't unsee their influence in other designers' work -- Prada, Gucci. There are a lot of bags around at an array of prices. I prefer the velvet to the vinyl and would wear it with thin wale corduroy pants. 640 euros; about $ 700
Mark Cross
For a certain kind of fashion fixated person, the biggest revelation in "Rear Window" was the box bag Grace Kelly's character carried. There are vintage versions of the bag on 1stdibs.com, but Mark Cross continues to make a smaller version of the bag that Gerald Murphy, who ran Mark Cross, designed in 1954 for the film, called the Rear Window Day Case. (Mr. Murphy and his wife, Sara, were significant Lost Generation figures, legendary for their time in the South of France.) I find the interior mirror completely charming. Black is practical, but who needs practical? Go with the celadon. $ 3,590
Hermès
The Birkin and the Kelly bags are more or less household names, but Hermès has a deep bench of lesser known styles: Picotin, Chevreuse, Chaîne D'Ancre, Cordelière, Sandrine. "I think many overlook all of the wonderful styles Hermès had in the '60s," said Zabrina Estrada, who owns Etéreo Vintage in Brooklyn. "I love the Palonnier in a skin, and the Piano bag is also really chic." Her dream bag is the Mallette, which has a lockable compartment for jewelry. The Brooklyn Museum has one owned by Babe Paley that was donated by her social secretary! $ 13,000
Manolo Blahnik
I consider companies whose bags are less celebrated than other things they make a whole category of vintage. Bally fits in there, as does any bag from Cartier, Van Cleef & Arpels, Nina Ricci, Fortuny and Ferragamo. Kudos to whoever gets this gold and pink metallic polka-dot Manolo clutch worthy of Cher Horowitz, Carrie Bradshaw or other '90s protagonists. $ 487.50
Chanel
Vintage Chanel bags go in a lot of directions. You could get a wild piece from one of its collections, like an $ 84,000 shopping basket from 2014 made out of the house's signature chains. Take it to the farmers' market? But as with Hermès, the elegant move would be a piece from the 1960s, like a chocolate brown Ottoman bag with a lipstick red lining. Why does red lining make everything better? 1,800 euros; about $ 1,960
Louis Vuitton
Skip all the Louis Vuitton logos, unless you're buying a trunk. Instead, go for simple. Sumptuous. Mysterious but privileged. I'm talking about Sofia Coppola! But specifically, the Louis Vuitton Sofia Coppola SC Bag Leather PM. The navy blue is classic. In fact, everything about this bag is classic. I'd be happy with any color -- light brown, cherry red, oxblood -- and it's large enough to carry a laptop, wallet, tiny notepad for deep thoughts, a bag of Doritos. You know, the essentials. $ 2,005
Photograph This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Shopping; Handbags & purses

People: Coppola, Sofia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/14/style/shopping-vintage-bags.html

Title: How to Score a Vintage Handbag:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 16, 2023

column: Shop Monster

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2776904109

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-score-vintage-handbag/docview/2776904109/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Where Rap Gods Get Their Bling: [Style Desk]

Author: Barnard, Christopher

Publication info: Barnard, Christopher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-rap-gods-get-their-bling/docview/2772541883/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The jewelry designer Alex Moss specializes in creating custom pieces for clients like Drake and Jack Harlow. This month, he releases a collection available to the masses.
Nine floors above the storefronts of New York's diamond district, in a corner suite of the World Diamond Tower, a lariat necklace with diamonds the size of molars sat inside a silver briefcase. The necklace was fresh from a cleaning -- an ultrasonic water bath, followed by a steam -- and visiting the office of the jewelry designer Alex Moss in late January en route to its owner: the rapper and singer Drake.
"Jewelry is like a car, it needs to be maintained," Mr. Moss, 30, said.
The piece, created by Mr. Moss, took 14 months to make. A video shared on Instagram by the designer said that its 42 diamonds represented the number of times that Drake had considered proposing marriage. When asked how much the necklace cost, Mr. Moss declined to answer, citing the security of its owner.
Personal orders like Drake's necklace have been Mr. Moss's bread and butter since he started his namesake line in 2020. Last year, he created about 170 custom pieces, he said, and is currently juggling about 40. Much of that jewelry has been made for young hip-hop artists: His other clients have included include Tyler, the Creator, ASAP Rocky and Chief Keef. Some of the pieces have had price tags with six figures, including a belt set with rubies and white, black and green diamonds for ASAP Rocky, and a diamond-and-sapphire-encrusted bellhop chain for Tyler, the Creator.
"The artists I look up to went to the Ben Ballers, to the Jacobs, to the Lorraines," said Tyler, the Creator, referring to the jewelry designers Ben Yang, Jacob Arabo (a.k.a. Jacob the Jeweler) and Lorraine Schwartz, all of whom have been recognized for blinging out hip-hop stars. "Now we have Alex Moss."
'I Can Do This'
This month, Mr. Moss is expanding his business with the introduction of a new collection of ready-made jewelry sold on his website. Starting at about $ 1,000, the pieces are by no means cheap, but they cost less than his custom designs. "There is a huge range," he said.
The collection, called "Cathedral of Dreams," borrows heavily from Christian and gothic imagery. There are pieces shaped like crosses, crucifixes, angels and the face of Jesus wearing a diamond-studded crown of thorns. "I've always loved the aesthetic," said Mr. Moss, who was raised in the Armenian Orthodox Church.
"I'm faithful," added Mr. Moss, who was puffing on a strawberry kiwi vape and wearing three of his line's chain necklaces, as well as a tongue-shaped "Lick of Death" ring from his new collection. "But I am not the most religious person."
Mr. Moss, who is from a suburb of Toronto, said he was obsessed with "Star Wars" and downloading hip-hop music from the Napster successor Kazaa when he was growing up. As a tween, he nurtured his creativity through Adobe Photoshop, which he learned to master himself. Using money he had saved, some made from reselling sneakers on eBay, he started a streetwear line called Bandit in his senior year of high school, before dropping out. A self-described "troublemaker," Mr. Moss then had jobs as a waiter, a paralegal assistant and at a Bed Bath & Beyond store while working on his streetwear line.
In 2016, after earning his high school equivalency diploma in Canada, he moved to New York at 25 to study fashion at Parsons School of Design.
"It wasn't a typical path," said Mr. Moss, who is 6 foot 5 inches and has wavy shoulder-length black hair and a black goatee. "Me being 25 and all of these kids are 18."
While at Parsons, he got an internship at the jeweler Avianne & Co. in Midtown. (Its office is a few doors down from Mr. Moss's suite in the World Diamond Tower.) He developed an interest in jewelry through his love of hip-hop, he said, and as an intern, he would help design custom pieces.
"I was like OK, I'm actually sick. I can do this," Mr. Moss said. Eventually, he dropped out of Parsons to work on custom design projects at Avianne & Co.
He had already worked on some personal orders for hip-hop artists by the time the rapper Playboi Carti introduced him to ASAP Rocky while the men were in Paris for Virgil Abloh's debut men's wear show for Louis Vuitton in 2018. "I thought he was a rapper the first time we met," ASAP Rocky said. Of Mr. Moss's jewelry, he added: "It's less about the flex than the artistic value."
When Mr. Moss started his namesake line in 2020, he was working from his apartment in the Long Island City section of Queens. At the time, he had saved enough money to cover rent and living expenses for a couple of months, he said. Two weeks later, New York implemented its pandemic lockdown.
"Who was going to buy jewelry?" Mr. Moss recalled thinking at the time. "No one even knew where we were getting food from."
Early six-figure custom orders, including from the rapper Jack Harlow and the music producer Rvssian, kept his business afloat, he said, and enabled him to set up shop at his diamond district location.
A Desire to Be Attainable
From Mr. Moss's office overlooking 47th Street, the glimmering red lights of Times Square look a bit like shimmering Burmese rubies. Inside, there are rocks both real (diamonds in jewelry display cases, green marble on walls) and fake (in one nook, walls were treated to look like a cavern, or "diamond cave," as Mr. Moss called it).
In another corner are a Pac-Man arcade game and a vending machine that Mr. Moss hopes to one day fill with branded trinkets. "Key chains, ashtrays, things you can only get here," he said.
His office and showroom are a few floors above the factory where his line's pieces are made, a space that Mr. Moss had previously used as his first office in the World Diamond Tower. ("He's moving on up, like George Jefferson," as ASAP Rocky put it.) The factory is made up of two lab-like rooms where a head jeweler oversees a team of three diamond setters as they place stones and laser precious metals.
Mr. Moss, who employs 15 people, is quick to point out that the artisans in the factory are the "jewelers" who construct his pieces, and that he is the "jewelry designer" who conceives them. "I'm like Ralph Lifshitz," Mr. Moss said, referring to the founder of Ralph Lauren, who built an empire not on sewing expertise, but on creative vision.
In discussing the future of his company, Mr. Moss mentioned aspirations for it to follow the trajectory of Chrome Hearts, which over the years has evolved from a niche line to a lifestyle brand, in part because famous musical artists (Cher) and models (Bella Hadid) have helped popularize its silver jewelry, hoodies and T-shirts.
"Chrome Hearts is attainable," Mr. Moss said. "That is the direction we are going in."
He is working on renderings for a watch he hopes to start producing in partnership with a watchmaker in the coming years. Though Mr. Moss has customized vintage Cartier and Rolex watches -- a process he calls "Frankensteining" -- he has yet to design his own timepieces.
He also wants to open a flagship store and showroom in SoHo. Though his business has flourished in the diamond district, there are associations with the neighborhood that could become limitations to additional growth, Mr. Moss said.
"A lot of jewelers in our space, they are like Chris the Jeweler, Jacob the Jeweler," he said. "I'm not Alex the Jeweler. We are Alex Moss New York."
Photograph The jewelry designer Alex Moss at his office in the diamond district. (ST1); Top right, three pieces from Alex Moss's "Cathedral of Dreams" collection. Above from left: Mr. Moss in New York; a pendant in the image of Jesus; and three other pieces by Mr. Moss. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUISA OPALESKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST4) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST4.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Rap music; Artists; Diamonds; Hip hop music

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores

Location: New York; United States--US

People: ASAP Rocky (Rakim Mayers)

Company / organization: Name: Chrome Hearts; NAICS: 458310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/03/style/alex-moss-jewelry-drake.html

Title: Where Rap Gods Get Their Bling:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 5, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Documenttype: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772541883

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-rap-gods-get-their-bling/docview/2772541883/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Remembering Gandhi, Revered Worldwide: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Travelli, Alex; Leskovsek, Matej

Publication info: Travelli, Alex; Leskovsek, Matej. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/remembering-gandhi-revered-worldwide/docview/2771510324/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Seventy-five years ago, Mohandas K. Gandhi was shot dead by an assassin while on his way to deliver a regular evening prayer. Gandhi, by then largely known as the mahatma, or "great soul," had helped lead India into its independent future less than a year before, with millions of Indian nationalists by his side. He died as one of the most celebrated men on earth.
"The light has gone out of our lives," Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of independent India, told the weeping masses by radio on Jan. 30, 1948, the day of the assassination.
In his famous, impromptu elegy, Nehru promised that the light brought by Gandhi would "illumine this country for many more years. And a thousand years later, that light will be seen in this country and the world will see it and it will give solace to innumerable hearts."
Gandhi is still revered far and wide, his name a byword for a certain kind of virtue and action. Nearly every town in India's countryside has a main street named "M.G. Road" in his honor, and some of the biggest government programs of the 21st century bear his name, too. But India has changed in innumerable ways since 1948, when his life was snuffed out by Nathuram Godse, a Hindu ideologue with a Beretta pistol.
Mr. Godse had murdered Gandhi as a political enemy, accusing him of being a traitor to Hindus. Mr. Godse was a Hindu nationalist, who loathed what he saw as Gandhi's deference to minorities and resented the division of colonial India between an explicitly Muslim Pakistan and a multireligious, secular (though Hindu-majority) republic of India. Narendra Modi, the popular and increasingly powerful prime minister of the past eight years, has roots in the same Hindu nationalist movement. Members of his party have been caught celebrating Mr. Godse -- and rebuked for it -- but have then been allowed to stay in Parliament.
Mr. Modi praises Gandhi at ritually appropriate occasions, but there is relatively less veneration for Gandhi in India's public spaces now.
Today's India is much prouder of its industrial and military achievements than Gandhi might have liked, and it is eager for more. Mr. Modi's messaging suits that mood better. Still, Gandhi's commitments to an independent and self-sufficient India, his wit and steely resolve and his ability to mix aspects of spiritual leadership with political continue to command respect.
As India evolves and finds its stature ever greater on the world stage, The New York Times pored over archival photographs to look back at those years of light that Gandhi brought to his countrymen and to the world. Here is a selection.
In the first of these images, Gandhi, right, is pictured with his brother Laxmidas Gandhi in 1886 in India. In the second photograph, he is in the center, in South Africa, where he was practicing law.
Gandhi addressing a farewell gathering in South Africa in 1914 before going to Britain and later to India in 1915. It was around this time that the honorific "mahatma" or "great soul" was first applied to him.
Gandhi in 1924 with Indira, the daughter of Nehru, who was prime minister after India gained independence in 1947. She would later also serve as the country's prime minister, known by her married name, Indira Gandhi. (She was not related to Mohandas K. Gandhi and was herself assassinated, in 1984.)
Gandhi in 1930 at the start of the protest that became known as the Salt March. Over several weeks, he and his followers walked some 240 miles from his religious retreat on the Sabarmati River in Gujarat to the coast at the town of Dandi, urging Indians to defy colonial laws taxing salt and restricting its production. The march ignited a major campaign of civil disobedience, and focused international attention on Gandhi and his advocacy of satyagraha, or nonviolent resistance.
Crowds gathering to hear Gandhi speak next to the Sabarmati River in the early 1930s.
Workers during a labor strike in the 1930s as the movement to end Britain's colonial rule grew stronger. Tens of thousands were jailed over the Salt March or related protests, including Gandhi himself.
Gandhi breaking a fast after being released from prison. He fasted many times, including to protest colonial rule and Britain's treatment of Indians who stood against it.
Gandhi meeting with Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek of China in India. Battling an invading Japan in the 1930s and '40s, Chiang sought to enlist Gandhi's support for his war effort.
Gandhi arriving in Marseille, France, in September 1931. During his trip to Europe, he also traveled to London to discuss colonial India's future.
While in Britain, Gandhi attended the Round Table conference in London and met with King George V and Queen Mary at Buckingham Palace.
Crowds gathered on London streets as Gandhi visited the East End, where he called attention to the area's poor by forsaking a hotel and staying at a community house.
While in East London, Gandhi met with Charlie Chaplin, to his right. Chaplin wrote that it was the meeting with Gandhi that inspired him to make "Modern Times," which depicted the dehumanizing effects of mass production.
Gandhi alongside other national movement leaders in 1931 dictating his terms of peace with Britain in the civil disobedience campaign begun by the Salt March. The deal called for the release of political prisoners.
Gandhi, center, and Nehru, left, in Bombay, now known as Mumbai, in December 1931. Nehru's political skills complemented the spiritual appeal of Gandhi to bring India's struggle for freedom to a successful conclusion.
Gandhi leaving a jail housing political prisoners in Calcutta, now known as Kolkata, in 1938 as part of negotiations to secure their release.
Gandhi during a fast in 1939 that ended when the viceroy of India agreed to the release of political prisoners.
Gandhi leaving the home of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, left, the leader of the Muslim League, in New Delhi in November 1939. Jinnah went on to become Pakistan's founding father.
Gandhi, fourth from the right, on his daily walk in 1946, with his aides and family members. Gandhi would typically walk several miles a day.
Gandhi in 1946, next to a spinning wheel. The charkha became a symbol of Indian resistance to Britain's textile-based mercantilism and British rule generally.
Gandhi meeting with Lord Mountbatten, the new viceroy of India, and his wife, Lady Edwina Mountbatten, in 1947. It was the homestretch for colonial rule: India would be independent, and the viceroys no more, within the year.
Growing unrest between Hindus and Muslims exploded into riots before India's independence in 1947, along with its partition into India and Pakistan, leading Jinnah and Gandhi to jointly appeal for peace.
Gandhi, center, visiting a camp for Muslim refugees at the Purana Qila in New Delhi. The refugees were preparing to leave India for Pakistan in September 1947, a month after both countries gained independence from Britain.
Gandhi at Birla House in New Delhi on Jan. 29, 1948, the day before his assassination. He had made the site, formerly the residence of one of India's biggest industrialists, into his base in the capital.
After the assassination, Gandhi's grandniece placed petals on his head as his body was lying in state at Birla House.
Gandhi was cremated on the banks of the Yamuna River.
Crowds lined the railway tracks to pay homage as some of Gandhi's ashes were carried by train to the Ganges River to be scattered.
The spot where Gandhi fell.
Photograph Mohandas K. Gandhi, affectionately called "Bapu," or father, was killed on Jan. 30, 1948. He was one of the most celebrated men on earth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS); Gandhi in 1930 at the start of the Salt March. He and his followers walked 240 miles, urging Indians to defy colonial laws taxing salt and restricting its production. (PHOTOGRAPH BY POPPERFOTO, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Crowds gathered to hear Gandhi speak next to the Sabarmati River in the early 1930s. Nearly every town in India's countryside has a street named "M.G. Road." (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES A. MILLS COLLECTION/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Gandhi, right, with his brother Laxmidas Gandhi in 1886 in India. Gandhi was known as the mahatma. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNDERWOOD ARCHIVES/SHUTTERSTOCK); Gandhi, center, with some of his colleagues when he was a practicing lawyer in South Africa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON-DEUTSCH COLLECTION/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Workers blocked the gate of their shop during a strike in the 1930s as the movement to end colonial rule grew stronger. Tens of thousands were jailed, including Gandhi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Growing unrest between Hindus and Muslims exploded into riots in Bengal before India's independence in 1947, along with its partition into India and Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORONTO STAR ARCHIVES/TORONTO STAR, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Gandhi, center, visited a camp for Muslim refugees at the Purana Qila in New Delhi. The refugees were preparing to leave India for Pakistan in September 1947, a month after both countries gained their independence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ACME, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); he spot where Gandhi fell. Nehru promised that the light brought by Gandhi would "illumine this country for many more years." Gandhi is still revered far and wide, his name a byword for a certain kind of virtue and action. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS); Gandhi was cremated on the banks of the Yamuna River. "The light has gone out of our lives," Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of independent India, told the weeping masses by radio on the day of the assassination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS); Gandhi's grandniece placed petals on his head as his body was lying in state at Birla House in New Delhi. Crowds lined the tracks to pay homage as Gandhi's ashes were carried by train to the Ganges River to be scattered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IMAGNO, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Civil disobedience; Photographs; Muslims; Hindus; Mercantilism; Archives & records; Political prisoners; Riots; Assassinations & assassination attempts; Prime ministers

Business indexing term: Subject: Mercantilism

Location: South Africa; India; United Kingdom--UK; Pakistan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/30/world/asia/gandhi-assassination-75-years-photos.html

Title: Remembering Gandhi, Revered Worldwide:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 2, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771510324

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/remembering-gandhi-revered-worldwide/docview/2771510324/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02 -02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Marilyn Stafford, 97, Who Skillfully Captured Candid Moments, Is Dead: [Biography]

Author: Williams, Alex

Publication info: Williams, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/marilyn-stafford-97-who-skillfully-captured/docview/2769504157/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: She brought a narrative eye and a social consciousness to her work, whether covering refugee crises, celebrities or fashion. But much of it might have been lost.
Marilyn Stafford's journey from aspiring Broadway singer and actress to noted photojournalist and fashion photographer started with a drive to New Jersey and a spasm of fear.
One morning in 1948, Ms. Stafford, who was 23, was tagging along with two friends who were driving to the home of Albert Einstein in Princeton, N.J., to make a short documentary about him and his views, as one of history's greatest physicists, on the dawning of atomic weapons. On the car ride down, one of the friends handed Ms. Stafford a 35-millimeter camera and asked her to take some stills between takes. "I'd never used one before, and I went into a panic," she recalled in a 2021 interview.
There was little to worry about, it turned out. Einstein, wearing baggy pants and a sweatshirt, seemed gentle and modest as he greeted the three at his door. As her friends set up their movie cameras, Ms. Stafford began snapping away as Einstein slumped into a floral-print chair near a fireplace and stared distractedly into the distance.
Her friends eventually sent her a couple of prints from her rolls of film. One stood out. Gauzy and slightly out of focus, the shot of the seated Einstein was not technically perfect, but it captured him in an unguarded moment, looking ruminative, perhaps mournful.
Ms. Stafford would eventually trade her Broadway dreams for a Rolleiflex twin-lens reflex camera on her way to becoming a pioneering, if underrecognized, photojournalist and fashion photographer. But the Einstein photo was a harbinger of what would become her specialty: piercing the celebrity armor of Hollywood stars, fashionistas and even world leaders and finding a narrative behind the image.
Ms. Stafford died on Jan. 2 at her home in Shoreham-by-Sea, on the south coast of England, her publicist, Nicola Jeffs, said. She was 97.
"I like to tell stories," Ms. Stafford said in an interview with The New York Times last year, "and for me, taking a photograph is like telling a story. I tell it subconsciously, as I take the picture."
She never achieved anything close to the fame of 20th-century masters like Irving Penn, Richard Avedon and Henri Cartier-Bresson. For decades her archive largely consisted of shoe boxes full of photos stuffed under her bed, and much of her work might have been lost to history if it were not for a chance meeting with a photography curator named Nina Emett at a gallery show in Sussex, England, when Ms. Stafford was in her 90s.
Ms. Emett spent the next several years bringing Ms. Stafford's work back into the public eye, culminating last year in "Marilyn Stafford: A Life In Photography," a much-publicized retrospective that Ms. Emett curated with Ms. Stafford's daughter, Lina Clerke, in Brighton, England, and an accompanying monograph.
"Working in this male-dominated field against the gender expectations of her time, Marilyn elevated social concerns that were ignored or underrepresented by mainstream media," Helen Trompeteler, a British photography writer and curator and a friend of Ms. Stafford's, wrote in an email. "Her exceptional archive provides a unique insight into 20th-century history and reflects her lifelong advocacy for women's rights and representation."
As a freelance photographer based in Paris in the 1950s, and later, London, Ms. Stafford chronicled the poor in Paris as well as the struggles of rape victims in India and of refugees from the Algerian war of independence from France in the 1950s.
Even when photographing the famous, she typically opted to shoot them in candid, revealing moments at home. Over the years she produced richly expressive portraits of film luminaries (Lee Marvin, Sharon Tate, Richard Attenborough and Alan Bates); era-defining models (Twiggy, Joanna Lumley); musicians (Donovan, Édith Piaf, with whom she briefly lived in Paris) and public intellectuals (the architect Le Corbusier, the writer Italo Calvino).
In 1972, Ms. Stafford spent a month shadowing Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India, capturing her in quiet moments at home with her grandchildren and dog, as well in public moments, like visiting soldiers wounded in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971.
Her fashion photography, which she started in the mid-1960s, came at a fortuitous time, with the rise of ready-to-wear, which brought the work of couture designers to the masses. But even when shooting for haute fashion magazines like Vogue, she brought a street-photographer's taste for the authentic, posing models in Chanel and Givenchy, for example, in front of graffiti-strewn walls of Paris. She was delighted, she told The Times, to be called "a reverse snob" by the fashion editor of Le Figaro.
"I was never interested in studio work," Ms. Stafford said in a 2018 interview with Photomonitor, a photography site, "because my real feeling was out in the world on a documentary and storytelling basis, rather than just photographing the clothes."
Marilyn Jean Gerson was born on Nov. 5, 1925, in Cleveland, the eldest of two daughters of Maurice Gerson, a pharmacist, and Dorothy (Soglovitz) Gerson, who sold antiques.
As a youth, she studied at the Cleveland Play House. But she became aware of human suffering during the Great Depression through documentary photography, such as Dorothea Lange's photographs of migrant families escaping the Dust Bowl.
"From an early age, I was aware that horrible things could happen," she said in a 2021 interview with Digital Camera World, a photography magazine. "But also, that something could be done about them if there was the will, and eventually it seemed to me that photography might be an answer, although that realization only came a lot later."
Ms. Stafford studied English and drama for a time at the University of Wisconsin before moving to New York in 1946 to pursue a stage career. She made ends meet as an assistant to the fashion photographer Francesco Scavullo. In 1949, she followed a friend in a move to Paris, which would become her home for more than a decade.
Landing a coveted singing gig at a dinner club off the Champs-Élysées called Chez Carrère, Ms. Stafford befriended entertainers like Noël Coward, Maurice Chevalier and Piaf as well as giants of photojournalism like Cartier-Bresson and the combat photographer Robert Capa, who were among the founders of Magnum Photos.
Ms. Stafford told Mr. Capa that she was losing her singing voice and looking for a new career direction. He suggested that she work as an assistant to another Magnum founder and combat photographer, David Seymour, who was known professionally as Chim. Ms. Stafford had no desire to dodge bullets in war zones, Ms. Jeffs said in an email. Instead, she took a job in fashion public relations. (Mr. Capa was killed in 1954 when he stepped on a land mine while covering the First Indochina War; Mr. Seymour was killed by Egyptian sniper two years later while covering the Suez crisis.)
Ms. Stafford would, however, soon travel to trouble spots around the world with her husband, Robin Stafford, a foreign correspondent for the British newspaper The Daily Express, whom she married in 1958 after a brief marriage to Joseph Kohn, a filmmaker.
She was six months pregnant with their daughter, Lina, when she followed Mr. Stafford on an assignment to cover the war in Algeria. Ms. Stafford considered the trip a work assignment of sorts for her as well. She took harrowing shots of Algerian refugees in Tunisia. "Nobody seemed concerned about the refugee crisis that was unfolding," she said in the Times interview last year.
Upon returning to Paris, she sent her photos to Mr. Cartier-Bresson, who selected the best and sent them to The Observer, another British newspaper. It published two of her photos on the front page, one of a refugee mother, caked in dirt, nursing her child. The pictures helped raise awareness of the crisis.
The Staffords subsequently settled for periods in Rome, Beirut and New York. After the couple divorced in 1965, Ms. Stafford moved to London and co-founded an agency specializing in fashion, partly as a means to fund her photojournalistic work. Fashion "has its fun side," she told Photomonitor, "so that balances my serious side, if you will."
She is survived by her daughter and a grandson. Her third husband, João Manuel Viera, whom she married in 2001, died in 2016.
In 2017, she founded The Marilyn Stafford FotoReportage Award, in collaboration with FotoDocument, a nonprofit organization that supports environmental and social photography around the world.
Ms. Stafford retired in the 1980s to learn Mandarin, write poetry and support human rights initiatives. Or maybe her razor-sharp photographic vision had lost a bit of clarity. "Many years ago," she said, "a photographer in New York told me, 'Photographers don't grow old, they just grow out of focus."'
Photograph Ms. Stafford spent a month in 1972 shadowing Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India, including as she boarded a plane in New Delhi.; Marilyn Stafford in 1960. "I like to tell stories," she said, "and for me, taking a photograph is like telling a story."; Girl with milk bottle, Cité Lesage-Bullourde, Paris, 1950.; Ms. Stafford's 1948 photo of Albert Einstein was the start of her career behind the lens.; Édith Piaf, Paris, 1950. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYN STAFFORD) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Photojournalism; Photographers; Deaths

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/24/arts/marilyn-stafford-dead.html

Title: Marilyn Stafford, 97, Who Skillfully Captured Candid Moments, Is Dead:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 26, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2769504157

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/marilyn-stafford-97-who-skillfully-captured/docview/2769504157/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Marilyn Stafford, a Photojournalist Rediscovered, Dies at 97

Author: Williams, Alex

Publication info: Williams, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/marilyn-stafford-photojournalist-rediscovered/docview/2768822396/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Marilyn Stafford’s journey from aspiring Broadway singer and actress to noted photojournalist and fashion photographer started with a drive to New Jersey and a spasm of fear.
One morning in 1948, Stafford, who was 23, was tagging along with two friends who were driving to the home of Albert Einstein in Princeton, New Jersey, to make a short documentary about him and his views, as one of history’s greatest physicists, on the dawning of atomic weapons. On the car ride down, one of the friends handed Stafford a 35 mm camera and asked her to take some stills between takes. “I’d never used one before, and I went into a panic,” she recalled in a 2021 interview.
There was little to worry about, it turned out. Einstein, wearing baggy pants and a sweatshirt, seemed gentle and modest as he greeted the three at his door. As her friends set up their movie cameras, Stafford began snapping away as Einstein slumped into a floral-print chair near a fireplace and stared distractedly into the distance.
Her friends eventually sent her a couple of prints from her rolls of film. One stood out. Gauzy and slightly out of focus, the shot of the seated Einstein was not technically perfect, but it captured him in an unguarded moment, looking ruminative, perhaps mournful.
Stafford would eventually trade her Broadway dreams for a Rolleiflex twin-lens reflex camera on her way to becoming a pioneering, if underrecognized, photojournalist and fashion photographer. But the Einstein photo was a harbinger of what would become her specialty: piercing the celebrity armor of Hollywood stars, fashionistas and even world leaders and finding a narrative behind the image.
Stafford died Jan. 2 at her home in Shoreham-by-Sea, on the south coast of England, said her publicist, Nicola Jeffs. She was 97.
“I like to tell stories,” Stafford said in an interview with The New York Times last year, “and for me, taking a photograph is like telling a story. I tell it subconsciously, as I take the picture.”
She never achieved anything close to the fame of 20th-century masters like Irving Penn, Richard Avedon and Henri Cartier-Bresson. For decades, her archive largely consisted of shoeboxes full of photos stuffed under her bed, and much of her work might have been lost to history if it were not for a chance meeting with a photography curator named Nina Emett at a gallery show in Sussex, England, when Stafford was in her 90s.
Emett spent the next several years bringing Stafford’s work back into the public eye, culminating last year in “Marilyn Stafford: A Life In Photography,” a much-publicized retrospective that Emett curated with Stafford’s daughter, Lina Clerke, in Brighton, England, and an accompanying monograph.
“Working in this male-dominated field against the gender expectations of her time, Marilyn elevated social concerns that were ignored or underrepresented by mainstream media,” Helen Trompeteler, a British photography writer and curator and a friend of Stafford’s, wrote in an email. “Her exceptional archive provides a unique insight into 20th-century history and reflects her lifelong advocacy for women’s rights and representation.”
As a freelance photographer based in Paris in the 1950s and, later, London, Stafford chronicled the poor in Paris as well as the struggles of rape victims in India and of refugees from the Algerian War of Independence from France in the 1950s.
Even when photographing the famous, she typically opted to shoot them in candid, revealing moments at home. Over the years, she produced richly expressive portraits of film luminaries (Lee Marvin, Sharon Tate, Richard Attenborough and Alan Bates); era-defining models (Twiggy, Joanna Lumley); musicians (Donovan, Édith Piaf, with whom she briefly lived in Paris) and public intellectuals (architect Le Corbusier, writer Italo Calvino).
In 1972, Stafford spent a month shadowing Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India, capturing her in quiet moments at home with her grandchildren and dog, as well in public moments, like visiting soldiers wounded in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971.
Her fashion photography, which she started in the mid-1960s, came at a fortuitous time, with the rise of ready-to-wear, which brought the work of couture designers to the masses. But even when shooting for haute fashion magazines like Vogue, she brought a street-photographer’s taste for the authentic, posing models in Chanel and Givenchy, for example, in front of graffiti-strewn walls of Paris. She was delighted, she told the Times, to be called “a reverse snob” by the fashion editor of Le Figaro.
“I was never interested in studio work,” Stafford said in a 2018 interview with Photomonitor, a photography site, “because my real feeling was out in the world on a documentary and storytelling basis, rather than just photographing the clothes.”
Marilyn Jean Gerson was born Nov. 5, 1925, in Cleveland, the eldest of two daughters of Maurice Gerson, a pharmacist, and Dorothy (Soglovitz) Gerson, who sold antiques.
As a youth, Stafford studied at the Cleveland Play House. But she became aware of human suffering during the Great Depression through documentary photography, such as Dorothea Lange’s photographs of migrant families escaping the Dust Bowl.
“From an early age, I was aware that horrible things could happen,” she said in a 2021 interview with Digital Camera World, a photography magazine. “But also, that something could be done about them if there was the will, and eventually it seemed to me that photography might be an answer, although that realization only came a lot later.”
Stafford studied English and drama for a time at the University of Wisconsin before moving to New York in 1946 to pursue a stage career. She made ends meet as an assistant to fashion photographer Francesco Scavullo. In 1949, she followed a friend in a move to Paris, which would become her home for more than a decade.
Landing a coveted singing gig at a dinner club off the Champs-Élysées called Chez Carrère, Stafford befriended entertainers like Noël Coward, Maurice Chevalier and Piaf as well as giants of photojournalism like Cartier-Bresson and combat photographer Robert Capa, who were among the founders of Magnum Photos.
Stafford told Capa that she was losing her singing voice and looking for a new career direction. He suggested that she work as an assistant to another Magnum founder and combat photographer, David Seymour, who was known professionally as Chim. Stafford had no desire to dodge bullets in war zones, Jeffs said in an email. Instead, she took a job in fashion public relations. (Capa was killed in 1954 when he stepped on a land mine while covering the First Indochina War; Seymour was killed by an Egyptian sniper two years later while covering the Suez crisis.)
Stafford would, however, soon travel to trouble spots around the world with her husband, Robin Stafford, a foreign correspondent for the British newspaper The Daily Express, whom she married in 1958 after a brief marriage to Joseph Kohn, a filmmaker.
She was six months pregnant with their daughter, Lina, when she followed Robin Stafford on an assignment to cover the war in Algeria. Marilyn Stafford considered the trip a work assignment of sorts for her as well. She took harrowing shots of Algerian refugees in Tunisia. “Nobody seemed concerned about the refugee crisis that was unfolding,” she said in the Times interview last year.
Upon returning to Paris, she sent her photos to Cartier-Bresson, who selected the best and sent them to The Observer, another British newspaper. It published two of her photos on the front page, one of a refugee mother, caked in dirt, nursing her child. The pictures helped raise awareness of the crisis.
The Staffords subsequently settled for periods in Rome, Beirut and New York. After the couple divorced in 1965, Marilyn Stafford moved to London and co-founded an agency specializing in fashion, partly as a means to fund her photojournalistic work. Fashion “has its fun side,” she told Photomonitor, “so that balances my serious side, if you will.”
She is survived by her daughter and a grandson. Her third husband, João Manuel Viera, whom she married in 2001, died in 2016.
In 2017, she founded The Marilyn Stafford FotoReportage Award, in collaboration with FotoDocument, a nonprofit organization that supports environmental and social photography around the world.
Stafford retired in the 1980s to learn Mandarin, write poetry and support human rights initiatives. Or maybe her razor-sharp photographic vision had lost a bit of clarity. “Many years ago,” she said, “a photographer in New York told me, ‘Photographers don’t grow old; they just grow out of focus.’” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Photojournalism; Journalists; Photographers; Deaths

Identifier / keyword: United States; Theater (Broadway); Theater; Lumley, Joanna; Calvino, Italo; Piaf, Edith; Avedon, Richard; Pakistan; Wisconsin; Tunisia; Egypt; Le Corbusier; Attenborough, Richard; Gandhi, Indira; University Of Wisconsin; France; Capa, Robert; Chevalier, Maurice; Givenchy; Cleveland Play House; Penn, Irving; Vogue; Le Figaro (Newspaper); Brighton (England); Princeton U niversity; London Daily Express; Rome (Italy); Twiggy; Princeton (Nj); Journey To Lead; India; Cartier Bresson, Henri; New York Times; Champs Elysees (Paris); Tate, Sharon; Sussex (England); Coward, Noel; Marvin, Lee; New Jersey; England; Algeria; Great Britain; Einstein, Albert; Out Publishing Inc; Paris (France); London (England); Magnum Photos; Stafford, Marilyn (1925 ); Lange, Dorothea; Chanel Sa; Chim (1911 56); Seymour, David (1911 56); Culture (Arts); Newspapers; Writing And Writers; Cameras; Suez Crisis (1956); Breastfeeding; Time; Architecture; Refugees And Displaced Persons; Nuclear Weapons; Nineteen Hundred Fifties; Arab Israeli War (1948); Serial Murders; Music; Careers And Professions; Actors And Actresses; #Metoo Movement; Sex Crimes; Politics And Government; Mines, Explosive; Accidents And Safety; Hiring And Promotion; Great Depression (1930's); Archives And Records; Movies; Algerian War (1954 62); International Relations; Women And Girls; Deaths (Obituaries); Magazines; Fashion And Apparel; News And News Media; Models (Professional); Documentary Films And Programs

Title: Marilyn Stafford, a Photojournalist Rediscovered, Dies at 97

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-24 @ 20:11

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2768822396

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/marilyn-stafford-photojournalist-rediscovered/docview/2768822396/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Images That Come Alive In Endless Combinations: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Mitter, Siddhartha

Publication info: Mitter, Siddhartha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/images-that-come-alive-endless-combinations/docview/2767729962/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Every winter in the early 1980s, a sturdy bus departed Kolkata, India, for a concert tour of provincial towns. On board were some of North India's finest classical musicians, world-recognized artists like the vocalist Girija Devi, the flutist Hariprasad Chaurasia, or the tabla player Zakir Hussain.
They traveled at close quarters. The musicians napped on mattresses in the back of the bus, improvised roadside cricket matches and gathered for post-concert music sessions in hotel rooms or spartan dormitory halls.
With them was an outlier: Dayanita Singh, then a design student in her early 20s, with a camera. Six years in a row, from 1981 to 1986, she rode with the musicians, witnessed their debates and small talk, watched them ready in green rooms -- and she photographed.
Singh would become one of the world's most distinguished photographers, winning the 2022 Hasselblad Award, whose past laureates include Wolfgang Tillmans, Cindy Sherman and Henri Cartier-Bresson. She photographs families across generations; shopkeepers, society ladies and students, often in groups, mid-conversation; file rooms full of dusty folders; and subtropical modernist buildings.
But those musician tours, Singh, 61, said recently via video from her home in Delhi, instilled the core values of her work. "I learned life," she said. She absorbed the respectful conviviality among the musicians, their generosity toward audiences, their ethos of daily practice. "All that became my training," she said.
Singh's largest-ever exhibition, "Dancing With My Camera," is currently on view at the Villa Stuck museum, in Munich, through March 19. It presents her signature aesthetic -- instinctively composed black-and-white images that always feel close yet never prying -- and the themes and characters that recur in her oeuvre, like her friend Mona Ahmed, a hijra, or third-gender person, who lived in a Delhi cemetery. But it also reaches back to images from the bus, and from other formative experiences, that she is showing for the first time.
The exhibition showcases Singh's inventive production and display techniques, too: hinged teak structures, displaying multiple photographs, that can be moved around and reconfigured; towers of cubes with images on all sides; boxes of swappable image cards; and hybrid "book objects" that work equally well on the wall or in the museum store.
She has honed these methods for nearly two decades, exhibiting her work in flexible, accessible forms. The inclusion of Singh's early photographs fills out an understanding of her career, showing how her style emerged and how recurring characters like Ahmed first appeared -- and offering a personal immersion into a certain India before the globalization of the 1990s.
For Singh, digging through her early work was no idle pursuit -- it was an encounter with her younger self, she said, from a time when she did not yet consider herself a photographer and, in the male-dominated Indian photo scene of the time, received little validation.
"I was a good photographer when I made those pictures!" Singh said. "But I didn't know it, and nobody else saw it that way."
It took the coronavirus lockdowns of 2020 for her to scan and enlarge her old contact sheets and imagine edits. "Let's See," published last year, collects over 100 of these early images that also appear in the exhibition. With no margins or text, the pictures flicker by: musicians, young people in dorms, elders in faded interiors, policemen on patrol, a man getting a shave in the street, weddings, a cremation.
Later, Singh would make some famous individual images that have entered the canon as stand-alone classics: some of her portraits of Ahmed, for example; photographs of her mother, Nony Singh, and of herself; a 1999 image of a jumping young woman on the terrace of an ashram in Varanasi; or a girl on a bed, head buried in the pillow in fatigue or boredom, from 2007.
But that's not how she wants you to look. "I'm not even interested in the single good picture," Singh said. "It's really about the sequence that can be endlessly rearranged."
Accordingly, she has parted ways with conventional methods of producing -- and selling -- photography. You cannot buy her work in signed and numbered silver prints. Instead, she collaborates with the German publisher Steidl, using offset printing techniques to produce photograph collections, some stacked in wooden boxes, that the buyer can shuffle and combine -- making the work affordable and, in Singh's view, alive.
The market, Singh said, has turned photography into a luxury good at odds with its vocation. "What art can be disseminated better than photography?" she said. "Yet photography got limited -- it got amputated almost -- with the dictates of the art world, to give it value."
She works with Frith Street Gallery, in London, but also sells her boxes and "book objects" directly at events. That way, she cultivates her own collector base of friends and supporters -- and independence. "I don't have to depend on the traditional art market," she said. "That's great freedom for me as an artist."
Singh's critique is not just economic. Photography, she argues, finds its power in juxtapositions and combinations, in detecting patterns, drawing poetic and emotional connections, and then reshuffling it all to reveal new ways of seeing.
Her photographs do not have titles. Rather, she identifies groupings, often called "museums" -- "Little Ladies Museum," "File Museum," "Museum of Dance" -- into which she places photographs that seem to fit in the moment. An image could drop out of one "museum" and appear in another; whole new "museums" could emerge and disappear. The more images she makes, the more possibilities.
Even though she works with digital cameras alongside film, she will print out a digital contact sheet to work with her hands and scissors. "I'm a tactile person," Singh said. "You need the physical objects."
The exhibition "Dancing With My Camera" was first shown last year at the Gropius Bau, in Berlin, curated by the museum's former director, Stephanie Rosenthal. In a phone interview, Rosenthal linked Singh's physical approach, the hands-on experience she wishes for viewers and the content of the photographs.
"Her relation to the camera is a very bodily one," Rosenthal said. "The photos often show a connection between people: combing hair, dancing, laying together. If you think beyond art-historical categories, her work is very much about us as human beings and the way we relate to each other."
Singh grew up camera-aware: Her mother, Nony, frequently photographed her, driving her to exasperation. "I'm very conscious how uncomfortable it is to be in front of the camera," Singh said. But she also recognized the albums and tabletop photo compilations that Nony made as fluid curation. "Someone dies, you put their picture in; you don't like an uncle, you take his picture out," Singh said. "You could keep mapping your history."
In the late 1980s, Singh studied at the International Center of Photography in New York. Returning to India, she briefly worked as a photojournalist, but found that foreign editors craved either an exotic India, or images of wretched poverty. She gave up journalism for family portraits. "I could go back year after year to the same people and have a very close relation with them," she said.
In 2001, Singh published "Myself Mona Ahmed" -- a landmark book and a slowly realized, deeply collaborative portrait. The book's release event took place in the cemetery where Ahmed lived, and the project consolidated Singh's reputation. The two stayed close, until Ahmed's death in 2017.
"Mona showed me how to live outside the box," Singh said. A lecture series on photography that she is establishing in India with the Hasselblad prize money will be called the Mona Ahmed Lecture.
She plans to keep pushing the field. "Dancing With My Camera" has been reconfigured in Munich, guided by the Villa Stuck's head of exhibitions, Helena Pereña, including a whole gallery devoted to Singh's book objects. It will morph again on later stops at MUDAM in Luxembourg and the Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art in Porto, Portugal. Sadly, insurance and union rules mean that the displays cannot be reshuffled on the fly by the curators or the security guards, as Singh would prefer. "It would be a live piece, literally‌‌," she said.
Still, she is feeling vindicated in her heterodox ideas. In 2019, she noted, Glenn Lowry, the director of the Museum of Modern Art, told a BBC podcast that her "Museum of Chance" installation was his favorite work in the MoMA collection, because of its ability to continually change. "I've never quite gotten over that!" Singh said. "It must mean that museums have bought into my critique."
Dayanita Singh: Dancing With My Camera
Through March 19 at the Villa Stuck, in Munich; villastuck.de.
Photograph The photographer Dayanita Singh with her photographs at her studio in Delhi, India. Her largest-ever exhibition, "Dancing With My Camera," is at the Villa Stuck museum in Munich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUMYA KHANDELWAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1); Top, from left, Dayanita Singh's images from the collections "Museum of Dance (Mother Loves to Dance)," "Suitcase Museum" and "Musician's Bus." Above, Singh at her studio. Left, a rough draft of "Let's See," a photo book published last year featuring over 100 of the artist's early images. Below left, "Museum of Tanpura," a collection that can be moved around and reconfigured, on view at the Villa Stuck. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAYANITA SINGH; SAUMYA KHANDELWAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JANN AVERWERSER) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C5.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Digital cameras; Photographs; Photographers; Offset printing; Dance; Musicians & conductors; Photography; Art exhibits

Location: India

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/18/arts/design/dayanita-singh-dancing-with-my-camera.html

Title: Images That Come Alive In Endless Combinations:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 23, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767729962

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/images-that-come-alive-endless-combinations/docview/2767729962/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dayanita Singh’s Hands-On Photography

Author: Mitter, Siddhartha

Publication info: Mitter, Siddhartha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dayanita-singh-s-hands-on-photography/docview/2767687991/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Every winter in the early 1980s, a sturdy bus departed Kolkata, India, for a concert tour of provincial towns. On board were some of North India’s finest classical musicians, world-recognized artists like vocalist Girija Devi, flutist Hariprasad Chaurasia, or tabla player Zakir Hussain.
They traveled at close quarters. The musicians napped on mattresses in the back of the bus, improvised roadside cricket matches and gathered for post-concert music sessions in hotel rooms or spartan dormitory halls.
With them was an outlier: Dayanita Singh, then a design student in her early 20s, with a camera. Six years in a row, from 1981 to 1986, she rode with the musicians, witnessed their debates and small talk, watched them ready in green rooms — and she photographed.
Singh would become one of the world’s most distinguished photographers, winning the 2022 Hasselblad Award, whose past laureates include Wolfgang Tillmans, Cindy Sherman and Henri Cartier-Bresson. She photographs families across generations; shopkeepers, society ladies and students, often in groups, mid-conversation; file rooms full of dusty folders; and subtropical modernist buildings.
But those musician tours, Singh, 61, said recently via video from her home in Delhi, instilled the core values of her work. “I learned life,” she said. She absorbed the respectful conviviality among the musicians, their generosity toward audiences, their ethos of daily practice. “All that became my training,” she said.
Singh’s largest-ever exhibition, “Dancing With My Camera,” is on view at the Villa Stuck museum, in Munich, through March 19. It presents her signature aesthetic — instinctively composed black-and-white images that always feel close yet never prying — and the themes and characters that recur in her oeuvre, like her friend Mona Ahmed, a hijra, or third-gender person, who lived in a Delhi cemetery. But it also reaches back to images from the bus, and from other formative experiences, that she is showing for the first time.
The exhibition showcases Singh’s inventive production and display techniques, too: hinged teak structures, displaying multiple photographs, that can be moved around and reconfigured; towers of cubes with images on all sides; boxes of swappable image cards; and hybrid “book objects” that work equally well on the wall or in the museum store. .
She has honed these methods for nearly two decades, exhibiting her work in flexible, accessible forms. The inclusion of Singh’s early photographs fills out an understanding of her career, showing how her style emerged and how recurring characters like Ahmed first appeared — and offering a personal immersion into a certain India before the globalization of the 1990s.
For Singh, digging through her early work was no idle pursuit — it was an encounter with her younger self, she said, from a time when she did not yet consider herself a photographer and, in the male-dominated Indian photo scene of the time, received little validation.
“I was a good photographer when I made those pictures!” Singh said. “But I didn’t know it, and nobody else saw it that way.”
It took the coronavirus lockdowns of 2020 for her to scan and enlarge her old contact sheets and imagine edits. “Let’s See,” published last year, collects over 100 of these early images that also appear in the exhibition. With no margins or text, the pictures flicker by: musicians, young people in dorms, elders in faded interiors, police officers on patrol, a man getting a shave in the street, weddings, a cremation.
Later, Singh would make some famous individual images that have entered the canon as stand-alone classics: some of her portraits of Ahmed, for example; photographs of her mother, Nony Singh, and of herself; a 1999 image of a jumping young woman on the terrace of an ashram in Varanasi; or a girl on a bed, head buried in the pillow in fatigue or boredom, from 2007.
But that’s not how she wants you to look. “I’m not even interested in the single good picture,” Singh said. “It’s really about the sequence that can be endlessly rearranged.”
Accordingly, she has parted ways with conventional methods of producing — and selling — photography. You cannot buy her work in signed and numbered silver prints. Instead, she collaborates with German publisher Steidl, using offset printing techniques to produce photograph collections, some stacked in wooden boxes, that the buyer can shuffle and combine — making the work affordable and, in Singh’s view, alive.
The market, Singh said, has turned photography into a luxury good at odds with its vocation. “What art can be disseminated better than photography?” she said. “Yet photography got limited — it got amputated almost — with the dictates of the art world, to give it value.”
She works with Frith Street Gallery, in London, but also sells her boxes and “book objects” directly at events. That way, she cultivates her own collector base of friends and supporters — and independence. “I don’t have to depend on the traditional art market,” she said. “That’s great freedom for me as an artist.”
Singh’s critique is not just economic. Photography, she argues, finds its power in juxtapositions and combinations, in detecting patterns, drawing poetic and emotional connections, and then reshuffling it all to reveal new ways of seeing.
Her photographs do not have titles. Rather, she identifies groupings, often called “museums” — “Little Ladies Museum,” “File Museum,” “Museum of Dance” — into which she places photographs that seem to fit in the moment. An image could drop out of one “museum” and appear in another; whole new “museums” could emerge and disappear. The more images she makes, the more possibilities.
Even though she works with digital cameras alongside film, she will print out a digital contact sheet to work with her hands and scissors. “I’m a tactile person,” Singh said. “You need the physical objects.”
The exhibition “Dancing With My Camera” was first shown last year at the Gropius Bau, in Berlin, curated by the museum’s former director, Stephanie Rosenthal. In a phone interview, Rosenthal linked Singh’s physical approach, the hands-on experience she wishes for viewers and the content of the photographs.
“Her relation to the camera is a very bodily one,” Rosenthal said. “The photos often show a connection between people: combing hair, dancing, laying together. If you think beyond art-historical categories, her work is very much about us as human beings and the way we relate to each other.”
Singh grew up camera-aware: Her mother, Nony, frequently photographed her, driving her to exasperation. “I’m very conscious how uncomfortable it is to be in front of the camera,” Singh said. But she also recognized the albums and tabletop photo compilations that Nony made as fluid curation. “Someone dies, you put their picture in; you don’t like an uncle, you take his picture out,” Singh said. “You could keep mapping your history.”
In the late 1980s, Singh studied at the International Center of Photography in New York. Returning to India, she briefly worked as a photojournalist, but found that foreign editors craved either an exotic India, or images of wretched poverty. She gave up journalism for family portraits. “I could go back year after year to the same people and have a very close relation with them,” she said.
In 2001, Singh published “Myself Mona Ahmed” — a landmark book and a slowly realized, deeply collaborative portrait. The book’s release event took place in the cemetery where Ahmed lived, and the project consolidated Singh’s reputation. The two stayed close until Ahmed’s death in 2017.
“Mona showed me how to live outside the box,” Singh said. A lecture series on photography that she is establishing in India with the Hasselblad prize money will be called the Mona Ahmed Lecture.
She plans to keep pushing the field. “Dancing With My Camera” has been reconfigured in Munich, guided by the Villa Stuck’s head of exhibitions, Helena Pereña, including a whole gallery devoted to Singh’s book objects. It will morph again on later stops at MUDAM in Luxembourg and the Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art in Porto, Portugal. Sadly, insurance and union rules mean that the displays cannot be reshuffled on the fly by the curators or the security guards, as Singh would prefer. “It would be a live piece, literally,” she said.
Still, she is feeling vindicated in her heterodox ideas. In 2019, she noted, Glenn Lowry, the director of the Museum of Modern Art, told a BBC podcast that her “Museum of Chance” installation was his favorite work in the MoMA collection, because of its ability to continually change. “I’ve never quite gotten over that!” Singh said. “It must mean that museums have bought into my critique.”
—
“ Dayanita Singh: Dancing With My Camera”
Through March 19 at the Villa Stuck, in Munich; villastuck.de. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Photographs; Digital cameras; Offset printing; Musicians & conductors; Photography; Art exhibits

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Identifier / keyword: Entertainment; Arts; International Center Of Photography; British Broadcasting Corp; Varanasi (India); Luxembourg; Portugal; Martin Gropius Bau; Germany; Serralves Museum Of Contemporary Art; Lowry, Glenn D; Oporto (Portugal); Berlin (Germany); Museum Of Modern Art; Delhi (Ny); Steidl Verlag; Cartier Bresson, Henri; Delhi (India); Hussai n, Zakir; Munich (Germany); Museum Villa Stuck (Munich, Germany); Tillmans, Wolfgang; Sherman, Cindy; Kolkata (India); India; Singh, Dayanita; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Security And Warning Systems; Travel And Vacations; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Cameras; News And News Media; Transit Systems; Printing And Allied Trades; Cemeteries; Music; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Finances; Culture (Arts); Age, Chronological; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Dancing; Books And Literature; Television; Nineteen Hund red Eighties; Art; Elections; Museums

Title: Dayanita Singh’s Hands-On Photography

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-22 @ 17:45

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767687991

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dayanita-singh-s-hands-on-photography/docview/2767687991/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dayanita Singh’s Hands-On Photography

Author: Mitter, Siddhartha

Publication info: Mitter, Siddhartha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dayanita-singh-s-hands-on-photography/docview/2766584441/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Every winter in the early 1980s, a sturdy bus departed Kolkata, India, for a concert tour of provincial towns. On board were some of North India’s finest classical musicians, world-recognized artists like vocalist Girija Devi, flutist Hariprasad Chaurasia, or tabla player Zakir Hussain.
They traveled at close quarters. The musicians napped on mattresses in the back of the bus, improvised roadside cricket matches and gathered for post-concert music sessions in hotel rooms or spartan dormitory halls.
With them was an outlier: Dayanita Singh, then a design student in her early 20s, with a camera. Six years in a row, from 1981 to 1986, she rode with the musicians, witnessed their debates and small talk, watched them ready in green rooms — and she photographed.
Singh would become one of the world’s most distinguished photographers, winning the 2022 Hasselblad Award, whose past laureates include Wolfgang Tillmans, Cindy Sherman and Henri Cartier-Bresson. She photographs families across generations; shopkeepers, society ladies and students, often in groups, mid-conversation; file rooms full of dusty folders; and subtropical modernist buildings.
But those musician tours, Singh, 61, said recently via video from her home in Delhi, instilled the core values of her work. “I learned life,” she said. She absorbed the respectful conviviality among the musicians, their generosity toward audiences, their ethos of daily practice. “All that became my training,” she said.
Singh’s largest-ever exhibition, “Dancing With My Camera,” is on view at the Villa Stuck museum, in Munich, through March 19. It presents her signature aesthetic — instinctively composed black-and-white images that always feel close yet never prying — and the themes and characters that recur in her oeuvre, like her friend Mona Ahmed, a hijra, or third-gender person, who lived in a Delhi cemetery. But it also reaches back to images from the bus, and from other formative experiences, that she is showing for the first time.
The exhibition showcases Singh’s inventive production and display techniques, too: hinged teak structures, displaying multiple photographs, that can be moved around and reconfigured; towers of cubes with images on all sides; boxes of swappable image cards; and hybrid “book objects” that work equally well on the wall or in the museum store. .
She has honed these methods for nearly two decades, exhibiting her work in flexible, accessible forms. The inclusion of Singh’s early photographs fills out an understanding of her career, showing how her style emerged and how recurring characters like Ahmed first appeared — and offering a personal immersion into a certain India before the globalization of the 1990s.
For Singh, digging through her early work was no idle pursuit — it was an encounter with her younger self, she said, from a time when she did not yet consider herself a photographer and, in the male-dominated Indian photo scene of the time, received little validation.
“I was a good photographer when I made those pictures!” Singh said. “But I didn’t know it, and nobody else saw it that way.”
It took the coronavirus lockdowns of 2020 for her to scan and enlarge her old contact sheets and imagine edits. “Let’s See,” published last year, collects over 100 of these early images that also appear in the exhibition. With no margins or text, the pictures flicker by: musicians, young people in dorms, elders in faded interiors, police officers on patrol, a man getting a shave in the street, weddings, a cremation.
Later, Singh would make some famous individual images that have entered the canon as stand-alone classics: some of her portraits of Ahmed, for example; photographs of her mother, Nony Singh, and of herself; a 1999 image of a jumping young woman on the terrace of an ashram in Varanasi; or a girl on a bed, head buried in the pillow in fatigue or boredom, from 2007.
But that’s not how she wants you to look. “I’m not even interested in the single good picture,” Singh said. “It’s really about the sequence that can be endlessly rearranged.”
Accordingly, she has parted ways with conventional methods of producing — and selling — photography. You cannot buy her work in signed and numbered silver prints. Instead, she collaborates with German publisher Steidl, using offset printing techniques to produce photograph collections, some stacked in wooden boxes, that the buyer can shuffle and combine — making the work affordable and, in Singh’s view, alive.
The market, Singh said, has turned photography into a luxury good at odds with its vocation. “What art can be disseminated better than photography?” she said. “Yet photography got limited — it got amputated almost — with the dictates of the art world, to give it value.”
She works with Frith Street Gallery, in London, but also sells her boxes and “book objects” directly at events. That way, she cultivates her own collector base of friends and supporters — and independence. “I don’t have to depend on the traditional art market,” she said. “That’s great freedom for me as an artist.”
Singh’s critique is not just economic. Photography, she argues, finds its power in juxtapositions and combinations, in detecting patterns, drawing poetic and emotional connections, and then reshuffling it all to reveal new ways of seeing.
Her photographs do not have titles. Rather, she identifies groupings, often called “museums” — “Little Ladies Museum,” “File Museum,” “Museum of Dance” — into which she places photographs that seem to fit in the moment. An image could drop out of one “museum” and appear in another; whole new “museums” could emerge and disappear. The more images she makes, the more possibilities.
Even though she works with digital cameras alongside film, she will print out a digital contact sheet to work with her hands and scissors. “I’m a tactile person,” Singh said. “You need the physical objects.”
The exhibition “Dancing With My Camera” was first shown last year at the Gropius Bau, in Berlin, curated by the museum’s former director, Stephanie Rosenthal. In a phone interview, Rosenthal linked Singh’s physical approach, the hands-on experience she wishes for viewers and the content of the photographs.
“Her relation to the camera is a very bodily one,” Rosenthal said. “The photos often show a connection between people: combing hair, dancing, laying together. If you think beyond art-historical categories, her work is very much about us as human beings and the way we relate to each other.”
Singh grew up camera-aware: Her mother, Nony, frequently photographed her, driving her to exasperation. “I’m very conscious how uncomfortable it is to be in front of the camera,” Singh said. But she also recognized the albums and tabletop photo compilations that Nony made as fluid curation. “Someone dies, you put their picture in; you don’t like an uncle, you take his picture out,” Singh said. “You could keep mapping your history.”
In the late 1980s, Singh studied at the International Center of Photography in New York. Returning to India, she briefly worked as a photojournalist, but found that foreign editors craved either an exotic India, or images of wretched poverty. She gave up journalism for family portraits. “I could go back year after year to the same people and have a very close relation with them,” she said.
In 2001, Singh published “Myself Mona Ahmed” — a landmark book and a slowly realized, deeply collaborative portrait. The book’s release event took place in the cemetery where Ahmed lived, and the project consolidated Singh’s reputation. The two stayed close until Ahmed’s death in 2017.
“Mona showed me how to live outside the box,” Singh said. A lecture series on photography that she is establishing in India with the Hasselblad prize money will be called the Mona Ahmed Lecture.
She plans to keep pushing the field. “Dancing With My Camera” has been reconfigured in Munich, guided by the Villa Stuck’s head of exhibitions, Helena Pereña, including a whole gallery devoted to Singh’s book objects. It will morph again on later stops at MUDAM in Luxembourg and the Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art in Porto, Portugal. Sadly, insurance and union rules mean that the displays cannot be reshuffled on the fly by the curators or the security guards, as Singh would prefer. “It would be a live piece, literally,” she said.
Still, she is feeling vindicated in her heterodox ideas. In 2019, she noted, Glenn Lowry, the director of the Museum of Modern Art, told a BBC podcast that her “Museum of Chance” installation was his favorite work in the MoMA collection, because of its ability to continually change. “I’ve never quite gotten over that!” Singh said. “It must mean that museums have bought into my critique.”
—
“ Dayanita Singh: Dancing With My Camera”
Through March 19 at the Villa Stuck, in Munich; villastuck.de. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Digital cameras; Photographs; Offset printing; Musicians & conductors; Photography; Art exhibits

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Identifier / keyword: Entertainment; Arts; International Center Of Photography; British Broadcasting Corp; Varanasi (India); Luxembourg; Portugal; Martin Gropius Bau; Germany; Serralves Museum Of Contemporary Art; Lowry, Glenn D; Oporto (Portugal); Berlin (Germany); Death (Music Group); Oprah Winfrey Network; Museum Of Modern Art; Delhi (Ny); Steidl Verlag; Freedom (Me); Cartier Bresson, Henri; Delhi (India); Hussain, Zakir; Munich (Germany); Museum Villa Stuck (Munich, Germany); Tillmans, Wolfgang; Sherman, Cindy; Kolkata (India); India; Singh, Dayanita; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Security And Warning Systems; Travel And Vacations; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Cameras; News And News Media; Transit Systems; Cricket (Game); Printing And Allied Trades; Cemeteries; Music; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Finances; Culture (Arts); Age, Chronological; Conventions, Fair s And Trade Shows; Dancing; Books And Literature; Television; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Art; Elections; Museums

Title: Dayanita Singh’s Hands-On Photography

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 18, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-18 @ 23:52

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766584441

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dayanita-singh-s-hands-on-photography/docview/2766584441/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At the Golden Globes, a Night of Statement-Making: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-golden-globes-night-statement-making/docview/2764061474/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The awards show returned, and so did major dressing up.
So the Golden Globes returned, two years after disappearing from our screens, first because of a pandemic-induced lockdown and then because of scandal -- financial, ethical and racial. And with their disappearance went the first major red carpet of that phenomenon otherwise known as the Extended Awards Season Fashion Show.
Before the event, speculation was rife: Would stars actually show up for the tarnished Hollywood Foreign Press Association? And if they did, would they seek to play down their connection with the evening's awards by dressing down? Would they stay away from eye-catching ensembles, in favor of the forgettably banal and the bland?
As if. Globes night turned out to be a night of statement-making, onstage and on the red carpet. Not so much of the marketing or branding kind, but rather of the personal kind. And it was the more interesting for it.
Jerrod Carmichael, the host, set the tone with an opening monologue that addressed the Globes' historical lack of diversity without pulling any punches and went on from there -- with a matching set of six (count 'em) outfit changes that included two skinny black velvet suits (the first by Armani); a symphony of pinks; one white tuxedo with a sheer turtleneck and pearl necklace; and a Bode beaded tunic. It may be a record for number of award show looks worn by a single host. If some fashion brand doesn't sign him up immediately, it'll be the biggest surprise of the night.
Still, go big or go home seemed to be the general theme. Rihanna, making her first major post-baby event appearance, swaddled herself in a black velvet Schiaparelli bustier dress and an enormous shoulder-swallowing sculpted velvet stole, plus velvet opera gloves and Cartier diamonds.
Angela Bassett played a silver superhero in Pamela Rolland sequins. Laverne Cox channeled Marilyn Monroe in a blond bob and vintage Galliano gown. And Jessica Chastain got caught in a gossamer beaded Oscar de la Renta spiderweb -- with a matching mask. She was one of the few attendees to nod to the continued reality of Covid.
Royalty was a trend, represented in a plethora of red (Lily James in a bandeau top from which was suspended acres of swagged Versace skirting and Billy Porter in a cardinal velvet Christian Siriano coatdress with a sweeping train) and purple (Selena Gomez in Valentino and Sheryl Lee Ralph in glimmering Aliétte). This was probably not surprising given the recently unavoidable nature of the subject thanks to Prince Harry's memoir.
Also pink, courtesy of Seth Rogen in salmon Dior Men and Margot Robbie in powder puff Chanel. (Rumors of her separation from the brand appear to be highly exaggerated.) And overblown rosettes on lapels, as represented by Eddie Redmayne's chocolate Valentino, Diego Calva's forest green Gucci and Emma D'Arcy's oversize Acne Studios satin tux, skirt and trousers, chosen because, they said, "nothing says nonbinary like wearing both a skirt and trousers."
There was a lot of speaking-in-clothes going on. Michaela Jaé Rodriguez, in draped sapphire Balmain, told E! that her dress was "giving water butterfly." Michelle Williams, in cascading tiers of Gucci ruffles, looked like sea coral, wafting in the waves. And Jenny Slate, in leaf green Rodarte with a bloom at the throat, said she wanted to look "like a woman who's about to turn into a magical plant." Why not? It's the beginning of the year. Anything could happen.
Donald Glover said he was going for comfort, and the chance to get "mildly drunk," with his white silk YSL pajama-and-robe set under his tux, possibly the perfect combination of working-from-home dressing meets black tie. You can go from the ballroom to the bedroom in one easy step.
Indeed, it was but one of a variety of contemporary twists on ye olde tux, as modeled most successfully by Jean Smart in an elegant, sharp-shouldered tuxedo dress with an actual twist at the waist, and Hannah Einbinder in a strapless black Carolina Herrera tea dress with a white bow at the bodice.
She looked as if she could move, as did Letitia Wright, in a simple Prada trompe l'oeil silk column dress, deliberately crumpled and splotched with a rough-cut slash at the leg that was an ode of sorts to the elegance of imperfection. Like the night itself, it was a reminder that when it comes to our flaws, it's how you deal with them that matters.
Photograph Above, Rihanna in Schiaparelli; right, Letitia Wright in Prada; from far left, Michelle Williams in Gucci, Billy Porter in Christian Siriano and Selena Gomez in Valentino. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JON KOPALOFF/GETTY IMAGES; CAROLINE BREHMAN/ EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES); Above, the show's host, Jerrod Carmichael, who made six outfit changes; below, from left, Seth Rogen in Dior Men, Diego Calva in Gucci and Emma D'Arcy in Acne Studios satin tux, skirt and trousers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER POLK/NBC, VIA GETTY IMAGES; RICH POLK/NBC VIA GETTY IMAGES; AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES; DANIELE VENTURELLI/WIREIMAGE; JON KOPALOFF/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Golden Globe awards

People: Wright, Letitia; Rogen, Seth; Carmichael, Jerrod; Siriano, Christian; Gomez, Selena

Company / organization: Name: Acne Studios; NAICS: 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/11/style/golden-globes-fashion.html

Title: At the Golden Globes, a Night of Statement-Making:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 12, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2764061474

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-golden-globes-night-statement-making/docview/2764061474/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

100 Years Since the Birth of the Soviet Union, in Pictures: [Foreign Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/100-years-since-birth-soviet-union-pictures/docview/2761831846/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It was supposed to be "a voluntary association of peoples with equal rights," one that would guarantee the "peaceful coexistence and fraternal cooperation of peoples" while serving as "a faithful bulwark against world capitalism."
It was to be called the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
On Dec. 30, 1922, in a meeting at Moscow's Bolshoi Theater of Communist delegates from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and the Caucasus region, the Soviet Union was born.
The result was the largest country by landmass in modern history, spanning two continents, which emerged victorious in 1945 with the Western Allies in the most destructive war known to man. The Soviet Union killed millions in famine and the Gulag prison camps, deported millions of members of ethnic minority groups from their homes, and kept Europe divided and unfree for two generations. It put the first satellite into orbit and the first person into space, while engaging in an arms race that created nuclear arsenals big enough to extinguish human life on Earth.
And it lasted less than seven decades, ending with the strokes of politicians' pens in December 1991.
But a full century after the founding of the U.S.S.R., the shadow it cast has grown only deeper; its imprint on history only more tragic. It is the disintegration of the Soviet Union that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, in his convoluted logic, says he wants to remedy by waging war against Ukraine; it is the legacy of Moscow's dominance that Ukrainians hope to free themselves of by defeating Russia.
A rose-colored view of a Soviet Union globally respected, thriving and content has become part of Mr. Putin's ideology in the war, driving a nostalgia for empire that the Kremlin's propaganda is fueling not just among older generations who remember the Soviet era, but also among young people who do not. In Ukraine, where Soviet symbols and street names are now outlawed, that history is increasingly seen through the prism of the deprivations that Ukrainians endured.
"Ukrainians went through genocide," President Volodymyr Zelensky said in November, referring to the Holodomor famine of 1932 and 1933 that killed millions. "And today we are doing everything possible and impossible to stop Russia's new genocidal policies."
With the layered realities of the Soviet past looming over the war in Ukraine, editors of The New York Times pored over thousands of archival photographs to create a look back at the Soviet Union and its people. Here is their selection.
The Russian Communist leader Vladimir Lenin giving a speech in Moscow in May 1920 to men of the Red Army leaving for the front during the Polish-Soviet War.
A couple with their starving children during a famine in the Soviet Union circa 1922.
Soviet officials displaying the Russian crown jewels in 1922. Russia's last czar, Nicholas II, had been killed along with his family four years earlier.
Farmers marching to the collective fields in a Russian town in 1931. Forced collectivization of agriculture under Joseph Stalin, Lenin's successor as the Soviet leader, drove a wave of famine in the early 1930s. It was particularly deadly in Ukraine, where it killed millions and became known as the Holodomor, meaning "death by hunger." Many historians say Stalin orchestrated the famine there.
Leon Trotsky at his home in Turkey in 1931. A key revolutionary leader, he was exiled from the Soviet Union in the late 1920s after losing a power struggle with Stalin, and was eventually assassinated in Mexico in 1940.
Members of a collective farm near Moscow, New Life, left their children in a nursery before going to work in 1931.
Stalin in his office in 1932. He would be the Soviet Union's dictator for almost three decades, presiding over murderous repression and a ruthless drive to become a world industrial and military power.
Homeless peasants near Kyiv, Ukraine, in the 1930s.
Soldiers from the Soviet Union marching along the coast line of the Arctic Ocean in 1939.
Soviet soldiers distributing Moscow newspapers near Vilna, Poland, in 1939. Soviet troops entered the country from the east weeks after Nazi Germany invaded from the west, and shortly after the two powers signed a secret deal to divide the territory, alongside a public nonaggression treaty.
Russian prisoners of war taken during fighting in Ukraine on their way to a Nazi prison camp in September 1941. Hitler had begun his assault on the Soviet Union that June, casting aside his promises and, by forcing Stalin into an all-out conflict, transforming the prospects of the Allied side in World War II.
Women and men digging anti-tank trenches in Leningrad in 1941. The city, which after the Soviet era regained its original name, Saint Petersburg, endured more than two years of a siege that killed about a million civilians.
Soviet troops trench fighting during an attack in 1941.
Leaving a son to the partisans, Leningrad 1942.
The Battle of Stalingrad, 1942 or 1943. The monthslong struggle for the industrial city, now known as Volgograd, is ranked among the decisive confrontations of World War II, turning back the Nazi advance at an enormous human cost.
By the time Stalingrad was liberated, in 1943, its population had fallen from half a million to 35,000. In total, the Soviet Union lost an estimated 27 million people in the war with Nazi Germany, a conflict still known across the post-Soviet region as the Great Patriotic War.
Prisoners in the Vorkuta Gulag, a major Soviet labor camp, in 1945.
Red Army soldiers hoisted the Soviet flag from a balcony of the Hotel Adlon in front of Soviet units gathering at Brandenburg Gate in Berlin in 1945. The victory over fascism, and the collective struggle to achieve it, would become an enduring keynote of Soviet pride and propaganda, one that Mr. Putin has worked to revive and exploit.
Stalin met with his fellow Allied leaders, Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt, in the resort city of Yalta in Crimea in February 1945 to plan for the end of the war. The Yalta Conference laid out the contours of what would become the Cold War world, in which the Soviet Union came to dominate Eastern Europe, and has been a subject of controversy for decades.
Families of a collective farm gathered for a meal in Ukraine in 1947.
Stalin in his coffin in 1953.
An elementary school in Moscow in 1954.
In October 1956, a student protest in Budapest against Soviet domination of Hungary sparked an armed uprising that seemed briefly on the verge of achieving its aims, with a new prime minister promising liberalization. Instead, within days, Soviet tanks were sent to Budapest to crush the Hungarian revolution.
Practicing positions at the Bolshoi Ballet School in 1958.
Moscow in 1963.
During the height of Soviet-Cuban cooperation, the Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev welcomed the Cuban leader Fidel Castro at the Kremlin in 1961.
A U.S. patrol plane flying over a Soviet freighter during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. After the Soviet Union stationed nuclear-armed missiles on the island, the United States launched a blockade, in a standoff that brought the world to the brink of nuclear war.
A Russian intercontinental ballistic missile crossing Red Square in 1965, during a military parade in Moscow marking the 20th anniversary of the end of the war in Europe.
A subway station in Moscow in 1967. Metro systems built on a grand scale became a symbol of Soviet might.
A parade of young Russian sportsmen during May Day celebrations in Red Square in 1969.
Soviet tanks rolled into another neighboring country in 1968 to crush the "Prague Spring" -- a brief period of liberalization in Communist Czechoslovakia.
The crew of the Soyuz 9 spaceflight, Cmdr. Andriyan Nikolayev, right, and Vitaly Sevastyanov, a flight engineer, during training in a simulator at the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center in 1970.
Visitors celebrating Saint George near the Alaverdi monastery in Georgia in 1972. The Soviet Union sought to eradicate religion without officially banning it.
The Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev at a summit with President Ronald Reagan in Geneva in 1985. Mr. Gorbachev, who took power that year, tried to reform the Soviet Union but ended up presiding over its collapse.
A Soviet technician decontaminating clothes and equipment in the wake of the Chernobyl nuclear plant disaster in Ukraine in 1986. The explosion and fire at the plant had an initial death toll of more than 30 and spread radioactive contamination across Europe. It also shook the Soviet Union's self-image as a scientific superpower.
Soviet soldiers crossing a bridge on the border between Afghanistan and then Soviet Uzbekistan in 1989. The withdrawal ended almost a decade of war that had become a costly humiliation for the Soviet Union.
East German border guards seen through a gap in the Berlin Wall after demonstrators pulled down a segment near Brandenburg Gate in 1989. This time, as a wave of peaceful revolutions swept Soviet-controlled Europe, the tanks largely did not arrive.
Outside a state-owned television shop in Moscow in 1991. Customers had to wait many years for the day when they could visit this store for a prized black-and-white set. For most Russians, liberalization did not bring prosperity.
A long line outside the first McDonald's in the Soviet Union on its opening day in Moscow in 1990.
Soviet troops in Moscow in May 1990.
Soviet mothers who lost their sons in the armed forces holding photographs of their loved ones during a protest in Red Square in 1990.
A Lithuanian woman resting by a fire outside Parliament in Vilnius in 1991, after spending the night guarding the building with other pro-independence citizens. Here, after the Baltic nation declared its independence, civilians did face Soviet tanks.
A Moscow crowd celebrating in 1991 after reports that a coup against Mr. Gorbachev by hard-line Communist Party officials had failed.
Boris Yeltsin, seen here in Moscow in 1991 raising his fist to express solidarity with thousands gathered to pay their respects to the victims of the failed coup, became president of Soviet Russia in 1990 and became the face of opposition to the coup and of more radical liberalization. After Mr. Gorbachev announced the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Mr. Yeltsin became the first president of the new Russian Federation.
Toppling the statue of Felix Dzerzhinsky, founder of the Soviet secret police force that became known as the K.G.B., in Moscow in 1991.
Removing a portrait of Lenin in Baku in 1991. Azerbaijan was proclaimed a Soviet Socialist Republic in 1920.
Bus commuters in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk in 1991.
A Russian woman near a vandalized emblem of Communism, the Hammer and Sickle, in Moscow in 1990. The Yeltsin years would bring new freedoms but also economic shock therapy, chaos, corruption and hardship for many ordinary Russians. In 1999, he resigned in favor of Mr. Putin.
Produced by Craig Allen, Mona Boshnaq, Adam Dean, Sarah Eckinger and Mikko Takkunen, with introductory text by Anton Troianovski.
Produced by Craig Allen, Mona Boshnaq, Adam Dean, Sarah Eckinger and Mikko Takkunen, with introductory text by Anton Troianovski.
Credit: By The New York Times
Photograph The Russian Communist leader Vladimir Lenin giving a speech in Moscow in May 1920 to men of the Red Army leaving for the front during the Polish-Soviet War. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEYSTONE, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Soviet troops trench fighting during an attack in 1941. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRI BALTERMANTS/MAGNUM PHOTOS); The Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev at a summit with President Ronald Reagan in Geneva in 1985. Mr. Gorbachev, who took power that year, tried to reform the Soviet Union but ended up presiding over its collapse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HULTON ARCHIVE, VIA GETTY IMAGES; HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS; PETER MARLOW/MAGNUM PHOTOS); Red Army soldiers hoisted the Soviet flag from a balcony of the Hotel Adlon in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin in 1945. The victory over fascism would become an enduring keynote of Soviet pride and propaganda, one that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has worked to revive and exploit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DPA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); Top, homeless people near Kyiv, Ukraine, in the 1930s. Middle, visitors celebrating St. George near the Alaverdi monastery in Georgia in 1972. The Soviet Union sought to eradicate religion without officially banning it. Above, members of New Life, a collective farm near Moscow, left their children in a nursery before going to work in 1931. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRESS CLICHE) This article appeared in print on page A5.

Subject: Cooperation; Decades; Liberalization; World War II; Famine; Propaganda; Nazi era; Military personnel; Genocide

Business indexing term: Subject: Liberalization

Location: Russia; United States--US; Union of Soviet Socialist Republics--USSR; Germany; Ukraine; Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/30/world/europe/soviet-union-100-years-in-pictures.html

Title: 100 Years Since the Birth of the Soviet Union, in Pictures:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 9, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761831846

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/100-years-since-birth-soviet-union-pictures/docview/2761831846/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions