____________________________________________________________

Why Iowa Turned Into a Beacon That Burns Red After Deep Blue: [National Desk]

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-into-beacon-that-burns-red-after/docview/2911686741/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Over the past 15 years, the Upper Midwest has seen a remarkable state-by-state sorting of voters along partisan lines.
With the Iowa caucuses six days away, politicians will be crisscrossing the state, blowing through small-town Pizza Ranches, filling high school gyms, and flipping pancakes at church breakfasts.
What Iowans will not be seeing are Democrats. President Biden spoke Friday in Pennsylvania, and he and Vice President Kamala Harris both were in South Carolina over the weekend and on Monday. But Iowa, a state that once sizzled with bipartisan politics, launched Barack Obama to the presidency in 2008 and seesawed between Republican and Democratic governors, has largely been ceded to the G.O.P. as part of a remarkable sorting of voters in the Upper Midwest.
There is no single reason that over the past 15 years the Upper Midwest saw Iowa turn into a beacon of Donald J. Trump's populism, North and South Dakota shed storied histories of prairie populism for a conservatism that reflected the national G.O.P., and Illinois and Minnesota move dramatically leftward. (Sandwiched in between, Wisconsin found an uncomfortable parity between its conservative rural counties and its more industrial and academic centers in Milwaukee and Madison.)
No state in the nation swung as heavily Republican between 2012 and 2020 as Iowa, which went from a six-percentage-point victory for Barack Obama to an eight-point win for Mr. Trump in the last presidential election.
Deindustrialization of rural reaches and the Mississippi River regions had its impact, as did the hollowing out of institutions, from civic organizations to small-town newspapers, that had given the Upper Midwest a character separate from national politics.
Susan Laehn, an Iowa State University political scientist who lives in the small town of Jefferson, Iowa, recounted how an issue that once would have been handled through discussions at church or the Rotary Club instead became infected with national politics, with her husband, the libertarian Greene County attorney, stuck in the middle: New multicolored lighting installed last summer to illuminate the town's carillon bell tower prompted an angry debate over L.G.B.T.Q. rights, leaving much of the town soured on identity politics that they largely blamed on the national left.
Another issue: Brain drain. The movement of young college graduates out of Iowa and the Dakotas to the metropolises of Chicago and Minneapolis-St. Paul made a mark on the politics of all five states.
Michael Dabe, a 19-year-old business and marketing major at the University of Dubuque, near the western bank of the Mississippi River, has found a comfortable home in Iowa, where life is slower and simpler than in his native Illinois and politics, he said, are more aligned with his conservative inclinations.
But he expressed little doubt what he will be doing with his business degree once he graduates, and most of his classmates are likely to follow suit, he said.
"There are just so many more opportunities in Chicago," he said. "Politics are important to me, but job security, being able to raise a family more securely, is more important, for sure."
An analysis in 2022 by economists at the University of North Carolina, the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, the University of Michigan and the University of Chicago of data gleaned from LinkedIn showed how states with dynamic economic centers are luring college graduates from more rural states. Iowa loses 34.2 percent of its college graduates, worse than 40 of the 50 states, just below North Dakota, which loses 31.6 percent. Illinois, by contrast, gains 20 percent more college graduates than it produces. Minnesota has about 8 percent more than it produces.
Even when young families look to move back to the rural areas they grew up in, they are often thwarted by an acute housing shortage, said Benjamin Winchester, a rural sociologist at the University of Minnesota extension in St. Cloud, Minn.; 75 percent of rural homeowners are baby boomers or older, and those older residents see boarded-up businesses and believe their communities' best days are behind them, he said.
As such older voters grow frustrated and more conservative, the trend is accelerating. Iowa, which had a congressional delegation split between two House Republicans, two House Democrats and two Republican senators in 2020, now has a government almost wholly under Republican control, which has enacted boldly conservative policies that ban almost all abortions and transition care for minors, publicly fund vouchers for private schools and pull books describing sexual acts from school libraries. (The library and abortion laws are now on hold in the courts.) The congressional delegation is now entirely Republican after a 2022 G.O.P. sweep in House races and the re-election of Senator Charles E. Grassley.
Meantime on the east bank of the Mississippi, in Illinois, high-capacity semiautomatic rifles have been banned, the right to an abortion has been enshrined in law and recreational marijuana is legal. Upriver in Minnesota, pot is legal, unauthorized immigrants are getting driver's licenses, and voting access for felons and teens is expanding.
Such policy dichotomies are influencing the decisions of younger Iowans, said David Loebsack, a former Democratic House member from eastern Iowa.
"These people are going, and I fear they're going to keep going, given the policies that have been adopted," he said.
The politics of rural voters in the Upper Midwest may simply be catching up to other rural regions that turned conservative earlier, said Sam Rosenfeld, a political scientist at Colgate University and author of "The Polarizers," a book on the architects of national polarization. Southern rural white voters turned sharply to the right in the 1960s and 1970s as Black southerners gained power with the civil rights movement and attendant legislation, he noted.
But rural voters in the Upper Midwest, where few Black people lived, held on to a more diverse politics for decades longer. North Dakota, with its state bank, state grain mill and state grain elevator, has retained vestiges of a socialist past, when progressive politicians railed against rapacious businessmen from the Twin Cities. Even still, its politics have changed dramatically.
"Until relatively recently, there was a Midwestern rural white voter who was distinct from a southern rural white voter," Mr. Rosenfeld said. "There was a real progressive tradition in the Midwest uncoopted by Jim Crow and racial issues."
The rural reaches of Iowa now look politically similar to rural stretches in any state, from New York to Alabama to Oregon. And rural voters simply appreciated what Mr. Trump did for them, said Neil Shaffer, who chairs the Republican Party of Howard County, Iowa. Located along the Minnesota border, it was the only county in the nation to give both Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump 20-percentage-point victories.
Iowans like outsiders, and Mr. Obama's charisma was winning, Mr. Shaffer said. But the self-employed farmers and small-business owners of Howard County were burdened by the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration's regulation of fresh water runoff, and depressed commodity prices.
There was skepticism of Mr. Trump and his abrasive, big-city behavior, Mr. Shaffer said, "but there's that individual spirit in the Midwest that likes the Don Quixote railing against the big bad government, And people knew what they were getting."
Kyle D. Kondik of the University of Virginia Center for Politics explains polarization as a tale of the top half versus the bottom half of the population scale. If more than half a state's vote comes from dominant metropolitan areas, as is the case in Illinois and Minnesota, states tend to be Democratic. If smaller, rural counties dominate, states tend to move right.
Of the nine largest counties in Iowa, only one, Dubuque, switched from Mr. Obama to Mr. Trump in 2016. President Biden's margin in those counties in 2020 was only three percentage points lower than Mr. Obama's winning 2012 margin.
But Mr. Obama also carried 31 of the 90 smaller counties; Mr. Biden won none. As a group, Mr. Obama lost those rural counties by 2.5 percentage points to his Republican rival, Mitt Romney. Mr. Biden lost them to Mr. Trump by nearly 30 percentage points.
Mr. Kondik attributed some of that to Mr. Trump, whose anti-immigrant, protectionist policies diverged from traditional Republican positions. "He was a good fit for the Midwest," he said.
Laura Hubka, who co-chairs the Howard County Democrats, remembered high school students driving trucks around town in 2016 with large Trump flags. It felt intimidating, she said.
"It was scary for a lot of people and scared a lot of Democrats inside," Ms. Hubka said. "Trump spoke to a certain kind of people. People who felt like they were left behind."
Chased by the shifting politics, she said, at least one of her children now plans to move his family across the border to Minnesota.
But the sweeping Republican victories in Iowa in 2022, when Mr. Trump was not on the ballot and the G.O.P. faltered in much of the country, point to other factors. Christopher Larimer, a political scientist at the University of Northern Iowa, again pointed to demographics. The huge groundswell of first-time 18-year-old voters who propelled Mr. Obama in 2008 were 22 and graduating college in 2012. By 2016, many of them had likely left the state, Mr. Larimer said.
"I don't know if Iowa is any different from anywhere else; it's caught up in the nationalization of politics," he said. "Young people are moving into the urban core, and that's turning the outskirts more red."
If that urban core is in state, statewide results won't change. If it is elsewhere, they will.
Mr. Winchester, the rural sociologist, said the perception of rural decline is not reality; regional centers, like Bemidji, Minn., or Pella and Davenport, Iowa, are thriving, and even if small-town businesses have closed, housing in those towns is filled.
But, he said, "many towns don't know their place in the larger world. That concept of anomie, a sense of disconnection, is out there."
Gary Hillmer, a retired U.S. Agriculture Department soil conservationist in Hardin County, Iowa, has drifted away from his Republican roots and said he struggled to understand the views of his Trump-supporting neighbors in the farm country around Iowa Falls.
"It's hard to have a conversation with them to figure out why," he said. "It's frustrating, in that regard, because we ought to be able to talk to each other."
Charles Homans and Cindy Hadish contributed reporting.
Charles Homans and Cindy Hadish contributed reporting.
Photograph Former President Barack Obama carried Iowa in 2008 and 2012, while President Biden lost it by 8 points in 2020. No state swung as heavily Republican as Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Michael Dabe, a freshman at the University of Dubuque, in his room at his parent's home on Sunday. Mr. Dabe expects to move to Chicago after graduation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAYLA WOLF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Supporters of former President Donald J. Trump watched him speak at a rally in Iowa in October. Rural voters were said to appreciate what Mr. Trump did for them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A13.

Subject: Political parties; College graduates; Rural areas; Presidential elections; Baby boomers; Abortion; Populism; Partisanship; Voter behavior

Location: North Dakota; Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Illinois; Minnesota; Iowa; Mississippi River

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr; Obama, Barack; Trump, Donald J

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/08/us/politics/iowa-republicans-red.html

Title: Why Iowa Turned Into a Beacon That Burns Red After Deep Blue:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 9, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2911686741

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-into-beacon-that-burns-red-after/docview/2911686741/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Iowa Turned So Red When Nearby States Went Blue

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-so-red-when-nearby-states-went/docview/2911553030/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DES MOINES, Iowa — With the Iowa caucuses six days away, politicians will be crisscrossing the state, blowing through small-town Pizza Ranches, filling high school gyms, and flipping pancakes at church breakfasts.
What Iowans will not be seeing are Democrats. President Joe Biden spoke Friday in Pennsylvania, and he and Vice President Kamala Harris both were in South Carolina over the weekend and on Monday. But Iowa, a state that once sizzled with bipartisan politics, launched Barack Obama to the presidency in 2008 and seesawed between Republican and Democratic governors, has largely been ceded to the GOP as part of a remarkable sorting of voters in the Upper Midwest.
There is no single reason that over the past 15 years the Upper Midwest saw Iowa turn into a beacon of Donald Trump’s populism, North and South Dakota shed storied histories of prairie populism for a conservatism that reflected the national GOP, and Illinois and Minnesota move dramatically leftward. (Sandwiched in between, Wisconsin found an uncomfortable parity between its conservative rural counties and its more industrial and academic centers in Milwaukee and Madison.)
No state in the nation swung as heavily Republican between 2012 and 2020 as Iowa, which went from a 6-percentage-point victory for Barack Obama to an 8-point win for Trump in the last presidential election.
Deindustrialization of rural reaches and the Mississippi River regions had its impact, as did the hollowing out of institutions, from civic organizations to small-town newspapers, that had given the Upper Midwest a character separate from national politics.
Susan Laehn, an Iowa State University political scientist who lives in the small town of Jefferson, Iowa, recounted how an issue that once would have been handled through discussions at church or the Rotary Club instead became infected with national politics, with her husband, the libertarian Greene County attorney, stuck in the middle: New multicolored lighting installed last summer to illuminate the town’s carillon bell tower prompted an angry debate over LGBTQ+ rights, leaving much of the town soured on identity politics that they largely blamed on the national left.
Another issue: Brain drain. The movement of young college graduates out of Iowa and the Dakotas to the metropolises of Chicago and Minneapolis-St. Paul made a mark on the politics of all five states.
Michael Dabe, a 19-year-old business and marketing major at the University of Dubuque, near the western bank of the Mississippi River, has found a comfortable home in Iowa, where life is slower and simpler than in his native Illinois and politics, he said, are more aligned with his conservative inclinations.
But he expressed little doubt what he will be doing with his business degree once he graduates, and most of his classmates are likely to follow suit, he said.
“There are just so many more opportunities in Chicago,” he said. “Politics are important to me, but job security, being able to raise a family more securely, is more important, for sure.”
An analysis in 2022 by economists at the University of North Carolina, the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, the University of Michigan and the University of Chicago of data gleaned from LinkedIn showed how states with dynamic economic centers are luring college graduates from more rural states. Iowa loses 34.2% of its college graduates, worse than 40 of the 50 states, just below North Dakota, which loses 31.6%. Illinois, by contrast, gains 20% more college graduates than it produces. Minnesota has about 8% more than it produces.
Even when young families look to move back to the rural areas they grew up in, they are often thwarted by an acute housing shortage, said Benjamin Winchester, a rural sociologist at the University of Minnesota extension in St. Cloud, Minnesota; 75% of rural homeowners are baby boomers or older, and those older residents see boarded-up businesses and believe their communities’ best days are behind them, he said.
As such older voters grow frustrated and more conservative, the trend is accelerating. Iowa, which had a congressional delegation split between two House Republicans, two House Democrats and two Republican senators in 2020, now has a government almost wholly under Republican control, which has enacted boldly conservative policies that ban almost all abortions and transition care for minors, publicly fund vouchers for private schools and pull books describing sexual acts from school libraries. (The library and abortion laws are now on hold in the courts.) The congressional delegation is now entirely Republican after a 2022 GOP sweep in House races and the reelection of Sen. Chuck Grassley.
Meantime on the east bank of the Mississippi, in Illinois, high-capacity semi-automatic rifles have been banned, the right to an abortion has been enshrined in law and recreational marijuana is legal. Upriver in Minnesota, pot is legal, unauthorized immigrants are getting driver’s licenses, and voting access for felons and teens is expanding.
Such policy dichotomies are influencing the decisions of younger Iowans, said David Loebsack, a former Democratic House member from eastern Iowa.
“These people are going, and I fear they’re going to keep going, given the policies that have been adopted,” he said.
The politics of rural voters in the Upper Midwest may simply be catching up to other rural regions that turned conservative earlier, said Sam Rosenfeld, a political scientist at Colgate University and author of “The Polarizers,” a book on the architects of national polarization. Southern rural white voters turned sharply to the right in the 1960s and 1970s as Black southerners gained power with the civil rights movement and attendant legislation, he noted.
But rural voters in the Upper Midwest, where few Black people lived, held on to a more diverse politics for decades longer. North Dakota, with its state bank, state grain mill and state grain elevator, has retained vestiges of a socialist past, when progressive politicians railed against rapacious business interests from the Twin Cities. Even still, its politics have changed dramatically.
“Until relatively recently, there was a Midwestern rural white voter who was distinct from a southern rural white voter,” Rosenfeld said. “There was a real progressive tradition in the Midwest un-co-opted by Jim Crow and racial issues.”
The rural reaches of Iowa now look politically similar to rural stretches in any state, from New York to Alabama to Oregon. And rural voters simply appreciated what Trump did for them, said Neil Shaffer, who chairs the Republican Party of Howard County, Iowa. Located along the Minnesota border, it was the only county in the nation to give both Obama and Trump 20-percentage-point victories.
Iowans like outsiders, and Obama’s charisma was winning, Shaffer said. But the self-employed farmers and small-business owners of Howard County were burdened by the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration’s regulation of fresh water runoff, and depressed commodity prices.
There was skepticism of Trump and his abrasive, big-city behavior, Shaffer said, “but there’s that individual spirit in the Midwest that likes the Don Quixote railing against the big bad government, And people knew what they were getting.”
Kyle Kondik of the University of Virginia Center for Politics explains polarization as a tale of the top half versus the bottom half of the population scale. If more than half a state’s vote comes from dominant metropolitan areas, as is the case in Illinois and Minnesota, states tend to be Democratic. If smaller, rural counties dominate, states tend to move right.
Of the nine largest counties in Iowa, only one, Dubuque, switched from Obama to Trump in 2016. Biden’s margin in those counties in 2020 was only 3 percentage points lower than Obama’s winning 2012 margin.
But Obama also carried 31 of the 90 smaller counties; Biden won none. As a group, Obama lost those rural counties by 2.5 percentage points to his Republican rival, Mitt Romney. Biden lost them to Trump by nearly 30 percentage points.
Kondik attributed some of that to Trump, whose anti-immigrant, protectionist policies diverged from traditional Republican positions. “He was a good fit for the Midwest,” he said.
Laura Hubka, who co-chairs the Howard County Democrats, remembered high school students driving trucks around town in 2016 with large Trump flags. It felt intimidating, she said.
“It was scary for a lot of people and scared a lot of Democrats inside,” Hubka said. “Trump spoke to a certain kind of people. People who felt like they were left behind.”
Chased by the shifting politics, she said, at least one of her children now plans to move his family across the border to Minnesota.
But the sweeping Republican victories in Iowa in 2022, when Trump was not on the ballot and the GOP faltered in much of the country, point to other factors. Christopher Larimer, a political scientist at the University of Northern Iowa, again pointed to demographics. The huge groundswell of first-time 18-year-old voters who propelled Obama in 2008 were 22 and graduating college in 2012. By 2016, many of them had likely left the state, Larimer said.
“I don’t know if Iowa is any different from anywhere else; it’s caught up in the nationalization of politics,” he said. “Young people are moving into the urban core, and that’s turning the outskirts more red.”
If that urban core is in state, statewide results won’t change. If it is elsewhere, they will.
Winchester, the rural sociologist, said the perception of rural decline is not reality; regional centers, like Bemidji, Minnesota, or Pella and Davenport, Iowa, are thriving, and even if small-town businesses have closed, housing in those towns is filled.
But, he said, “many towns don’t know their place in the larger world. That concept of anomie, a sense of disconnection, is out there.”
Gary Hillmer, a retired U.S. Agriculture Department soil conservationist in Hardin County, Iowa, has drifted away from his Republican roots and said he struggled to understand the views of his Trump-supporting neighbors in the farm country around Iowa Falls.
“It’s hard to have a conversation with them to figure out why,” he said. “It’s frustrating, in that regard, because we ought to be able to talk to each other.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: College Graduates; Rural Sociology; High School Students; Graduates; Municipalities; Counties; School Libraries; Political Science; Scientists

Subject: Political parties; College graduates; Rural areas; Presidential elections; Baby boomers; Abortion; Voters; Populism

Location: North Dakota; Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Illinois; Minnesota; Iowa; Mississippi River

People: Obama, Barack

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: University of Dubuque; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Senate; Iowa; Democratic Party; Urban Areas; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Immigration And Emigration; Primaries And Caucuses; Obama, Barack; House Of Representatives; North Dakota; Small Business; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Davenport (Iowa); Conservatism (Us Politics); Iowa State University; Linkedin Corporation; Agriculture Department; Long, Michael R; Youth; Minneapolis (Minn); Presidential Election Of 2020; South Dakota; Midwestern States (Us); Mississippi River; Politics And Government; Ex Convicts; Elections, House Of Representatives; Sociology; Illinois; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Grassley, Charles E; Presidential Election Of 2012; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Presidential Election Of 2024; Winchester (Ill); University Of Minnesota; United States Politics And Government; St Paul (Minn); Wisconsin; Romney, Mitt; Voting And Voters; Black People; Shutdowns (Institutional); South Carolina; University Of Virginia; Rotary Clubs International; Education (K 12); Abortion; Presidential Election Of 2008; New York State; Minnesota; States (Us); Generation Z; Private And Sectarian Schools; University Of Northern Iowa; Univ ersity Of North Carolina; Rural Areas; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Republican Party; Libraries And Librarians; Trump, Donald J; Colgate University; Virginia; Weisman, Jonathan; University Of Chicago; Gun Control; Harris, Kamala D; Chicago (Ill); Madison (Wis); St Cloud (Minn); Colleges And Universities; Milwaukee (Wis); University Of Michigan

Title: Why Iowa Turned So Red When Nearby States Went Blue

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 9, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-09T00:41:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2911553030

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-so-red-when-nearby-states-went/docview/2911553030/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Norman Lear, 101, Who Gave America Sitcom Gold, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Severo, Richard; Keepnews, Peter

Publication info: Severo, Richard; Keepnews, Peter. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norman-lear-101-who-gave-america-sitcom-gold-dies/docview/2899044144/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As the producer of "All in the Family" and many other shows, Mr. Lear showed that it was possible to be topical, funny and immensely popular.
Norman Lear, the television writer and producer who introduced political and social commentary into situation comedy with "All in the Family" and other shows, proving that it was possible to be topical as well as funny while attracting millions of viewers, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 101.
A spokeswoman for the family, Lara Bergthold, confirmed the death.
Mr. Lear reigned at the top of the television world through the 1970s and into the early '80s, leaving a lasting mark with shows that brought the sitcom into the real world.
"The Jeffersons" looked at the struggles faced by an upwardly mobile Black family; a very different Black family on "Good Times" dealt with poverty and discrimination. The protagonist of "Maude" was an outspoken feminist; the heroine of "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman" was plagued by all manner of modern-day problems, not least her own neurosis.
"You looked around television in those years," Mr. Lear said in a 2012 New York Times interview, referring to the middle and late 1960s, "and the biggest problem any family faced was 'Mother dented the car, and how do you keep Dad from finding out'; 'the boss is coming to dinner, and the roast's ruined.' The message that was sending out was that we didn't have any problems."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Mr. Lear's shows sent different messages, far more in tune with what was actually happening in those turbulent times. His crowning achievement was "All in the Family," and his greatest creation was Archie Bunker, the focus of that show and one of the most enduring characters in television history.
An unapologetic bigot who was seemingly always angry at one minority group or another (and usually at least one family member as well), Archie, memorably portrayed by Carroll O'Connor, was also, with his malaprops, his mangled syntax and his misguided enthusiasm, strangely likable.
A Sitcom Shockwave
"All in the Family" sent a shock through the sleepy world of the sitcom with one tart, topical episode after another from the moment it premiered on CBS on Jan. 12, 1971.
Even now, more than 50 years later, there are critics who say that this date should live in infamy, that ABC was right when it turned down the show out of fear that it would offend too many people. Archie, in this view, was a fanatic who made narrow-mindedness seem appealing.
But Mr. Lear, who adapted "All in the Family" from a British sitcom and based Archie in part on his own father, saw it differently. "I've never known a bigot who didn't have something endearing," he once said.
Mr. Lear went on to create a television empire and to become politically active, notably with his founding of the liberal advocacy organization People for the American Way, the kind of organization that Archie Bunker would have enjoyed sneering at.
Archie had choice words for all races, creeds and sexual orientations (except his own), and he didn't spare his family. His sweet and dignified wife, Edith (Jean Stapleton), was a "dingbat"; his daughter, Gloria (Sally Struthers), was "a weepin' Nellie"; his liberal son-in-law, Michael Stivic (Rob Reiner), was a "meathead" and, on occasion, a "dumb Polack." Strictly a law-and-order guy, Archie also voiced strong reservations about what he saw as campus subversives, welfare chiselers and bleeding hearts.
Such pronouncements were scandalous in the prime-time television world of the day. But Mr. Lear had found a gold mine.
"All in the Family" ran until 1979 and dominated the ratings for most of that time. More important, it established a template for television comedy by mixing political and social messages, as well as moments of serious drama, with the laughter.
The Lear philosophy was further developed in two shows built around characters who originally appeared on "All in the Family": "Maude" and "The Jeffersons."
"Maude," which ran from 1972 to 1978 on CBS, centered on Edith Bunker's cousin Maude Findlay (Bea Arthur), who was as much a doctrinaire liberal as Archie was a determined denizen of the far, far right. The show dealt with alcoholism, pot smoking, abortion (Maude herself had one, in a two-part episode that generated outrage as well as applause) and other subjects to which that quick-tongued title character could apply her shrill wisdom.
George Jefferson (Sherman Hemsley), the central character of "The Jeffersons," was a Black man who ran a successful dry-cleaning business in Archie's neighborhood and whose disdain for white people rivaled Archie's for Black people. "The Jeffersons," the story of George's life with his newly moneyed family after they moved to the East Side of Manhattan, ran on CBS from 1975 to 1985.
Not all of Mr. Lear's shows grew out of Archie's universe. One that did not, "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman," raised as many eyebrows as "All in the Family."
A five-episodes-a-week spoof of soap operas, "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman" was the story of a television-obsessed housewife (Louise Lasser in the title role) in the fictional small town of Fernwood, Ohio, who had more than her share of calamity: Her grandfather was a flasher, her mother was a flake, her husband was cheating on her, their daughter was kidnapped, and Mary herself had a breakdown on live TV.
"Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman" was too hot for the networks. Mr. Lear syndicated it himself, and in most markets it was on after the late news.
He said he thought of the show as "affirmative" and its characters as "survivors." But for all the waves they made, they did not survive long.
The show made its debut in 1976, Ms. Lasser left the next year, and, after being replaced for the summer by the talk-show parody "Fernwood 2-Night" (which later morphed into "America 2-Night") and then returning without her as "Forever Fernwood," it was gone by early 1978.
Other Lear shows had longer lives. "Sanford and Son," starring the longtime Black comedian Redd Foxx as an irascible junk dealer -- and, like "All in the Family," based on a successful British sitcom -- ran on NBC from 1972 to 1977. "One Day at a Time" (CBS, 1975-84) concerned a divorced woman (Bonnie Franklin) living on her own with two teenage daughters. "Good Times" (CBS, 1974-79), a spinoff of "Maude," was the story of a hard-working Black woman (Esther Rolle) struggling to raise a family in a Chicago housing project -- at first with her husband (John Amos) and then, when Mr. Amos was let go, as a widow. (Ms. Rolle herself left the show after the fourth season, unhappy with the direction it had taken, but returned a year later.)
Son of a Salesman
Norman Milton Lear was born on July 27, 1922, in New Haven, Conn., to Herman and Jeanette (Seicol) Lear. His father was a salesman of various products who was not very good at selling much of anything, who sometimes ran afoul of the law, and who had, his son later recalled, more than a hint of Archie in him. He would tell his wife to "stifle" herself, just as Archie would with Edith, and more than once told Norman, "You are the laziest white kid I ever saw."
Raised mostly in Hartford, Norman graduated from Weaver High School there in 1940 and attended Emerson College in Boston, but left shortly after the United States entered World War II to enlist in the Army Air Forces. He rose to technical sergeant and flew 52 missions as a radioman, most from a base near Foggia, Italy. He received the Air Medal with four oak-leaf clusters.
After the war, millions of servicemen and women took advantage of the G.I. Bill of Rights to attend college, but Mr. Lear decided he would not return to Emerson. With the help of an uncle who was a press agent, he got a job with the publicity firm of George and Dorothy Ross, who had many clients in the theater. He lasted a year before being fired for planting one too many items that were demonstrably false.
He found a way to put his imagination to better use after he and his first wife, Charlotte, moved to Los Angeles in 1949. For a while he and a friend, Ed Simmons, worked as door-to-door salesmen. Eventually they started to write comedy routines together.
Their break came when Mr. Lear called the agent for the popular nightclub entertainer Danny Thomas, who would later become a TV star, and got his home phone number by pretending to be a New York Times reporter. Mr. Thomas appreciated the boldness of the ploy. He also liked the routine the two men wrote for him, and purchased it.
Television in its infancy needed material of all kinds, and Mr. Lear and Mr. Simmons soon became writers for Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis, who were among the rotating hosts of "The Colgate Comedy Hour." They went on to write for "The Martha Raye Show" (which Mr. Lear directed as well), after which they went their separate ways. Mr. Lear wrote and produced "The George Gobel Show."
In 1958, Mr. Lear and his fellow writer Bud Yorkin formed Tandem Productions -- so named, they said, because they thought of themselves as not unlike two men going uphill on a tandem bicycle. The company produced the singer Andy Williams's long-running variety show, as well as many television specials and several movies.
Mr. Lear wrote the screenplay for the Tandem film "Come Blow Your Horn" (1963), starring Frank Sinatra, directed by Mr. Yorkin and based on a Neil Simon play. His script for "Divorce, American Style" (1967), starring Dick Van Dyke and Debbie Reynolds and also directed by Mr. Yorkin, was nominated for an Academy Award.
Mr. Lear was one of the writers of "The Night They Raided Minsky's" (1968), a celebration of the glory days of burlesque directed by William Friedkin. And he wrote and directed "Cold Turkey" (1971), also starring Mr. Van Dyke, about a town that quits cigarettes en masse to win a $ 25 million prize. He might have remained a reasonably successful but relatively obscure screenwriter and occasional director had he and Mr., Yorkin not learned about a BBC series called "Till Death Us Do Part."
That show, about an outspoken bigot and his family, was a hit in England. They thought they could adapt it for an American audience.
Mr. Lear wrote a script modeled on "Till Death Us Do Part," and he and Mr. Yorkin shot two pilot episodes for ABC. The network, however, rejected the show, originally titled "Justice for All" (the lead character was originally named Archie Justice), and CBS almost did, too, but Robert D. Wood, the president of CBS Television at the time, had faith in the idea. He fought for it and put the show, by then named "All in the Family," on the air.
A Hot-Button Hit
Some critics embraced the show; many did not. John Leonard, writing in Life magazine under his pen name Cyclops, called it "wretched." Fred Ferretti of The New York Times wrote that its ethnic slurs "shock because one is not used to hearing them shouted from the television tube during prime-time family programs." They "don't make one laugh," he added, "so much as they force self-conscious, semi-amused gasps."
But the public liked it. After being moved from Tuesday to Saturday, it became the top-rated show on television, and while moving in and out of different spots on the schedule, it remained at the top for five consecutive seasons. In March 1972, The Times reported that at 8 p.m. every Saturday, 60 percent of all television sets in America were turned to it, and from 50 million to 60 million viewers were watching -- among them Sammy Davis Jr., who rearranged his performing schedule so that he could watch in his dressing room. Mr. Davis made a memorable guest appearance, as himself, on an episode of the show that year, in which he famously took Archie by surprise by kissing him on the cheek.
Mr. Davis expressed amazement that anyone would be insulted by "All in the Family," but over the years many groups said they were -- and not just ethnic groups. Some older Americans, for instance, took offense to an episode in which two people were married in a nursing home and the bride fell asleep. Mr. Lear agreed not to permit its rebroadcast. It was one of the few occasions when he seemed to find merit in the complaints of his critics.
The debates never really stopped, but the show continued to garner high ratings into the late 1970s. Rob Reiner and Sally Struthers left after the 1977-78 season, and "All in the Family" went off the air in 1979. Mr. O'Connor continued to play Archie on "Archie Bunker's Place," which made its debut that fall in the same time slot, focusing on Archie as the proprietor of a neighborhood bar.
Jean Stapleton appeared on a few episodes of the new show before deciding, as she put it, that if she continued to play Edith Bunker "people will never think of me as anyone else." When the second season began, viewers learned that Edith had died. "Archie Bunker's Place" remained on the air until 1983.
"All in the Family" and its various cast members, writers and directors won 22 Emmy Awards, including three for Mr. Lear. In 1972, when the show won seven, Johnny Carson, that year's host, called the Emmy telecast "the Norman Lear show." Mr. Lear's shows were so successful for so long that Bob Hope once remarked, "We can all be proud of TV and its owner, Norman Lear."
But Mr. Lear also had his share of flops. In 1975, his "Hot L Baltimore," a sitcom set in a run-down hotel and based on a play by Lanford Wilson, lasted 13 weeks on ABC. And after a few more short-lived shows, his hot streak was over by the mid-1980s. Some later projects -- among them "704 Hauser" (1994), about a Black family living in Archie Bunker's former home -- were on the air for only a few weeks; others never got off the ground.
Working Till the End
Mr. Lear nevertheless kept his hand in television. In 2003, he helped write a few episodes of "South Park," the taboo-breaking animated series that was the "All in the Family" of its day. (The show's creators, Matt Stone and Trey Parker, have said that their bile-spewing character Eric Cartman is partly based on Archie Bunker.)
In 2009, Mr. Lear developed a series about professional wrestling for HBO, although it was not picked up. For several years he found no takers for his proposed series about retirees in Southern California, "Guess Who Died?"; that changed in 2017, when NBC committed to produce a pilot, but a year later the network declined to pick up the show.
Still working into his 90s, Mr. Lear was the executive producer of a new version of "One Day at a Time," centered on a Latino family, for Netflix. That series made its debut in 2017, to enthusiastic reviews, and lasted three seasons.
In July 2021, on his 99th birthday, TBS announced that it would develop a reboot of "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman," starring Emily Hampshire, with Mr. Lear as an executive producer. The show has not yet begun production, but at his death Mr. Lear had other projects in the works, including an animated version of "Good Times"; a reboot of "Who's the Boss?"; and a sitcom, starring Laverne Cox and the comedian George Wallace, about a man who learns that his adult son has transitioned.
In May 2019, Mr. Lear and Jimmy Kimmel hosted a TV special on which episodes of "All in the Family" and "The Jeffersons" were recreated live by an all-star cast, including Woody Harrelson as Archie Bunker and Jamie Foxx as George Jefferson. The special was produced by Mr. Lear, Mr. Kimmel and others as part of a deal Mr. Lear had signed with Sony that included an option to reimagine his past shows and potentially produce reboots. A second special, recreating episodes of "All in the Family" and "Good Times," aired that December; a third, recreating episodes of two other series Mr. Lear's company had produced, "The Facts of Life" and "Diff'rent Strokes," was broadcast in 2021.
"Live in Front of a Studio Audience: Norman Lear's 'All in the Family' and 'The Jeffersons"' won an Emmy Award, making Mr. Lear, at 97, the oldest Emmy winner in history. It was his fifth Emmy but his first in 46 years. (The others had all been for "All in the Family.") He broke his own record by winning another Emmy the next year for "Live in Front of a Studio Audience: 'All in the Family' and 'Good Times."'
Honors and Activism
His other honors included lifetime achievement awards from the Producers Guild of America, the Television Critics Association and PEN Center USA. He was among the first inductees in the Television Academy Hall of Fame in 1984, and he won Peabody Awards in 1977 (for "All in the Family") and 2016 (for his life's work). In 1999, President Bill Clinton awarded him a National Medal of Arts.
Mr. Lear was named a recipient of a Kennedy Center Honor in 2017. He attended the ceremony in Washington but skipped the reception at the White House, citing his unhappiness with the policies of the Trump administration.
"This is a presidency that has chosen to neglect totally the arts and humanities -- deliberately defund them -- and that doesn't rest pleasantly with me," he said in an interview with The Times.
Mr. Lear turned his attention back to movies in 1982, when he, Mr. Yorkin and Jerry Perenchio bought Avco Embassy Pictures. The newly renamed Embassy Communications released films, including Ingmar Bergman's "Fanny and Alexander" (1982) and the acclaimed mock documentary "This Is Spinal Tap" (1984), directed by the "All in the Family" alumnus Rob Reiner.
In 1985, after Mr. Lear acquired Mr. Yorkin's share, he and Mr. Perenchio sold Embassy and Tandem to the Coca-Cola Company for $ 485 million. That same year, Mr. Lear founded Act III Communications, named to signify the third act of his life. Act III's most notable productions were two other Rob Reiner films, "Stand by Me" (1986) and "The Princess Bride" (1987).
Mr. Lear entered the music business in 1999, when he and a partner acquired the Concord Music Group. (The company merged with Village Roadshow Entertainment Group in 2008 and was sold to Wood Creek Capital Management in 2013.)
Mr. Lear never made a secret of his liberal leanings, but he became increasingly active politically with the founding of People for the American Way in 1980 as a response to the Moral Majority and other voices on the right. The organization's efforts have included opposing a constitutional amendment barring desecration of the American flag, joining lawsuits on behalf of abortion rights and publishing the book "Hostile Climate: Report on Anti-Gay Activity."
In 1985, after almost 30 years of marriage, Mr. Lear and his second wife, Frances, reached a divorce settlement estimated at $ 100 million or more, money she used to found Lear's magazine. (The magazine went out of business after six years.) He later married Lyn Davis, a psychologist, who survives him.
He is also survived by their son, Benjamin; their daughters, Brianna and Madeline Lear; a daughter from his first marriage, Ellen Lear; two daughters from his second marriage, Kate and Maggie Lear; and four grandchildren.
Frances Lear died in 1996.
Mr. Lear's resources remained formidable even after his divorce, and he continued to give both money and time to numerous causes.
In 1989, he founded the Business Enterprise Trust to promote socially responsible business behavior and was among the founders of the Environmental Media Association, which encourages entertainment industry efforts to educate people about environmental issues. In 2003, he founded Declare Yourself, a nonprofit organization to motivate people between the ages of 18 and 29 to register to vote.
His $ 5 million pledge to the University of Southern California in the 1999-2000 academic year helped establish the Norman Lear Center at the university's Annenberg School for Communication, which offers a multidisciplinary program for the study of entertainment as a central component of 21st-century life.
In 2014, he published his autobiography, "Even This I Get to Experience." In the process of writing it, he told The New York Times, "I began to realize how hard it had been to be a human being."
He was also the subject of a documentary, "Norman Lear: Just Another Version of You," released in 2016.
On July 27, 2022, the day he turned 100, The Times published a guest essay by Mr. Lear in which he reflected on the state of the nation and observed, "To be honest, I'm a bit worried that I may be in better shape than our democracy is."
For all his political activism, Mr. Lear knew that he would be best remembered for his work in television. Interviewed by The Los Angeles Times in 2009, he offered a measured assessment of the impact shows like "All in the Family" had on society.
"I can't honestly say I can see anywhere where we changed anything," he said. "But what I have are thousands of memories of people relating to me that we made them talk. And you know, the funny thing is, people are still talking."
Richard Severo, a Times reporter from 1968 to 2006, died in June. Alex Traub contributed reporting.
Norman Lear in 2014. He brought sitcoms into the real world with "The Jeffersons" and "Maude." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW RENNEISEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Norman Lear in 1979, above, and in 1967, near left, with, from far left front, Dick Van Dyke, Bud Yorkin and Jason Robards on the set of "Divorce, American Style." His script was nominated for an Oscar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS; EVERETT COLLECTION); "SANFORD AND SON" Redd Foxx, left, as the cranky Fred Sanford who often didn't see eye to eye with Demond Wilson's Lamont Sanford, right. It ran from 1972 to 1977. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NBC TELEVISION); "MAUDE" Bea Arthur, left, was Edith Bunker's cousin Maude, an outspoken feminist; Esther Rolle, right, was her maid in the first two seasons. It ran from 1972 to 1978. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA EVERETT COLLECTION) (A24) This article appeared in print on page A1, A24.

Subject: Daughters; Television programs; Comedies; Deaths

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Lear, Norman

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/06/arts/television/norman-lear-dead.html

Title: Norman Lear, 101, Who Gave America Sitcom Gold, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New Yo rk Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2899044144

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norman-lear-101-who- gave-america-sitcom-gold-dies/docview/2899044144/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Norman Lear, Whose Comedies Changed the Face of TV, Is Dead at 101

Author: Severo, Richard; Keepnews, Peter

Publication info: Severo, Richard; Keepnews, Peter. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norman-lear-whose-comedies-changed-face-tv-is/docview/2898708952/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Norman Lear, the television writer and producer who introduced political and social commentary into situation comedy with “All in the Family” and other shows, proving that it was possible to be topical as well as funny while attracting millions of viewers, died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 101.
A spokesperson for the family, Lara Bergthold, confirmed the death.
Lear reigned at the top of the television world through the 1970s and into the early ’80s, leaving a lasting mark with shows that brought the sitcom into the real world.
“The Jeffersons” looked at the struggles faced by an upwardly mobile Black family; a very different Black family on “Good Times” dealt with poverty and discrimination. The protagonist of “Maude” was an outspoken feminist; the heroine of “Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman” was plagued by all manner of modern-day problems, not least her own neurosis.
“You looked around television in those years,” Lear said in a 2012 New York Times interview, referring to the middle and late 1960s, “and the biggest problem any family faced was ‘Mother dented the car, and how do you keep Dad from finding out’; ‘the boss is coming to dinner, and the roast’s ruined.’ The message that was sending out was that we didn’t have any problems.”
Lear’s shows sent different messages, far more in tune with what was actually happening in those turbulent times. His crowning achievement was “All in the Family,” and his greatest creation was Archie Bunker, the focus of that show and one of the most enduring characters in television history.
An unapologetic bigot who was seemingly always angry at one minority group or another (and usually at least one family member as well), Archie, memorably portrayed by Carroll O’Connor, was also, with his malaprops, his mangled syntax and his misguided enthusiasm, strangely likable.
“All in the Family” sent a shock through the sleepy world of the sitcom with one tart, topical episode after another from the moment it premiered on CBS, on Jan. 12, 1971.
Even now, more than 50 years later, there are critics who say that this date should live in infamy, that ABC was right when it turned down the show out of fear that it would offend too many people.
But Lear, who adapted “All in the Family” from a British sitcom and based Archie in part on his own father, saw it differently. “I’ve never known a bigot who didn’t have something endearing,” he once said.
Archie had choice words for all races, creeds and sexual orientations (except his own), and he didn’t spare his family. His sweet and dignified wife, Edith (Jean Stapleton), was a “dingbat”; his daughter, Gloria (Sally Struthers), was “a weepin’ Nellie”; his liberal son-in-law, Michael Stivic (Rob Reiner), was a “meathead.”
“All in the Family” ran until 1979 and dominated the ratings for most of that time. More important, it established a template for television comedy by mixing political and social messages, as well as moments of serious drama, with the laughter.
The Lear philosophy was further developed in two shows built around characters who originally appeared on “All in the Family”: “Maude” and “The Jeffersons.”
“Maude,” which ran from 1972 to 1978 on CBS, centered on Edith Bunker’s cousin Maude Findlay (Bea Arthur), who was as much a doctrinaire liberal as Archie was a determined denizen of the far, far right.
George Jefferson (Sherman Hemsley), the central character of “The Jeffersons,” was a Black man who ran a successful dry-cleaning business in Archie’s neighborhood and whose disdain for white people rivaled Archie’s for Black people. “The Jeffersons,” the story of George’s life with his newly moneyed family after they moved to the East Side of Manhattan, ran on CBS from 1975 to 1985.
Not all of Lear’s shows grew out of Archie’s universe. One that did not, “Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman,” raised as many eyebrows as “All in the Family.”
A five-episodes-a-week spoof of soap operas, “Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman” was the story of a television-obsessed housewife (Louise Lasser) who had more than her share of calamity: Her grandfather was a flasher, her mother was a flake, her husband was cheating on her, their daughter was kidnapped, and Mary herself had a breakdown on live TV.
“Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman” was too hot for the networks. Lear syndicated it himself, and in most markets it was on after the late news.
The show made its debut in 1976, Lasser left the next year, and it was gone by early 1978.
Other Lear shows had longer lives. “Sanford and Son,” starring the longtime Black comedian Redd Foxx as an irascible junk dealer — and, like “All in the Family,” based on a successful British sitcom — ran on NBC from 1972 to 1977. “One Day at a Time” (CBS, 1975-84) concerned a divorced woman (Bonnie Franklin) living on her own with two teenage daughters. “Good Times” (CBS, 1974-79), a spinoff of “Maude,” was the story of a hardworking Black woman (Esther Rolle) struggling to raise a family in a Chicago housing project.
Norman Milton Lear was born on July 27, 1922, in New Haven, Connecticut, to Herman and Jeanette (Seicol) Lear. His father was a salesman of various products who was not very good at selling much of anything, who sometimes ran afoul of the law, and who had, his son later recalled, more than a hint of Archie in him. He would tell his wife to “stifle” herself just as Archie would with Edith, and more than once he told Norman, “You are the laziest white kid I ever saw.”
Raised mostly in Hartford, Norman graduated from Weaver High School there in 1940 and attended Emerson College in Boston, but left shortly after the United States entered World War II to enlist in the Army Air Forces. He rose to technical sergeant and flew 52 missions as a radioman. He received the Air Medal with four oak-leaf clusters.
After the war, Lear got a job with the publicity firm of George and Dorothy Ross, who had many clients in the theater.
He found a way to put his imagination to better use after he and his first wife, Charlotte, moved to Los Angeles in 1949. For a while he and a friend, Ed Simmons, worked as door-to-door salesmen. Eventually they started to write comedy routines together.
Their break came when Lear called the agent for the popular nightclub entertainer Danny Thomas, who would later become a TV star, and got his home phone number by pretending to be a New York Times reporter. Thomas appreciated the boldness of the ploy. He also liked the routine the two men wrote for him, and purchased it.
Lear and Simmons soon became writers for Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis, who were among the rotating hosts of “The Colgate Comedy Hour.” They went on to write for “The Martha Raye Show” (which Lear directed as well), after which they went their separate ways. Lear wrote and produced “The George Gobel Show.”
In 1958, Lear and his fellow writer Bud Yorkin formed Tandem Productions. The company produced the singer Andy Williams’ long-running variety show, as well as many television specials and several movies.
Lear might have remained a reasonably successful but relatively obscure screenwriter and occasional director had he and Yorkin not learned about a BBC series called “Till Death Us Do Part.”
That show, about an outspoken bigot and his family, was a hit in England. Lear and Yorkin thought they could adapt it for an American audience.
Lear wrote a script modeled on “Till Death Us Do Part,” and he and Yorkin shot two pilot episodes for ABC, which rejected the show. CBS almost did, too, but Robert D. Wood, the president of CBS Television at the time, had faith in the idea, fought for it and put the show, named “All in the Family,” on the air.
“All in the Family” and its various cast members, writers and directors won 22 Emmy Awards, including three for Lear. In 1972, when the show won seven, Johnny Carson, that year’s host, called the Emmy telecast “the Norman Lear show.” Lear’s shows were so successful for so long that Bob Hope once remarked, “We can all be proud of TV and its owner, Norman Lear.”
But Lear also had his share of flops. In 1975, his “Hot L Baltimore,” a sitcom set in a run-down hotel and based on a play by Lanford Wilson, lasted 13 weeks on ABC. And after a few more short-lived shows, his hot streak was over by the mid-1980s. Some later projects were on the air for only a few weeks; others never got off the ground.
He nevertheless kept his hand in television. In 2003, he helped write a few episodes of “South Park,” the taboo-breaking animated series that was the “All in the Family” of its day. (The show’s creators, Matt Stone and Trey Parker, have said that their bile-spewing character Eric Cartman is partly based on Archie Bunker.)
Still working into his 90s, Lear was the executive producer of a new version of “One Day at a Time,” centered on a Latino family, for Netflix. That series made its debut in 2017, to enthusiastic reviews, and lasted three seasons.
In May 2019, Lear and Jimmy Kimmel hosted a TV special on which episodes of “All in the Family” and “The Jeffersons” were re-created live by an all-star cast, including Woody Harrelson as Archie Bunker and Jamie Foxx as George Jefferson. A second special, re-creating episodes of “All in the Family” and “Good Times,” aired that December; a third, re-creating episodes of two other series Lear’s company had produced, “The Facts of Life” and “Diff’rent Strokes,” was broadcast in 2021.
“Live in Front of a Studio Audience: Norman Lear’s ‘All in the Family’ and ‘The Jeffersons’” won an Emmy Award, making Lear, at 97, the oldest Emmy winner in history. It was his fifth Emmy but his first in 46 years. (The others had all been for “All in the Family.”) He broke his own record by winning another Emmy the next year for “Live in Front of a Studio Audience: ‘All in the Family’ and ‘Good Times.’”
His other honors included lifetime achievement awards from the Producers Guild of America, the Television Critics Association and PEN Center USA. He was among the first inductees in the Television Academy Hall of Fame in 1984, and he won Peabody Awards in 1977 (for “All in the Family”) and 2016 (for his life’s work). In 1999, President Bill Clinton awarded him a National Medal of Arts.
In 1985, after almost 30 years of marriage, Lear and his second wife, Frances, reached a divorce settlement estimated at $100 million or more. He later married Lyn Davis, a psychologist, who survives him. Lear is also survived by their son, Benjamin; their daughters, Brianna and Madeline Lear; a daughter from his first marriage, Ellen Lear; two daughters from his second marriage, Kate and Maggie Lear; and four grandchildren.
Frances Lear died in 1996.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Daughters; Television programs; Writers; Comedies; Deaths; Decades

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Lear, Norman

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Carson, Johnny; Williams, Andy (1927 2012); Cbs Corporation; Race And Ethnicity; People For The American Way; Emerson College (Boston, Mass); New York Times; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Deaths (Obituaries); Netflix Inc; Lewis, Jerry; World War Ii (1939 45); Minorities; Great Britain; Kennedy, John F, Center For The Performing Arts; United States; Life (Magazine); Kimmel, Jimmy; Abc Inc; Elections; Leonard, John; Liberalism (Us Politics); Pen International; Emmy Awards; Baltimore (Md); Clinton, Bill; Hartford (Conn); England; Wilson, Lanford; Lasser, Louise; Connecticut; Discrimination; Arthur, Bea; United States Politics And Government; Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Foxx, Redd (1922 91); Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; Law And Legislation; Black People; News And News Media; Writing And Writers; Harrelson, Woody; Weaver High School; New Haven (Conn); Martin, Dean; Rolle, Esther; Marriages; Education (K 12); Hope, Bob; Kennedy Center Honors; Stone, Matt; Producers Guild Of America; Yorkin, Bud (1926 2015); Academy Of Television Arts And Sci ences; Newspapers; Severo, Richard; Television Critics Assn; Television; National Broadcasting Co; Trump, Donald J; British Broadcasting Corp; Lear, Norman; Variety; Web Original Programming; Compensation For Damages (Law); Parker, Trey; Usa Network; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Chicago (Ill); Kidnapping And Hostages; #Metoo Movement; Appointments And Executive Changes; Books And Literature

Title: Norman Lear, Whose Comedies Changed the Face of TV, Is Dead at 101

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-06T22:25:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2898708952

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norman-lear-whose-comedies-changed-face-tv-is/docview/2898708952/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Peter Tarnoff, 86, U.S. Diplomat With Part in 'Argo' Escape, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Risen, Clay

Publication info: Risen, Clay. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/peter-tarnoff-86-u-s-diplomat-with-part-argo/docview/2892448611/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A consummate man behind the scenes, he held top posts under Carter and Clinton, and in between ran the Council on Foreign Relations.
Peter Tarnoff, a seasoned diplomat whose work behind the scenes for presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton included establishing a secret channel to Fidel Castro and helping arrange the escape of six U.S. Embassy officials from Iran, an escapade later depicted in the 2012 movie "Argo," died on Nov. 1 at his home in San Francisco. He was 86.
His wife, Mathea Falco, said the cause of death was complications of Parkinson's disease.
Mr. Tarnoff was part of a cohort of Foreign Service officers who, inspired by the words of President John F. Kennedy, joined the American diplomatic corps in the early 1960s.
Many of them cut their teeth on assignment in South Vietnam, and several -- among them Mr. Tarnoff, Anthony Lake, Frank Wisner II and Richard Holbrooke -- went on to play leading roles in the U.S. foreign policy establishment.
But while outsize personalities like Mr. Holbrooke, a frequent contender for secretary of state, and Mr. Lake, a national security adviser under Bill Clinton, became famous, Mr. Tarnoff preferred to wield his influence out of the public eye.
"Peter was really the quintessential diplomat in the sense that he never asked for the spotlight," Wendy Sherman, who served alongside him in the Clinton administration, said in a phone interview. "He never needed to be the named person. He just got the job done."
From early on in his career, Mr. Tarnoff developed a reputation as the consummate confidential assistant, guiding high-profile diplomats through high-profile negotiations.
In South Vietnam he became a close adviser to Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., the U.S. ambassador in Saigon, a job in which he continued in 1969, when Mr. Lodge led the U.S. delegation to the Paris peace talks to end the Vietnam War.
Mr. Tarnoff performed a similar service nearly a decade later as the special assistant to Cyrus Vance, the secretary of state under Jimmy Carter, and to Edmund Muskie, Mr. Vance's successor.
In that role he both protected his principals from bureaucratic infighting -- Mr. Vance and Zbigniew Brzezinski, the national security adviser, were locked in open warfare for much of the Carter administration -- and carried out assignments too sensitive to run through conventional channels.
He established a secret relationship with Ricardo Alarcón, a top Cuban diplomat based in New York. Over cigars at the Plaza Hotel, and later in a secret meeting in Havana with Fidel Castro, they hashed out a deal to end the exodus of thousands of asylum seekers to Florida, known as the Mariel boatlift.
He played an even more confidential part during the 1979 Iran hostage crisis, when revolutionaries detained most of the personnel at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. Six had escaped to the Canadian Embassy, and Mr. Tarnoff served as the liaison between the Canadian government and the Central Intelligence Agency, which had a plan to extract them.
Posing as a Canadian film crew scouting locations for a science fiction film called "Argo," the six staff members, joined by two C.I.A. operatives, managed to get through Iranian passport control and onto a flight to Zurich.
Mr. Tarnoff never confirmed his role in what came to be known as the Canadian Caper, nor did he see the Oscar-winning film made about it. But State Department documents show that he played an integral part.
He spent much of the 1980s in the private sector, including a stint as president of the Council on Foreign Relations, the American think tank specializing in U.S. foreign policy and international relations founded in 1921. But he returned to the State Department in 1993 as the under secretary for political affairs, essentially the No. 3 spot.
A few months into the job, he set off a minor scandal when, speaking anonymously to a group of journalists, he said that the United States might need to pull back its commitments overseas in the face of budget deficits and the end of the Cold War.
The New York Times, which did not have a reporter in the room, soon unmasked Mr. Tarnoff, and for a moment it looked as though he might lose his job.
But he was too valuable to lose. He reprised his role as secret go-between to the Cuban government, and again worked with Mr. Alarcón, this time on a deal to end the United States's open door policy to Cuban asylum seekers.
"Peter always had this fabulous knack of understanding what a principal needed, and how to manage and put together ideas for solutions to problems and run interference, and to do so with complete discretion," Mr. Wisner, who served as under secretary of defense for policy under President Clinton, said in a phone interview.
Peter Tarnoff was born on April 19, 1937, in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn until he was 12, when his family moved to Montreal. His father, Norman, was an executive at Macy's, and his mother, Henrietta (Goldfarb) Tarnoff, was a homemaker.
He graduated from Colgate in 1958 with a degree in philosophy, a subject he continued to pursue at the Committee on Social Thought, a doctoral program at the University of Chicago. But his interest in global affairs pulled him away from academia, and he joined the Foreign Service in 1962.
Mr. Tarnoff's first marriage, to Danielle Oudinot, ended in divorce. He married Ms. Falco in 1982. Along with her, he is survived by a son from his first marriage, Alexander; a son from his second, Benjamin; his half brother, John Tarnoff; and three grandchildren. Another son with Ms. Oudinot, Nicholas, died in 1991.
After an initial posting to Lagos, Nigeria, Mr. Tarnoff moved to Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh City), the capital of South Vietnam. In 1965 he was seriously wounded by flying glass when a car bomb detonated beside the U.S. Embassy, killing two inside and 20 on the street.
During the 1970s he held a variety of posts around Europe before moving to Washington in 1975.
After Ronald Reagan defeated Mr. Carter in the 1980 presidential election, tradition dictated that the incoming administration would take care of Mr. Tarnoff, who was both a nonpolitical Foreign Service officer and a confidante of one of the previous administration's leading Cabinet members.
But in a shocking breach, Alexander M. Haig Jr., the new secretary of state, pushed Mr. Tarnoff aside, ostensibly because his work in Cuba had left him politically tainted. He took a yearlong fellowship at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, then resigned from the Foreign Service in 1982.
He served as president of the World Affairs Council of Northern California, based in San Francisco, for three years, then assumed the leadership of the Council on Foreign Relations from 1985 to 1993, when he joined the State Department at the behest of his fellow Californian, Warren M. Christopher, who had just been named secretary of state.
Mr. Tarnoff left the State Department in 1997 and returned to San Francisco. Not long before leaving, he received the Distinguished Service Award, the department's highest honor.
Photograph Mr. Tarnoff briefing White House reporters during the Clinton administration, while the attorney general, Janet Reno, listened nearby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALLY MCNAMEE/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Under Secretary of Defense Walter Slocombe, Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff and Lt. Gen. Wesley Clark of the Joint Chiefs of Staff before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1995. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: American history; Councils; National security; International relations; Diplomatic & consular services; Presidents; Scandals; Congressional committees; Foreign policy; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: International relations

Location: New York; United States--US; South Vietnam; Vietnam; Iran; San Francisco California

People: Castro, Fidel; Carter, Jimmy; Clinton, Bill

Company / organization: Nam e: Council on Foreign Relations; NAICS: 541720, 813910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/21/world/americas/peter-tarnoff-dead.html

Title: Peter Tarnoff, 86, U.S. Diplomat With Part in 'Argo' Escape, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 23, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2892448611

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/peter-tarnoff-86-u-s-diplomat-with-part-argo/docview/2892448611/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

George Tscherny, 99, Whose Graphic Work Defined an Era, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Risen, Clay

Publication info: Risen, Clay. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-tscherny-99-whose-graphic-work-defined-era/docview/2891090916/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With a bevy of corporate and institutional clients, he helped shape the visual language of the postwar American economy.
George Tscherny, a leading figure in postwar graphic design whose work unified the crisp, clean lines of European modern art with an American commercial pop sensibility, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99.
His daughter Carla Tscherny confirmed the death.
Mr. Tscherny (pronounced CHAIR-nee) started his career in the early 1950s, near the beginning of an extended golden era of American consumerism and corporate growth -- a period that demanded new types of advertising.
Many of the designers who crafted the signature images of the era were European immigrants, often refugees like Mr. Tscherny, who brought a familiarity with the latest in modern art and design. Their work graced advertising campaigns, produced on Madison Avenue, that pushed cigarettes and toothpaste and jet travel into American homes.
After apprenticing in Manhattan design studios for five years, Mr. Tscherny opened his own practice in 1955. He soon had a client list that read like a Who's Who of postwar corporate America. American Can, Colgate Palmolive, Pan Am and RCA all hired his office to design advertising, logos and annual reports.
His work differed from that of the many graphic designers who gravitated to the so-called Swiss style, an austere, stripped-down aesthetic heavy on grids, clean lines and abstraction. He brought in humor and humanity: For an ad for Overseas National Airways promoting winter travel, he arranged silhouettes of airliners to resemble a snowflake.
"He did not follow a set condition of rules," Steven Heller, a former art director for The New York Times who now teaches at the School of Visual Arts in New York, said in a phone interview. "There was always a jolly wit to his work."
Mr. Tscherny once described his design approach as "maximum meaning with minimum means"; he also called it "the human element implied." One famous poster, for the furniture designer Herman Miller, featured a cowboy hat sitting on one of the company's signature chairs and the text "Herman Miller Comes to Dallas."
"I see myself as a bridge between commerce and art," Mr. Tscherny said in an interview for the Art Directors Club in 1997, when the club inducted him into its Hall of Fame. "For just as copy can be literature, design can be art when it reaches certain levels of originality and distinction."
George Tscherny was born on July 12, 1924, in Budapest. His father, Mendel, was a Russian soldier during World War I who was captured by Austro-Hungarian forces and imprisoned in Hungary; when the war ended, he stayed.
George's mother, Bella Tscherny, a Hungarian Jew, worked as a seamstress.
The family had very little money, and when George was 2 they moved to Berlin to escape antisemitism and to be close to some of his mother's relatives, who helped support them.
He recognized from an early age the way that high art and commercial art overlapped, blended together and even nestled inside each other. There was perhaps no better place for that education than Weimar-era Berlin.
"Growing up in a poor, working-class household, I had to find art and culture outside the home," he said in a 2014 interview with Print magazine. "Modern architecture, which began to appear on the streets of Berlin around 1930, captured my interest on walks through the city."
The family came under pressure to flee Germany as the Nazis took power in the 1930s. In 1938, a day after the Kristallnacht pogrom, George and his brother, Alex, boarded a train to the Netherlands, where they lived in a home for refugee children.
Their parents emigrated to New Jersey, but it would be three more years before their children followed them there.
Mr. Tscherny joined the U.S. Army during World War II. He served in France, as a translator, and later in occupied Germany. After he was discharged in 1946, he studied for a time at an art school in Newark and then transferred to Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.
He married Sonia Katz in 1950. She died in 2020. Along with his daughter Carla, he is survived by three grandchildren. His brother, Alex, died in 2020. Another daughter, Nadia, died in 2019.
With only a few credits to go before graduating, Mr. Tscherny left Pratt in 1950 to work for Donald Deskey, a renowned industrial designer. In 1953, he moved to the office of George Nelson, where he worked primarily for one of Mr. Nelson's biggest clients, Herman Miller.
He left in 1955 to start his own firm. That same year he answered a want ad for a design teacher at what was then known as the Cartoonists and Illustrators School and is now the School of Visual Arts, in Manhattan.
Although Mr. Tscherny taught there for only eight years, he left an indelible legacy at what would become one of the country's leading schools for aspiring art directors. He created its graphic design program, and he later joined other artists in creating a famous series of ads promoting it in New York's subways.
In 1996, he unveiled the school's familiar squiggly-flower logo, which it still uses. It was classic Tscherny -- positioned next to the school's name, written in what he called the "icy perfection" of the elegantly formal Bodoni typeface, the scrawled image signals the "human element" behind all design.
"It reflects what S.V.A. has become: an art school with a broad range of offerings, from technology-based programs to painterly pursuits," Mr. Tscherny said. "I think the logo avoids the 'hard edge' sameness of the usual corporate trademark."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Photograph George Tscherny in 1960. With his corporate and institutional clients, he helped shape the visual language of the postwar American economy.; Mr. Tscherny's ad for the Herman Miller furniture company when it opened a store in Dallas. He started his career in the 1950s. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA TSCHERNY FAMILY); Posters designed by Mr. Tscherny. He once described his design approach as "maximum meaning with minimum means." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TSCHERNY FAMILY; GEORGE TSCHERNY, VIA SVA ARCHIVES) This article appeared in print on page B12.

Subject: Design; Graphic arts; Logos; Annual reports; Advertising; Designers; Visual arts; Modern art; Corporate growth; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Annual reports Advertising Designers Corporate growth

Location: New York; United States--US; Germany

Company / organization: Name: School of Visual Arts; NAICS: 611610

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/17/arts/design/george-tscherny-dead.html

Title: George Tscherny, 99, Whose Graphic Work Defined an Era, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2891090916

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-tscherny-99-whose-graphic-work-defined-era/docview/2891090916/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Village Gets Its Treasures Back. Maybe More.: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom

Publication info: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/village-gets-treasures-back-maybe-more/docview/2884030121/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Investigators say they have figured out how bronze statues from a shrine built 2,000 years ago in Asia Minor to venerate the emperors of Rome ended up in museums around the world.
One towering ancient bronze was found last year in the Sutton Place apartment of a notable New York philanthropist. Another this year in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A third bronze, the head of a young Roman boy, was seized from Fordham University in March.
Each of these ancient artifacts, and a half dozen more like them, are believed to have once graced an elaborate shrine in a region that is now part of Turkey. Erected by locals to honor the Roman Empire at a time when it ruled that part of the world, the shrine in the ancient city of Bubon featured a pantheon of emperors, experts say.
So Lucius Verus, it's thought, stood next to Marcus Aurelius, his adoptive brother with whom he ruled. The statue of Septimius Severus was beside those of his wife and children. The emperors Valerian and Commodus once stood on their own plinths nearby.
But just decades ago, according to investigators from the Turkish government and the Manhattan District Attorney's Office, this set of rare, larger-than-life bronzes came to be scattered around the world. Individual statues ended up in a variety of affluent homes and prestigious museums.
Now, relying on newly discovered records and interviews with regretful, at times tearful, farmers now in their 70s, the investigators say they have been able to reconstruct what happened. They say men from a nearby village found the bronzes buried on a hillside, beginning in the late 1950s and, acting in tandem over a period of years, dug up the statues, often working in large groups to facilitate their excavation. Many were then sold to an antiquities dealer they knew as "American Bob."
His real name, investigators say, was Robert Hecht and he would become famous -- and later infamous -- as one of the world's great dealers of antiquities, both looted and unlooted. Although it had been illegal under Turkish law since 1906 to sell antiquities without official permission, Hecht and others brought the bronzes to market, the investigators say.
Authorities now have begun to seize the bronzes, one by one. Two have already been returned to Turkey. Three more have been seized, and are yet to be sent back. Another four are being sought, according to the district attorney's Antiquities Trafficking Unit.
Some experts, and at least one museum that holds a statue being sought, have questioned whether the evidence placing these particular artifacts in Bubon is as strong as the authorities have suggested. But Matthew Bogdanos, who leads the unit, said he is undeterred.
"Everybody fights Bubon," he said of the naysayers. "But if there were ever a case we wanted to get into a courtroom, Bubon is it."
The story of the Bubon bronzes, though, is more than just a tale of looters' remorse, investigative zeal, art market intrigue and antiquities repatriation. It's also a lesson in history, one that presents a more nuanced view of ancient Rome than that popularized by Hollywood epics. Those films often depicted an empire that relied almost exclusively on the spear, the whip and the executioner's sword to keep the conquered in line. The truth was more complicated.
Some of the men who rose to lead Rome were, in fact, born in conquered lands. Severus was from modern-day Libya; the emperor Trajan from modern-day Spain. Rome allowed a measure of self-government and promoted the promise of citizenship as potent tools to keep the peace. And there was often local buy-in, evident in the shrines built by invaded peoples to show respect for their conquerors.
Known as shrines to the "imperial cult," only a handful of them survive today in any form. One is the excavation at Bubon, according to archaeologists. From the time of Augustus, Roman emperors were venerated as gods, sometimes alongside the deities themselves. The shrine at Bubon, in what was then known as Asia Minor, is believed to have been built by local gentry as a sign of fealty to Rome. Started around A.D. 50, it is thought to have been in use for perhaps two centuries before it was buried in earthquakes.
The calamity, fortuitously, protected the bronze statuary at a time when discarded metal was routinely recycled into armaments. The Bubon bronzes, instead, remained underground, intact, for almost 2,000 years.
Until the farmers found them.
Asia Minor Under the Empire
Though life under Roman rule would ultimately prove prosperous and pleasant for many of the people of Bubon, it took time and bloodshed.
Before the Roman conquest, parts of Asia Minor, also known as Anatolia, had embraced the Greek language and way of life and the region was largely under the dominion of Greek rulers for two centuries, starting with Alexander the Great in 330 B.C. But when Rome, after much warfare, ultimately took power in the first century B.C., the empire used its well-honed tactics to convert the region into a stable and passive province.
The Romans built paved roads and large public amenities like baths and markets. They integrated Roman tradesmen, soldiers and administrators into local life, and dangled the possibility of Roman citizenship, which conferred political rights on people from conquered lands.
"For much of Anatolia, the Roman Imperial period was the high point of classical antiquity," said Peter Talloen, an archaeology professor from the University of Leuven in Belgium who is excavating in the region. "The vast road network built and maintained by Rome," he added, "would result in Anatolian goods such as textile, pottery, wine and olive oil being profitably exported to all different areas of the Roman Empire."
Bubon itself was a small and relatively wealthy agrarian hilltop community that, under Rome, featured central markets, a theater, low battlements and a small stadium for athletic contests. Its residents, perhaps a few thousand people, archaeologists estimate, would likely have enjoyed self-governance so long as they showed loyalty and paid tribute to the Roman prefect in charge of their province.
Amid the ruins of the theater, there is an inscription relating how the emperor Commodus (A.D. 177-192) commended the city for crushing a band of brigands. Bubon, as a result, the inscription reports, was rewarded with an extra vote at the provincial assembly.
Many monuments would have been erected, Talloen said, some to the local elites who financed the public buildings and activities like religious festivals, others to the Roman officials who authorized the local leaders to tax things like the ownership of land or the sale of produce.
The shrine, or sebasteion (suh-BASS-tay-ohn), at Bubon was one such monument, built to proclaim the populace's devotion to Rome. Sakir Demirok, an archaeologist with the Burdur Museum in Turkey, said the shrine, a U-shaped courtyard that was probably covered, would have likely been a site for animal sacrifices, incense burning, and communal prayers and vows, led by a local priest.
Romans were keenly religious and worshiped multiple mythological deities, like Jupiter or Juno, whose favor or disfavor were thought to influence daily life.
"Rome was the safeguard of the peace and welfare," Demirok said. "It was a system that provisioned grain for the citizens' good and secured the trade routes. Cities were expected to demonstrate their gratitude for the stability provided by that system."
The Bubon shrine was begun, experts think, during the reign of Nero, between A.D. 54 and 68, and initially featured statues of the emperor and his wife Poppaea Sabina. Nero was popular in the Greek-speaking provinces because he embraced Greek culture and song. During its life span, at least 14 individuals were represented by statues -- 11 emperors and three empresses -- Demirok said, the last being Gallienus, who ruled from A.D. 260 to 268. As rulers were unseated, their statues were sometimes replaced, so Nero's, for example, was removed and his name erased from the statue's plinth, which later was used for Marcus Aurelius, experts said.
Experts credit the survival of the bronzes to a series of earthquakes that occurred in the decades after Gallienus was enshrined, burying the sebasteion in protective layers of soil and stone as the Roman Empire began its long decline.
The restitution of the statues now, as a group, serves to highlight, experts said, the central role they played in binding the people of a remote province like Bubon, spiritually and politically, to their counterparts in far-off Rome.
"They want to show their allegiance to Rome," said Christina Kokkinia, an expert at the National Hellenic Research Foundation in Greece who has visited and written about Bubon. "They were proud to be Roman."
Some Finds in the Fields
The looting of Bubon indeed took a village, investigators say.
The farmers from Ibecik, a small community a mile and a half from the shrine site, told interviewers that they had known about the ancient ruins for years before they began digging up the bronzes sometime in the late 1950s or early 1960s. As young men, they said, their teachers had led them up to a deep hole in the stony hillside that some came to call the "Museum." One villager recalled some of the bronzes were piled up there, like logs in a fireplace, investigators said.
At first, just a few villagers were involved in selling off artifacts to local smugglers. But soon the local farmers joined in groups of 20 to 30 -- sometimes cooperating, sometimes competing -- to excavate and carry away the heavy, large bronzes, now filled with several centuries of settled dirt. Some statues were broken into pieces to make them easier to transport, the farmers recalled. Investigators say pickax marks are still visible on the bronze of Lucius Verus.
When the money came in, many of the families shared in the proceeds.
"It was seen as the property of the village," said Zeynep Boz, a Turkish official responsible for the return of her country's antiquities.
The illegal excavations ebbed after 1967 when the Turkish police found a headless bronze torso hidden in the local woods. That statue of Valerian, who ruled from A.D. 253 until his capture in battle with the Persians in A.D. 260, now stands in a museum in the nearby town of Burdur.
But other bronzes, investigators say, had already entered the art market. Villagers recently recalled for investigators how a pair of local smugglers ferried the artifacts in a pickup truck to the port town of Izmir, about four hours away. There, in the souk, or bazaar, some were sold to a dealer they called American Bob. Investigators say that, based on the evidence they have collected, the dealer was Hecht.
The evidence includes shipping and sales invoices that show Hecht in possession of remarkable 2,000-year-old Roman bronzes that had never been seen before. In the late 1960s, he sold five -- four torsos and a head -- to a Boston collector called Charles Lipson, who exhibited them at several museums before consigning them to a New York gallery, from which they were resold. Investigators say Hecht sold other bronzes to a second gallery in New York.
At the time, the paper trail did not identify where the bronzes had come from and some of the statues had yet to carry the names of emperors. The bronze that was later identified as a depiction of Marcus Aurelius was just referred to as a large-scale Roman bronze in a 1974 museum exhibition, and there was a debate about where it and others had originated.
But a Turkish archaeologist, Jale Inan, came to be convinced they had all come from Bubon, which she visited in 1973, drawn by reports of the looting. In 1979, she traveled to Denmark, where a museum owned a bronze head that had been purchased from Hecht. She and a curator at the Danish museum agreed that it was likely a match for a headless torso in the United States that Lipson had owned and identified as that of Septimius Severus.
In 1990, Inan returned to the hillside in Bubon to dig at the site. She spoke to local farmers who acknowledged they had taken part in illicit digging. She found a journal in which one of the looters had reconstructed what had occurred 30 years earlier. Through interviews and excavation, she plotted the positions of the statues using the stone bases that remained, the names of the emperors still inscribed on them in Greek.
In a paper and in a 1994 book, she cataloged her research, including sketches that showed how she thought some of the statues, now held by various parties around the world, would have fit onto the plinths at Bubon. She died in 2001, before she could realize the fruition of her efforts, but investigators today have built their work atop the research she started decades ago.
"It was her life's work," said Elizabeth Marlowe, a professor at Colgate University in New York who has closely tracked the Bubon statues. "She began drawing attention to this problem shortly after the looting occurred and never gave up. She's the one who connected the dots. This is all her work."
The Farmers Came Forward
One summer afternoon in 2021, Zeynep Boz, the Turkish official, sat outside the village cafe in Ibecik's main square and addressed some 90 farmers gathered at tables under the trees.
She described how, once Turkey adopted its antiquity law in 1906, there was no such thing as private ownership of buried antiquities. She assured the villagers they would not be prosecuted for events 60 years earlier and asked them for any old letters, photos or other evidence that could help get the statues back.
"Your village has been robbed to its bones," she said. "It harms the country's reputation. Please help me here."
"In the beginning they were like, 'We don't want to. The people have all died,"' Boz said in an interview. "But then slowly, slowly they understood our only purpose was making things good and they started talking to us."
Boz and officials from the museum at Burdur eventually found 10 men who recalled the looting. Their testimony is crucial to Turkey's repatriation claim, one now supported by New York investigators and other experts.
But not all experts agree that each of the statues was looted from Bubon. Some argue that Bubon was too much of a backwater to have housed such monumental bronzes or that the evidence is inconclusive.
Kokkinia of the National Hellenic Research Foundation said that, while she appreciates Inan's research, she questions whether her archaeological techniques were sufficiently rigorous to have decided the question. She suggests further investigation at the site before every statue is shipped to Turkey.
"I love Bubon," she said. "Let it have all the statues in the world. But it's not necessarily scientifically correct in all cases."
The Danish museum that for years said its bronze head belonged to the headless torso of Septimius Severus from Bubon has more recently said this is not certain. The Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek in Copenhagen said more research was required.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, where the headless "Severus" statue had been on loan, turned it over to the New York investigators for repatriation. But the museum said it was not established that it definitely depicted the emperor or had come from Bubon. While it had the bronze on display, the Met referred to it as simply "Statue of a Nude Male Figure."
The Cleveland Museum of Art, which holds a headless statue that investigators say is the Marcus Aurelius that once stood in Bubon, has gone to court to block its seizure. The Manhattan District Attorney's Office, which served seizure papers on the museum in August, said it has interviews and detailed forensic evidence that support Turkey's claim. The museum has described the evidence as "conjecture," though until recently it had said the bronze "likely represents Marcus Aurelius." In recent months, curators have retitled the statue "Draped Male Figure."
Some worry additionally that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government may be aggressively exploiting the return of cultural property for political purposes, boosting a nostalgic Turkish nationalism and a reassertion of its historical greatness at a time when there are questions about its commitment to human rights and democracy. "Why is the U.S. rewarding Erdogan, a demagogue acting daily against U.S. interests in the region, for this bad action?" wrote Kate Fitz Gibbon of the Committee for Cultural Policy, in 2020.
But the New York investigators say they have recovered additional evidence that illustrates the scope of the looting at the shrine, including the Hecht invoices, the testimony of the villagers from Ibecik and arms and legs from bronze statues that may also be tied to the shrine. (Hecht, who died in 2012, was accused several times of antiquities trafficking but was never convicted.)
Several of the villagers have correctly identified the statues now being targeted as looted from a lineup of other ancient bronzes. Some have mimicked the poses of the bronzes for investigators to show they remembered what they looked like, investigators said.
"There is this unbelievable heartening thing happening where people are coming forward in their 70s and saying, I have been living with this for 55 years," Bogdanos of the district attorney's office said.
Earlier this year, when the statues of Septimius Severus and Lucius Verus were returned, two of the looters, now in their 70s, were invited to see them.
"They were very emotional," Boz said. "They really regret it. You can see it in their eyes."
Photograph Above, archaeologists and site workers recreate the position of bronzes of Roman emperors that once filled a shrine at Bubon in what is now modern Turkey. Left, in 1994 the archaeologist Jale Inan published a book in which she plotted the location of the bronzes as they appeared in ancient times. (C1); Above, a view from the site of an ancient Bubon excavation. Left, from top, in the period when the shrine was active, the Roman Empire had spread as far west as modern-day Britain and as far south as what is now Algeria, Libya and Egypt; the shrine's stone plinths bore the names of the emperors, along with some of their titles. This one once held a statue of the emperor Gordian. Bottom, Jale Inan's book showed where she thought the emperors stood.; Top, many people who lived in Ibecik, a village near the shrine, shared in the proceeds from the sale of the statues in the 1960s. Above, in Ibecik, residents have been helping investigators reconstruct what happened decades ago when the bronzes were dug up.; VALERIAN Roman emperor, A.D. 253 to 260 In the Burdur Archaeological Museum in Turkey. Head location is unknown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CI DEMI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4-C5); MARCUS AURELIUS Roman emperor, A.D. 161 to 180 At the Cleveland Museum of Art, under seizure order. Head location is unknown. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART); CARACALLA Roman emperor, A.D. 198 to 217 Head seized from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and stored in New York. Torso is thought to be with a Greek collector.; SEPTIMIUS SEVERUS Roman emperor, A.D. 193 to 211 Seized from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and returned to Turkey. Some experts say the head is at Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, a museum in Copenhagen. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4, C5.

Subject: Bronze; Historic artifacts; Citizenship; Earthquakes; Archaeology; Roman civilization; Inscriptions; Sculpture; Art galleries & museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: Anatolia; Turkey; Asia Minor

People: Marcus Aurelius (121-180)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/30/arts/ancient-rome-bronzes-bubon.html

Title: Village Gets Its Treasures Back. Maybe More.:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 31, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2884030121

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/village-gets-treasures-back-maybe-more/docview/2884030121/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tracing Treasures of Ancient Rome to a Village That Looted Its Own Heritage

Author: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom

Publication info: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tracing-treasures-ancient-rome-village-that/docview/2883994614/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — One towering ancient bronze was found last year in the Sutton Place apartment of a notable New York philanthropist. Another this year in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A third bronze, the head of a young Roman boy, was seized from Fordham University in March.
Each of these ancient artifacts, and a half-dozen more like them, are believed to have once graced an elaborate shrine in a region that is now part of Turkey. Erected by locals to honor the Roman Empire at a time when it ruled that part of the world, the shrine in the ancient city of Bubon featured a pantheon of emperors, experts say.
So, Lucius Verus, it’s thought, stood next to Marcus Aurelius, his adoptive brother with whom he ruled. The statue of Septimius Severus was beside those of his wife and children. The emperors Valerian and Commodus once stood on their own plinths nearby.
But just decades ago, according to investigators from the Turkish government and the Manhattan district attorney’s office, this set of rare, larger-than-life bronzes came to be scattered around the world. Individual statues ended up in a variety of affluent homes and prestigious museums.
Now, relying on newly discovered records and interviews with regretful, at times tearful, farmers now in their 70s, the investigators say they have been able to reconstruct what happened. They say men from a nearby village found the bronzes buried on a hillside, beginning in the late 1950s and, acting in tandem over a period of years, dug up the statues, often working in large groups to facilitate their excavation. Many were then sold to an antiquities dealer they knew as “American Bob.”
His real name, investigators say, was Robert Hecht and he would become famous — and later infamous — as one of the world’s great dealers of antiquities, both looted and unlooted. Although it had been illegal under Turkish law since 1906 to sell antiquities without official permission, Hecht and others brought the bronzes to market, the investigators say.
Authorities now have begun to seize the bronzes, one by one. Two have already been returned to Turkey. Three more have been seized, and are yet to be sent back. Another four are being sought, according to the district attorney’s Antiquities Trafficking Unit.
Some experts, and at least one museum that holds a statue being sought, have questioned whether the evidence placing these particular artifacts in Bubon is as strong as the authorities have suggested. But Matthew Bogdanos, who leads the unit, said he is undeterred.
“Everybody fights Bubon,” he said of the naysayers. “But if there were ever a case we wanted to get into a courtroom, Bubon is it.”
The story of the Bubon bronzes, though, is more than just a tale of looters’ remorse, investigative zeal, art market intrigue and antiquities repatriation. It’s also a lesson in history, one that presents a more nuanced view of ancient Rome than that popularized by Hollywood epics. Those films often depicted an empire that relied almost exclusively on the spear, the whip and the executioner’s sword to keep the conquered in line. The truth was more complicated.
Some of the men who rose to lead Rome were, in fact, born in conquered lands. Severus was from modern-day Libya; the emperor Trajan from modern-day Spain. Rome allowed a measure of self-government and promoted the promise of citizenship as potent tools to keep the peace. And there was often local buy-in, evident in the shrines built by invaded peoples to show respect for their conquerors.
Known as shrines to the “imperial cult,” only a handful of them survive today in any form. One is the excavation at Bubon, according to archaeologists. From the time of Augustus, Roman emperors were venerated as gods, sometimes alongside the deities themselves. The shrine at Bubon, in what was then known as Asia Minor, is believed to have been built by local gentry as a sign of fealty to Rome. Started around A.D. 50, it is thought to have been in use for perhaps two centuries before it was buried in earthquakes.
The calamity, fortuitously, protected the bronze statuary at a time when discarded metal was routinely recycled into armaments. The Bubon bronzes, instead, remained underground, intact, for almost 2,000 years.
Until the farmers found them.
Asia Minor Under the Empire
Although life under Roman rule would ultimately prove prosperous and pleasant for many of the people of Bubon, it took time and bloodshed.
Before the Roman conquest, parts of Asia Minor, also known as Anatolia, had embraced the Greek language and way of life and the region was largely under the dominion of Greek rulers for two centuries, starting with Alexander the Great in 330 B.C. But when Rome, after much warfare, ultimately took power in the first century B.C., the empire used its well-honed tactics to convert the region into a stable and passive province.
The Romans built paved roads and large public amenities such as baths and markets. They integrated Roman tradespeople, soldiers and administrators into local life, and dangled the possibility of Roman citizenship, which conferred political rights on people from conquered lands.
“For much of Anatolia, the Roman Imperial period was the high point of classical antiquity,” said Peter Talloen, an archaeology professor from the University of Leuven in Belgium who is excavating in the region. “The vast road network built and maintained by Rome would result in Anatolian goods such as textile, pottery, wine and olive oil being profitably exported to all different areas of the Roman Empire.”
Bubon was a small and relatively wealthy agrarian hilltop community that, under Rome, featured central markets, a theater, low battlements and a small stadium for athletic contests.
Its residents, perhaps a few thousand people, archaeologists estimate, would probably have enjoyed self-governance so long as they showed loyalty and paid tribute to the Roman prefect in charge of their province.
Amid the ruins of the theater, there is an inscription relating how the emperor Commodus (A.D. 177-192) commended the city for crushing a band of brigands. Bubon, as a result, the inscription reports, was rewarded with an extra vote at the provincial assembly.
Many monuments would have been erected, Talloen said, some to the local elites who financed the public buildings and activities such as religious festivals, others to the Roman officials who authorized the local leaders to tax things such as the ownership of land or the sale of produce.
The shrine, or sebasteion, at Bubon was one such monument, built to proclaim the populace’s devotion to Rome. Sakir Demirok, an archaeologist with the Burdur Museum in Turkey, said the shrine, a U-shaped courtyard that was probably covered, would probably have been a site for animal sacrifices, incense burning, and communal prayers and vows, led by a local priest.
Romans were keenly religious and worshipped multiple mythological deities, such as Jupiter or Juno, whose favor or disfavor were thought to influence daily life.
“Rome was the safeguard of the peace and welfare,” Demirok said. “It was a system that provisioned grain for the citizens’ good and secured the trade routes. Cities were expected to demonstrate their gratitude for the stability provided by that system.”
The Bubon shrine was begun, experts think, during the reign of Nero, between A.D. 54 and 68, and initially featured statues of the emperor and his wife Poppaea Sabina. Nero was popular in the Greek-speaking provinces because he embraced Greek culture and song. During its life span, at least 14 individuals were represented by statues (11 emperors and three empresses), Demirok said, the last being Gallienus, who ruled from A.D. 260 to 268. As rulers were unseated, their statues were sometimes replaced, so Nero’s, for example, was removed and his name erased from the statue’s plinth, which later was used for Marcus Aurelius, experts said.
Experts credit the survival of the bronzes to a series of earthquakes that occurred in the decades after Gallienus was enshrined, burying the sebasteion in protective layers of soil and stone as the Roman Empire began its long decline.
The restitution of the statues now, as a group, serves to highlight, experts said, the central role they played in binding the people of a remote province such as Bubon, spiritually and politically, to their counterparts in far-off Rome.
“They want to show their allegiance to Rome,” said Christina Kokkinia, an expert at the National Hellenic Research Foundation in Greece who has visited and written about Bubon. “They were proud to be Roman.”
Some Finds in the Fields
The looting of Bubon indeed took a village, investigators say.
The farmers from Ibecik, a small community 1 1/2 miles from the shrine site, told interviewers that they had known about the ancient ruins for years before they began digging up the bronzes sometime in the late 1950s or early 1960s. As young men, they said, their teachers had led them up to a deep hole in the stony hillside that some came to call the “Museum.” One villager recalled some of the bronzes were piled up there, like logs in a fireplace, investigators said.
At first, just a few villagers were involved in selling off artifacts to local smugglers. But soon, the local farmers joined in groups of 20 to 30 — sometimes cooperating, sometimes competing — to excavate and carry away the heavy, large bronzes, now filled with several centuries of settled dirt. Some statues were broken into pieces to make them easier to transport, the farmers recalled. Investigators say pickax marks are still visible on the bronze of Lucius Verus.
When the money came in, many of the families shared in the proceeds.
“It was seen as the property of the village,” said Zeynep Boz, a Turkish official responsible for the return of her country’s antiquities.
The illegal excavations ebbed after 1967 when Turkish police found a headless bronze torso hidden in the local woods. That statue of Valerian, who ruled from A.D. 253 until his capture in battle with the Persians in A.D. 260, now stands in a museum in the nearby town of Burdur.
But other bronzes, investigators say, had already entered the art market. Villagers recently recalled for investigators how a pair of local smugglers ferried the artifacts in a pickup truck to the port town of Izmir, about 4 hours away. There, in the souk, or bazaar, some were sold to a dealer they called American Bob. Investigators say that, based on the evidence they have collected, the dealer was Hecht.
The evidence includes shipping and sales invoices that show Hecht in possession of remarkable 2,000-year-old Roman bronzes that had never been seen before. In the late 1960s, he sold five — four torsos and a head — to a Boston collector named Charles Lipson, who exhibited them at several museums before consigning them to a New York gallery, from which they were resold. Investigators say Hecht sold other bronzes to a second gallery in New York.
At the time, the paper trail did not identify where the bronzes had come from and some of the statues had yet to carry the names of emperors. The bronze that was later identified as a depiction of Marcus Aurelius was just referred to as a large-scale Roman bronze in a 1974 museum exhibition, and there was a debate about where it and others had originated.
A Turkish archaeologist, Jale Inan, came to be convinced they had all come from Bubon, which she visited in 1973, drawn by reports of the looting. In 1979, she traveled to Denmark, where a museum owned a bronze head that had been purchased from Hecht. She and a curator at the Danish museum agreed that it was probably a match for a headless torso in the United States that Lipson had owned and identified as that of Septimius Severus.
In 1990, Inan returned to the hillside in Bubon to dig at the site. She spoke to local farmers who acknowledged they had taken part in illicit digging. She found a journal in which one of the looters had reconstructed what had occurred 30 years earlier. Through interviews and excavation, she plotted the positions of the statues using the stone bases that remained, the names of the emperors still inscribed on them in Greek.
In a paper and in a 1994 book, she cataloged her research, including sketches that showed how she thought some of the statues, now held by various parties around the world, would have fit onto the plinths at Bubon. She died in 2001, before she could realize the fruition of her efforts, but investigators today have built their work atop the research she started decades ago.
“It was her life’s work,” said Elizabeth Marlowe, a professor at Colgate University in New York who has closely tracked the Bubon statues. “She began drawing attention to this problem shortly after the looting occurred and never gave up. She’s the one who connected the dots. This is all her work.”
The Farmers Came Forward
One summer afternoon in 2021, Boz, the Turkish official, sat outside the village cafe in Ibecik’s main square and addressed about 90 farmers gathered at tables under the trees.
She described how, once Turkey adopted its antiquity law in 1906, there was no such thing as private ownership of buried antiquities. She assured the villagers they would not be prosecuted for events 60 years earlier and asked them for any old letters, photos or other evidence that could help get the statues back.
“Your village has been robbed to its bones,” she said. “It harms the country’s reputation. Please help me here.”
“In the beginning, they were like, ‘We don’t want to. The people have all died,’” Boz said in an interview. “But then slowly, slowly they understood our only purpose was making things good and they started talking to us.”
Boz and officials from the museum at Burdur eventually found 10 men who recalled the looting. Their testimony is crucial to Turkey’s repatriation claim, one now supported by New York investigators and other experts.
But not all experts agree that each of the statues was looted from Bubon. Some argue that Bubon was too much of a backwater to have housed such monumental bronzes or that the evidence is inconclusive.
Kokkinia, of the National Hellenic Research Foundation, said that, although she appreciates Inan’s research, she questions whether her archaeological techniques were sufficiently rigorous to have decided the question. She suggests further investigation at the site before every statue is shipped to Turkey.
“I love Bubon,” she said. “Let it have all the statues in the world. But it’s not necessarily scientifically correct in all cases.”
The Danish museum that for years said its bronze head belonged to the headless torso of Septimius Severus from Bubon has more recently said this is not certain. The Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek in Copenhagen said more research was required.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, where the headless “Severus” statue had been on loan, turned it over to the New York investigators for repatriation. But the museum said it was not established that it definitely depicted the emperor or had come from Bubon. While it had the bronze on display, the Met referred to it as simply “Statue of a Nude Male Figure.”
The Cleveland Museum of Art, which holds a headless statue that investigators say is the Marcus Aurelius that once stood in Bubon, has gone to court to block its seizure. The Manhattan district attorney’s office, which served seizure papers on the museum in August, said it has interviews and detailed forensic evidence that support Turkey’s claim. The museum has described the evidence as “conjecture,” although, until recently, it had said the bronze “likely represents Marcus Aurelius.” In recent months, curators have retitled the statue “Draped Male Figure.”
Some worry additionally that Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government may be aggressively exploiting the return of cultural property for political purposes, boosting a nostalgic Turkish nationalism and a reassertion of its historical greatness at a time when there are questions about its commitment to human rights and democracy. “Why is the U.S. rewarding Erdogan, a demagogue acting daily against U.S. interests in the region, for this bad action?” wrote Kate Fitz Gibbon of the Committee for Cultural Policy, in 2020.
The New York investigators say they have recovered additional evidence that illustrates the scope of the looting at the shrine, including the Hecht invoices, the testimony of the villagers from Ibecik, and arms and legs from bronze statues that may also be tied to the shrine. (Hecht, who died in 2012, was accused several times of antiquities trafficking but was never convicted.)
Several of the villagers have correctly identified the statues now being targeted as looted from a lineup of other ancient bronzes. Some have mimicked the poses of the bronzes for investigators to show they remembered what they looked like, investigators said.
“There is this unbelievable heartening thing happening where people are coming forward in their 70s and saying, ‘I have been living with this for 55 years,’” Bogdanos of the district attorney’s office said.
This year, when the statues of Septimius Severus and Lucius Verus were returned, two of the looters, now in their 70s, were invited to see them.
“They were very emotional,” Boz said. “They really regret it. You can see it in their eyes.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Bronze; Historic artifacts; Roman civilization; Art galleries & museums; Citizenship; Earthquakes; Looting; Archaeology; Inscriptions; Sculpture

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: Anatolia; Turkey; New York; United States--US; Asia Minor

People: Marcus Aurelius (121-180)

Identifier / keyword: Restaurants; Commodus (161 92 Ad); Epilepsy; Libya; Museums; Decisions And Verdicts; Law And Legislation; New York State; Citizenship And Naturalization; Colgate University; Copenhagen (Denmark); Campaign Finance; Belgium; Police Department (Nyc); Archaeology And Anthropology; Izmir (Turkey); Arts; Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek; Nineteen Hundred Sixties; United States; Entertainment; Agriculture And Farming; Men And Boys; Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; Sutton Place (Manhattan, Ny); Restoration And Renovation; Suits And Litigation (Civil); University Of Leuven (Belgium); Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Danish American s; Roman Civilization; Finances; Cleveland Museum Of Art; Art; Denmark; Turkey; Research; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Rome (Italy); Music; Nero (37 68 Ad); Smuggling; Greek Language; Search And Seizure; Collectors And Collections; Vandalism; Royal Families; Nineteen Hundred Fifties; Bowley, Graham; Greek Civilization; Marcus Aurelius Antoninus; Arts And Antiquities Looting; Fordham University; Names, Organizational; Anatolia; Colleges And Universities; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Wines; Metropolitan Museum Of Art; Names, Personal; Age, Chronological

Title: Tracing Treasures of Ancient Rome to a Village That Looted Its Own Heritage

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-30T21:47:05Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883994614

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tracing-treasures-ancient-rome-village-that/docview/2883994614/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kevin Phillips, 82, Who Foresaw G.O.P.'s Southern Strategy, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Roberts, Sam

Publication info: Roberts, Sam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kevin-phillips-82-who-foresaw-g-o-p-s-southern/docview/2875247159/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A conservative mastermind of the race-based "Southern strategy," he later, as a writer, had second thoughts after assessing income inequality under three Republican presidents.
Kevin Phillips, a self-taught ethnographer whose groundbreaking findings in the mid-1960s heralded what he called an "emerging Republican majority" in national politics, based on a so-called Southern strategy that would help the party win five of the next six presidential elections, died on Monday in Naples, Fla. He was 82.
His wife, Martha Phillips, said the cause of death, in a hospice near his home, was complications of Alzheimer's disease.
Mr. Phillips was in his late 20s when he published his first book, "The Emerging Republican Majority" (1969), which, refining earlier studies he had done, predicted a rightward realignment in national politics driven by ethnic and racial divisions and white discontent.
With that book, he emerged as an influential, if controversial, conservative theoretician. (He called himself a "political analyst," not a strategist.) He would be credited with predicting and even masterminding the Southern strategy, which in large part enabled Richard M. Nixon to narrowly win the presidency in 1968 by appealing to the grievances of white voters in the South who had historically voted for Democrats. (Nixon said he did not read the book until after the election.)
"All the talk about Republicans making inroads into the Negro vote is persiflage," Mr. Phillips wrote.
In what many considered a cynical calculation, he recommended that Republicans not dilute the Voting Rights Act because "the more Negroes who register as Democrats in the South, the sooner the Negrophobe whites will quit the Democrats and become Republicans."
"That's where the votes are," he added. "Without that prodding from the blacks, the whites will backslide into their old comfortable arrangement with the local Democrats."
"The whole secret of politics," he told the journalist Garry Wills during the 1968 presidential campaign, "is knowing who hates who."
After Nixon was elected in 1968, Mr. Phillips was recruited as a special assistant by Attorney General John N. Mitchell, who had been Nixon's campaign manager. But he left the administration after less than two years for a career as a political sage, through his own syndicated newspaper column and newsletter and as a television and radio commentator.
The author of 15 books, a number of which made the best-seller lists, he would popularize the term "New Right" -- to distinguish "populists" like Ronald Reagan and George C. Wallace from "elitists" like Nelson A. Rockefeller, Gerald R. Ford and William F. Buckley Jr. -- and coin the term "Sun Belt," for the states from Florida to California. As destinations for many migrating white ethnic Democrats, those states, in his view, were ripe for Republican gains.
The Newsweek columnist Meg Greenfield called Mr. Phillips "the prophet-geographer of the New Right."
The titles of his books suggest a distinct trajectory -- from his view of Republican hegemony as a source of stability and order to what the historian Alan Brinkley, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called "a nightmarish vision of ideological extremism, catastrophic fiscal irresponsibility, rampant greed and dangerous shortsightedness," as exemplified in the best-selling Phillips book he was reviewing, "American Theocracy: The Peril and Politics of Radical Religion, Oil, and Borrowed Money in the 21st Century" (2006).
Among Mr. Phillips's other best sellers was "Wealth and Democracy" (2002), an indictment of Reagan administration policies that he said induced income inequality and represented "a plutographic revolution comparable to that of the late 19th century." In his jeremiad "American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush" (2004), he accused both President George Bush and his son President George W. Bush of "favoritism toward the energy sector, defense industries, the Pentagon and the C.I.A., as well as insistence on tax breaks for the investor class and upper-income groups."
It was a long way from "The Emerging Republican Majority." In that first book he had written: "Liberalism has turned away from the common people and become institutionalized into an establishment. Its spokesmen are driven around in limousines and supported by rich foundations, the television networks and publishing houses, the knowledge industry, the billion‐dollar universities and the urban consulting firms which profiteer from poverty."
His expectations of Republican supremacy through the 20th century were doomed, he later wrote, because of the Watergate scandal, which prompted Nixon's resignation. The break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in the Watergate Hotel in Washington was prompted in part by White House efforts to obtain damaging information on Lawrence O'Brien, the Democratic national chairman. Jeb Magruder, a Nixon operative, later testified that the tip about that information had come from Mr. Phillips.
Kevin Price Phillips was born on Nov. 30, 1940, in Manhattan. His father, William, was the chairman of the New York State Liquor Authority. His mother, Dorothy (Price) Phillips, was a homemaker.
He had his first brush with politics when he supported the presidential candidacy of Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952; four years later, while attending the Bronx High School of Science -- he would graduate at 16 -- he headed the Bronx Youth Committee for Eisenhower and trumpeted the president's re-election from a sound truck on the streets of the Bronx.
He grew up in a Manhattan that after World War II was populated by often mutually hostile ethnic groups, to none of which he fully belonged. His heritage was Irish, English and Scottish, Democratic and Republican. His father was Roman Catholic, his mother Protestant.
Feeling excluded, he turned to statistics as a teenager to look beyond the melting pot and study it scientifically. Examining the working-class Roman Catholic offspring of Irish and Italian immigrants and their counterparts of Eastern European descent, he discerned among them a growing antagonism toward the Black and Hispanic people who had become the beneficiaries of government programs.
"I guess my after-school study of ethnic political behavior was a natural progression from taking zoology in the classroom," he told The Times in 1970.
Mr. Phillips graduated from Colgate University in upstate New York with a bachelor's degree in political science in 1961 after studying economic history during his junior year at the University of Edinburgh. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 1964.
He later tested the maps and predictive voting surveys that he compiled as a 23-year-old congressional aide to Paul A. Fino, the Bronx's last hometown Republican representative, who retired in 1968 after serving eight terms in the House.
By the time he finished working for Mr. Fino, Mr. Phillips told The Times, "You could ask me about any congressional district in the country, and I could tell you its ethnic composition, its voting history and the issues that would appeal to its electorate."
In 1968, Mr. Phillips married Martha Henderson. In addition to his wife, he is survived by their children, Betsy Khamdiev and Andrew and Alec Phillips; seven grandchildren; and a brother, Steven.
In reviewing "American Theocracy" in the Jesuit magazine America, Olga Bonfiglio, a professor of English at Kalamazoo College in Michigan and a social justice activist, wrote: "Throughout the pages of Phillips's book, readers will find a consistent warning undergirded by hope. It is this: Americans who believe in civil liberties, the Constitution and democratic values must pick up the leadership for the nation themselves. Relying on a savior, an Antichrist or the Democrats to fill the void will not work."
In that book, published during the George W. Bush administration, Mr. Phillips prophesied what he called an "unholy alliance" of extremist religious fundamentalism and a dependence on foreign oil and borrowed money. He invoked his first book in titling his last chapter "The Erring Republican Majority."
"The popular conservative majority now taking shape, like past popular movements, is vulnerable to aberration," Mr. Phillips wrote. "With its important component of military, apprehensive bourgeois and law‐and‐order‐seeking individuals, there is a proclivity toward authoritarianism and overreaction to the liberal-engendered permissiveness and anarchy of the '60s. This is a danger the administration should watch carefully."
Photograph With a 1969 book, Mr. Phillips emerged as a controversial conservative theoretician. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS); Kevin Phillips in 1982. A colleague once called him "the prophet-geographer of the New Right." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANA WALKER/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: American history; Presidential elections; Voting rights; Theocracy; Books; Income inequality; Political parties; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Income inequality

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Bush, George W

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/10/us/politics/kevin-phillips-dead.html

Title: Kevin Phillips, 82, Who Foresaw G.O.P.'s Southern Strategy, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2875247159

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kevin-phillips-82-who-foresaw-g-o-p-s-southern/docview/2875247159/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collecti on

____________________________________________________________

Vigilance Or Hysteria Over Origins Of Artifacts?: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Bowley, Graham

Publication info: Bowley, Graham. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vigilance-hysteria-over-origins-artifacts/docview/2865707482/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After a touring exhibition of antiquities from the Museum of Fine Arts in St. Petersburg, Fla., raised concerns at a Denver museum, a curator was dismissed.
The Museum of Fine Arts in St. Petersburg, Fla., was riding high as "From Chaos to Order," an exhibition of ancient Greek art, became its first major traveling show in years, making stops at museums in Florida and South Carolina before preparing to head west.
"The idea was to look at the origins of Greek art in a new way," said Michael Bennett, the former St. Petersburg curator who organized the show of works from the Geometric period, circa 900 to 700 B.C. "We felt it had something new to say about Greek art."
But earlier this year, when the exhibition was scheduled to travel to the Denver Art Museum, the staff there balked because many of the 57 artifacts lacked detailed provenances. None of the antiquities, on loan from the businessman and collector Sol Rabin, were known to have been looted, but some had been purchased from sellers who have been accused of handling stolen antiquities in the past, Denver museum officials noted.
The Denver museum had recently had its own scandal, when it returned four artifacts to Cambodia. Its director, Christoph Heinrich, suggested postponing the Florida exhibition in the hope that the provenance issues could be resolved.
"I am sure you are familiar with how the changing legal and ethical standards and perceptions of collecting and displaying antiquities are front and center for many world culture museums today, including ours," Heinrich wrote to officials at St. Petersburg. He described the show as a risk, noting that Denver had "experienced recent negative press for a small number of our legacy collections and associations with red flag dealers."
The show never made it to Denver. Two months later, Bennett, the curator in St. Petersburg, was put on leave. A month after that he was fired.
The exact circumstances of Bennett's dismissal, which dismayed his supporters in St. Petersburg, remain unclear. Museum officials declined to detail their reasoning, saying they could not discuss personnel matters, but in a statement they stressed the importance of adhering to the highest industry standards in a changing world and said that they had started a complete provenance review of the museum's collection.
The episode highlights a wider debate now rippling through the art world.
While many museums once actively pursued ancient items with little concern for their ownership histories, curators in recent decades have come to embrace stricter standards designed to ensure that antiquities they acquire or display have not been looted or stolen. In recent years, scores of artifacts have been returned to countries around the world after museums acknowledged they had been misled in transactions, or had not made sufficient inquiries about the artworks' origins.
Bennett said in an interview that he was never given a good reason for his dismissal, but was told at one point his leave was related to the issue of reaccreditation to a museum association, without further elaboration. He said that his office was sealed with tape and that he was escorted from the building. A letter from the museum's attorney to his lawyer about his dismissal, which was obtained by The New York Times, noted that as an at-will employee, he could be fired at any time without cause but added that "If cause were required to terminate Dr. Bennett's employment, MFA would have more than sufficient grounds to do so, as Dr. Bennett well knows." Bennett said that, despite his repeated requests, he was never informed of any cause and was never given a chance to discuss it.
A board member, Robert Drapkin, said that he believed the provenance issue was a factor but that he was told there was more than one reason for the dismissal.
Some experts suggested that it had been reckless for Bennett and the museum to mount the exhibition without having done more to investigate the origins of some of the objects.
But Bennett, his supporters and several other antiquities curators said that they feared the dismissal was an overreaction to the concerns raised in Denver. Several docents, current and former board members and others associated with the museum said that they were dismayed by his firing, and two donors have cited his dismissal as the reason they are withdrawing planned gifts of antiquities to the museum.
"The response was exaggerated," said Belinda Dumont, a board member at the St. Petersburg museum. "I think the hysteria about provenance is deeply misguided because the items are valuable to be shown to the public."
In a statement, Anne-Marie Russell, who became the museum's director and chief executive after the exhibition began touring, and Piers Davies, the chair of its board of trustees, described their efforts to comply with best practices in the field.
"It is our responsibility, as a museum, to safeguard and preserve works of art -- objects that represent the highest aspirations of humankind -- in perpetuity," the statement said. "Yet we do so amid the reality of a dynamic and constantly evolving world."
Bennett's supporters note that the artifacts involved in this case are not known to have been looted. But by modern standards, they exist in a kind of provenance limbo without the sort of prior ownership histories that most museums now seek when acquiring ancient objects but that many had not always demanded in the past as they built their collections.
Some of the Greek pieces drew heightened scrutiny because of the dealers or galleries who had sold them. A few came from Robert Hecht, a prominent antiquities expert who investigators say often dealt in stolen objects. He died in 2012.
"There is absolutely no logic that because a dealer is claimed to be a red flag dealer that all things he sold are red flags," Rabin, the owner of the works in question, said in an interview.
Several major U.S. museums with antiquities collections hold items that they, or a donor, acquired from Hecht, who had been one of the world's leading dealers in ancient artifacts.
But there is no question that the standards for museums have evolved.
In recent decades museums have agreed to best-practice guidelines not to acquire an object without clear, documented evidence that it had either left its country of origin before 1970, or had been legally exported after 1970. Guidelines for museums accepting short-term loans are somewhat more relaxed than for acquisitions -- and in some cases even encourage the exhibition of works with incomplete histories because it might spur people with new information to come forward. But the guidelines also say museums should research rigorously and consider the risks before going ahead with loans.
Most of the 57 items in the St. Petersburg exhibition lacked evidence that they were already outside Greece by 1970, according to the Denver analysis.
With so many questions about the history of the artifacts, it was surprising, said Elizabeth Marlowe, the director of the museum studies program at Colgate University, that Bennett "would lend his scholarly imprimatur to this collection, which is still in private hands, and display it repeatedly in museums."
Before going to St. Petersburg in 2018, Bennett had worked for many years at the Cleveland Museum of Art, where he was viewed as a leading U.S. expert in the field of Greek and Roman art. But two of his purchases there also drew scrutiny.
A Greek bronze statue of Apollo, which the museum still holds, had a patchy provenance and an ancient Roman portrait of Drusus Minor had to be returned to Italy. Bennett said he had only agreed to buy the Greek statue after scientific tests showed that it had been excavated more than a century ago. He also contributed to the research that led to the return of the Roman artifact.
Since Bennett's firing in Florida, two fellow antiquities curators have spoken out on his behalf. Michael Padgett, former curator of ancient art at the Princeton University Art Museum, wrote to the board of trustees in St. Petersburg, praising Bennett.
And Carlos Picon, the former head curator of Greek and Roman art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said in an interview that Bennett should not have been fired, but should have been told what the issue was "and given a chance to explain and fix it."
Neither the Rollins Museum of Art, in Winter Park, Fla., or the Gibbes Museum of Art in Charleston, S.C., where the exhibition toured, raised issues about the loaned items.
Patty Gerstenblith, an expert on cultural heritage issues and a professor at DePaul University College of Law, said that the questions about the artifacts went beyond red flags. "What's higher than red?" she asked.
She said these signs of caution are not necessarily evidence of illegality; just that the organizers should have done more due diligence.
Rabin, who is currently chair of the Ancient Art Committee at the Harvard Art Museums, said his collection of Greek art, which runs to some 700 pieces, was built up over several decades, with the advice of Bennett and David Mitten, an emeritus professor of classical art and archaeology at Harvard, who died last year. He said that two of the objects in the show had also been on loan recently to other major museums.
Rabin said he had not asked dealers he worked with for full provenance information, but had sought clear assurances objects had not been stolen.
In dealing with Hecht, Rabin said: "I would look him in the eye. He would say, 'No, these are fine. These are legitimate pieces,' so I purchased them."
Bennett said the reality is that for decades ancient objects changed hands without any of the vetting that is now considered routine. As a result, he said, there are many legitimate objects without established ownership histories but which should not be considered looted.
The better approach, he suggested, would be to openly exhibit items with gaps in their provenance in ways that foster scholarship but also invite wider scrutiny.
"People often talk about orphaned art," he said. "I believe they need homes. I believe it's a good thing we know where they are and what they are for us to understand them better, and then we can have a discussion."
Geraldine Fabrikant contributed reporting from St. Petersburg, Fla.
Geraldine Fabrikant contributed reporting from St. Petersburg, Fla.
Illustration The Museum of Fine Arts in St. Petersburg, Fla., top, dismissed a curator after questions arose about the exhibition "From Chaos to Order." Among items displayed was a cart, above, from the eighth century B.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROSIE BETANCOURT/JEFF GREENBERG, UNIVERSAL IMAGES GROUP VIA GETTY IMAGES; MICHAEL BENNETT) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Historic artifacts; Art galleries & museums; Curators; Looting; Cultural heritage; Provenance

Location: Florida; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/17/arts/curator-fired-provenance.html

Title: Vigilance Or Hysteria Over Origins Of Artifacts?:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 18, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865707482

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vigilance-hysteria-over-origins-artifacts/docview/2865707482/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Mild-Mannered' but Firm, Jurist Allays Early Doubts: [National Desk]

Author: Draper, Robert

Publication info: Draper, Robert. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mild-mannered-firm-jurist-allays-early-doubts/docview/2840448604/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Judge Aileen M. Cannon, a previously obscure Trump judicial appointee, has been viewed with incredulity by much of the legal establishment ever since she issued a ruling temporarily halting the federal investigation into the former president's handling of classified documents. After a conservative appeals court slapped her down, Democrats said she was either incompetent or some kind of black-robed Trojan horse for the MAGA movement.
On Friday morning, that view began to change.
In a ruling that set a start date for the documents trial on May 20, 2024 -- splitting the difference between prosecutors who wanted the trial to begin in December and a Trump team that pushed for a date after next year's election -- Judge Cannon showed, for now, that she is the jurist her defenders have described: a level-headed and mostly ordinary conservative judge not beholden to the man who appointed her.
"The notion that she's inexperienced is misplaced and ignores her exceptional résumé before taking the bench," said Jesse Panuccio, a prominent Florida defense lawyer who served in the Trump administration as acting associate attorney general. "It also penalizes her for being a mild-mannered woman. They wouldn't be saying this if she was a big-personality male."
There were hints of that jurist earlier in the week when Judge Cannon conducted a brisk pretrial conference at the federal courthouse in Fort Pierce, Fla., to hear arguments about the timing of the trial. Over two hours, she left little doubt as to whose courtroom it was.
"That's not my question," she snapped at one of the lawyers for former President Donald J. Trump for offering a rambling rejoinder to one of her queries. Attentive to the point of reminding each side what the other had said earlier, she frequently pushed for more specifics, asking the Trump team at one point, "Can you put more meat on the bones to that?" At another moment she asked the Trump side to "articulate precisely" the "novel questions" they had said should delay the trial.
Judge Cannon appeared sympathetic to the Trump team's argument that the classified documents presented complex issues that might require more preparation time, but she also nodded when prosecutors argued that Mr. Trump should not be treated differently from any other citizen.
Most of all, Judge Cannon made clear her preference that the trial be put on the docket sooner rather than later. "I don't want to have delays," she warned the defense team, then concluded by promising to issue a ruling "promptly." Less than 72 hours later, she set the May trial date, which falls two months before the Republican National Convention, when Mr. Trump, the current Republican front-runner, could be at the start of a general election campaign.
The scrutiny is hardly over for Judge Cannon's conduct overseeing the most consequential trial in at least a generation, one in which prosecutors have charged a former president with federal crimes related to the illegal retention of classified documents. But at this point some veterans of the federal bar say that the Democratic hand-wringing over Judge Cannon's initial ruling, soundly rejected by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, will prove to be unwarranted.
"Especially given that Judge Cannon is relatively new to the federal bench, I fully expect that she was chastened by the 11th Circuit's reversal," said J. Michael Luttig, a former judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
Several in the Florida legal community who know Judge Cannon have taken exception to assertions that she is a dunce, a Trump stealth warrior or both.
One of them, a veteran federal prosecutor, suggested that Judge Cannon was merely being "hyper-cautious" in appointing a special master to review the documents at issue in the Trump case. Another, a longtime defense attorney in the state, insisted that Judge Cannon would have issued the same ruling had the former president been a Democrat.
A close inspection of Judge Cannon's trajectory, including interviews with friends, former classmates and colleagues, reveals a diligent conservative achiever who seemed destined for success but perhaps ill-equipped for the notoriety that has now overtaken her.
"There are some judges who might see the Trump case as a way to make their name," Mr. Panuccio said. "Knowing her, I can't imagine her saying, 'I hope the assignment wheel turns it to me."'
High school in Coconut Grove
In an advertisement that ran in her high school senior class yearbook, the parents of the future judge proudly declared, "Look out world. Here comes Aileen!" For most of her professional life, however, Aileen Mercedes Cannon seemed laboratory-designed to attract as little attention as possible.
At the time of her nomination in May 2020, Ms. Cannon, then 39, was one of hundreds of assistant U.S. attorneys working in Florida's Southern District. She had published no legal essays, given no speeches, worked for no elected officials. Like many federal prosecutors working cases involving drug traffickers and violent criminals, Ms. Cannon avoided social media.
A registered Republican who had contributed $ 100 to the 2018 campaign of Gov. Ron DeSantis, she had otherwise engaged in no known political activity. Apart from a few fanciful essays she had written during her college years for El Nuevo Herald, the independent Spanish-language sister paper to The Miami Herald, Ms. Cannon's interactions with the media had consisted of a single interview she and her husband had given to a wedding website in 2009, when they disclosed that his proposal to her was briefly interrupted by the sighting of a turtle.
During her opening statement to the Senate Judiciary Committee in an otherwise perfunctory nomination hearing on July 29, 2020, Ms. Cannon volunteered information about a motivating force in her life. She spoke of her mother, Mercedes Cubas, "who at the age of 7 had to flee the oppressive Castro regime in search of freedom and security," and also her mother's parents, who "were forced to leave everything they had worked so hard to build in Cuba to build a life here in the United States."
Those who know Judge Cannon say that her Cuban-exile heritage undergirds her patriotism and conservative values. Still, that origin tale falls somewhat short of hardscrabble.
Judge Cannon's mother arrived in Miami from Havana in 1960, according to Florida records, on a Pan American flight and listed as her new place of residence the stately Miami Colonial Hotel. Her father, Judge Cannon's grandfather, Jose Manuel Cubas, had co-owned with his brother a successful Havana-based advertising firm, Siboney, that they soon re-established in Puerto Rico, with offices to follow throughout Latin America and the U.S. Its client list would include Colgate-Palmolive, Kellogg and Red Lobster.
To the extent that there was tragedy in Ms. Cannon's life, it occurred on the side of her father, Michael Cannon, an Indiana-bred advertising executive who worked at Siboney and married Ms. Cubas in 1978, three years before Ms. Cannon was born in Colombia, where her father was working for Siboney at the time. In 1984, Mr. Cannon's father and Judge Cannon's grandfather, William P. Cannon, a U.S. Navy veteran, was shot and killed in his home by his son-in-law. (Aileen Cannon was 3 at the time.)
Ms. Cannon's parents divorced in 1997, her junior year at Ransom Everglades Upper School, a private college preparatory institution in the lush Miami suburb of Coconut Grove. On a campus that did not disqualify high achievers from cool-kid status, classmates remember Ms. Cannon as being part of the in crowd: studious and prone to taking a seat at the front of the classroom in the manner of a teacher's pet, while also regularly cavorting with the flashiest girls on campus. Still, she was not among the two voted by her graduating class of about 130 as "most likely to succeed," and three classmates told The New York Times in recent weeks that they never expected her to be in national headlines.
In 1999, Ms. Cannon enrolled at Duke University, where she pledged the Delta Delta Delta sorority while maintaining the reputation of a workhorse. From there, she entered the University of Michigan Law School, graduated magna cum laude in 2007, and had a clerkship a year later in Des Moines with Steven M. Colloton, a conservative judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. In 2009, she moved to Washington and spent three years as a litigation associate in the demanding law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.
At Ransom Everglades, Ms. Cannon extolled a Reagan-esque faith in the free market, just as she did at Duke, according to classmates at both schools. She joined the conservative Federalist Society at Michigan Law, a decision that reflected a desire to find community on an otherwise liberal campus rather than a careerist calculation, two people who knew her said. She secured the clerkship with Judge Colloton based on her productivity rather than her conservative bona fides, according to Ryan Koopmans, a lawyer who clerked for the judge the year before Ms. Cannon.
"He wants clerks like her who would do the work and do it well," Mr. Koopmans said. "I met with her the day she interviewed with Judge Colloton, and I don't recall even knowing her politics."
By the time she returned to Florida in 2013 to work as an assistant U.S. attorney in the state's Southern District, Ms. Cannon was widely viewed as a solid if unspectacular litigant. First in the major crimes division and later in the appellate division, colleagues remember her as "bookish," "thorough" and "courteous," capable of handling complicated cases while not attempting to hog credit for the outcome. Ms. Cannon was now married to a restaurant executive, Josh Lorence, a mother to two young children and not regarded as an ambitious climber in South Florida's legal circles.
Still, after a seat became vacant on the U.S. District Court for Florida's Southern District in the summer of 2017, word eventually reached both the office of Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, and the Trump White House Counsel's Office -- exactly how, no one seems to remember -- that a certain prospective replacement checked a number of boxes. The lawyer in question was female. She was young. She was of Cuban heritage. She was conservative. She had a top-tier law school pedigree. She possessed unimpeachable legal credentials and no skeletons in her closet, nor even the remotest paper trail.
There was an additional benefit to Ms. Cannon, according to two people familiar with the judicial nominations process during the Trump era: She and her husband lived in Vero Beach, a short commute to the mausoleum-like courthouse in Fort Pierce that had recently been vacated by Judge Robin L. Rosenberg. It was a somewhat scruffy outpost that other potential nominees were reluctant to relocate to.
In June 2019, Mr. Rubio's staff contacted Ms. Cannon and urged her to apply for the vacant seat. She did so that month. On Nov. 12, 2020, five days after The Associated Press declared that Mr. Trump had been defeated by Joseph R. Biden Jr., Judge Cannon was confirmed by a vote of 56 to 21. Fittingly, her ascent received almost no notice.
Her history on the bench
Judge Cannon's ruling in September -- when she decreed that a special master would decide which, if any, of the government documents seized at Mr. Trump's private club could be perused by Justice Department officials -- has prompted the parsing of her history on the bench for portents.
But as is the case with most jurists, her rulings offer a mixed narrative. Last year, she sentenced Paul Hoeffer, who had pleaded guilty after placing threatening phone calls to prominent Democrats to 18 months in prison, less than half of what federal prosecutors had recommended. Mr. Hoeffer's calls had included one to former Speaker Nancy Pelosi, whom he vowed to behead.
That same year, Judge Cannon also awarded a lighter sentence than requested by prosecutors to a three-time felon who had thrown a chair at a federal officer during a trial while threatening to kill him. In April, Judge Cannon denied a motion by a former Florida Republican congressman, David Rivera, to vacate a $ 456,000 fine he was ordered to pay for violating Federal Election Commission guidelines. Mr. Rivera has appealed her decision to the 11th Circuit.
In interviews, three Florida lawyers who have tried cases before Judge Cannon described her as even-handed, soft-spoken but firm, and well prepared. A different question, they acknowledged, is whether she is up to officiating a first-of-its-kind criminal case that could very well make the O.J. Simpson murder trial resemble a bird-watching convention.
One of the Florida lawyers, Jeffrey Garland, who is based in Fort Pierce, noted that the area's conservative jury pool gives Mr. Trump a decided advantage but that Judge Cannon would still be accorded the leeway to steer them. "In federal court, the judge is going to give them the laws to follow," Mr. Garland said. "And what she gives them is very likely going to strongly influence the outcome of the jury's fact-finding."
To those who have long known her, such as Alejandro Miyar, a Miami-based lawyer and former Obama administration official who graduated with Judge Cannon from Ransom Everglades, being up to the task does not mean that she is likely to relish her moment as the center of attention.
"I can't think of any world in which she would want to make this case about her," he said.
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Photograph PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH VIA THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA); The 1999 Ransom Everglades Upper School yearbook says, "Look out world. Here comes Aileen!" (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

ERIC Subject: Private Colleges; High Achievement; Presidents; High School Seniors; Judges; Parents; Mothers; Fathers; Place of Residence

Subject: Nominations; Presidents; Court hearings & proceedings; Legal defense; Federal court decisions; Classified information; Legal arguments; College campuses; Political advertising; Trials; Public prosecutors; Judges & magistrates

People: Cannon, Aileen

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/21/us/judge-cannon.html

Title: 'Mild-Mannered' but Firm, Jurist Allays Early Doubts:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2840448604

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mild-mannered-firm-jurist-allays-early-doubts/docview/2840448604/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Untested Judge in the Trump Documents Case

Author: Draper, Robert

Publication info: Draper, Robert. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/untested-judge-trump-documents-case/docview/2840402203/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
FORT PIERCE, Fla. — Judge Aileen Cannon, a previously obscure Trump judicial appointee, has been viewed with incredulity by much of the legal establishment ever since she issued a ruling temporarily halting the federal investigation into the former president’s handling of classified documents. After a conservative appeals court slapped her down, Democrats said she was either incompetent or some kind of black-robed Trojan horse for the MAGA movement.
On Friday morning, that view began to change.
In a ruling that set a start date for the documents trial on May 20, 2024 — splitting the difference between prosecutors who wanted the trial to begin in December and a Trump team that pushed for a date after next year’s election — Cannon showed, for now, that she is the jurist her defenders have described: a levelheaded and mostly ordinary conservative judge not beholden to the man who appointed her.
“The notion that she’s inexperienced is misplaced and ignores her exceptional resume before taking the bench,” said Jesse Panuccio, a prominent Florida defense lawyer who served in the Trump administration as acting associate attorney general. “It also penalizes her for being a mild-mannered woman. They wouldn’t be saying this if she was a big-personality male.”
There were hints of that jurist earlier in the week when Cannon conducted a brisk pretrial conference at the federal courthouse in Fort Pierce, Florida, to hear arguments about the timing of the trial. Over two hours, she left little doubt as to whose courtroom it was.
“That’s not my question,” she snapped at one of the lawyers for former President Donald Trump for offering a rambling rejoinder to one of her queries. Attentive to the point of reminding each side what the other had said earlier, she frequently pushed for more specifics, asking the Trump team at one point, “Can you put more meat on the bones to that?” At another moment, she asked the Trump side to “articulate precisely” the “novel questions” they had said should delay the trial.
Cannon appeared sympathetic to the Trump team’s argument that the classified documents presented complex issues that might require more preparation time, but she also nodded when prosecutors argued that Trump should not be treated differently from any other citizen.
Most of all, Cannon made clear her preference that the trial be put on the docket sooner rather than later. “I don’t want to have delays,” she warned the defense team, then concluded by promising to issue a ruling “promptly.” Less than 72 hours later, she set the May trial date, which falls two months before the Republican National Convention, when Trump, the current Republican front-runner, could be at the start of a general election campaign.
The scrutiny is hardly over for Cannon’s conduct overseeing the most consequential trial in at least a generation, one in which prosecutors have charged a former president with federal crimes related to the illegal retention of classified documents. But at this point, some veterans of the federal bar say that the Democratic hand-wringing over Cannon’s initial ruling, soundly rejected by the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in Atlanta, will prove to be unwarranted.
“Especially given that Judge Cannon is relatively new to the federal bench, I fully expect that she was chastened by the 11th Circuit’s reversal,” said J. Michael Luttig, a former judge for the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
Several in the Florida legal community who know Cannon have taken exception to assertions that she is a dunce, a Trump stealth warrior or both.
One of them, a veteran federal prosecutor, suggested that Cannon was merely being “hypercautious” in appointing a special master to review the documents at issue in the Trump case. Another, a longtime defense attorney in the state, insisted that Cannon would have issued the same ruling had the former president been a Democrat.
A close inspection of Cannon’s trajectory, including interviews with friends, former classmates and colleagues, reveals a diligent conservative achiever who seemed destined for success but perhaps ill-equipped for the notoriety that has now overtaken her.
“There are some judges who might see the Trump case as a way to make their name,” Panuccio said. “Knowing her, I can’t imagine her saying, ‘I hope the assignment wheel turns it to me.’”
High School in Coconut Grove
In an advertisement that ran in her high school senior class yearbook, the parents of the future judge proudly declared, “Look out world. Here comes Aileen!” For most of her professional life, however, Aileen Mercedes Cannon seemed laboratory-designed to attract as little attention as possible.
At the time of her nomination in May 2020, Cannon, then 39, was one of hundreds of assistant U.S. attorneys working in Florida’s Southern District. She had published no legal essays, given no speeches, worked for no elected officials. Like many federal prosecutors working cases involving drug traffickers and violent criminals, Cannon avoided social media.
A registered Republican who had contributed $100 to the 2018 campaign of Gov. Ron DeSantis, she had otherwise engaged in no known political activity. Apart from a few fanciful essays she had written during her college years for El Nuevo Herald , the independent Spanish-language sister paper to The Miami Herald, Cannon’s interactions with the media had consisted of a single interview she and her husband had given to a wedding website in 2009, when they disclosed that his proposal to her was briefly interrupted by the sighting of a turtle.
During her opening statement to the Senate Judiciary Committee in an otherwise perfunctory nomination hearing on July 29, 2020, Cannon volunteered information about a motivating force in her life. She spoke of her mother, Mercedes Cubas, “who at the age of 7 had to flee the oppressive Castro regime in search of freedom and security,” and also her mother’s parents, who “were forced to leave everything they had worked so hard to build in Cuba to build a life here in the United States.”
Those who know Cannon say that her Cuban-exile heritage undergirds her patriotism and conservative values. Still, that origin tale falls somewhat short of hardscrabble.
Cannon’s mother arrived in Miami from Havana in 1960, according to Florida records, on a Pan American flight and listed as her new place of residence the stately Miami Colonial Hotel. Her father, Cannon’s grandfather, Jose Manuel Cubas, had co-owned with his brother a successful Havana-based advertising firm, Siboney, that they soon reestablished in Puerto Rico, with offices to follow throughout Latin America and the U.S. Its client list would include Colgate-Palmolive, Kellogg and Red Lobster.
To the extent that there was tragedy in Cannon’s life, it occurred on the side of her father, Michael Cannon, an Indiana-bred advertising executive who worked at Siboney and married Mercedes Cubas in 1978, three years before Aileen Cannon was born in Colombia, where her father was working for Siboney at the time. In 1984, Aileen Cannon’s grandfather, William P. Cannon, a U.S. Navy veteran, was shot and killed in his home by his son-in-law. (Aileen Cannon was 3 at the time.)
Cannon’s parents divorced in 1997, her junior year at Ransom Everglades Upper School, a private college preparatory institution located in the lush Miami suburb of Coconut Grove. On a campus that did not disqualify high achievers from cool-kid status, classmates remember Cannon as being part of the in crowd: studious and prone to taking a seat at the front of the classroom in the manner of a teacher’s pet, while also regularly cavorting with the flashiest girls on campus. Still, she was not among the two voted by her graduating class of about 130 as “most likely to succeed,” and three classmates told The New York Times in recent weeks they never expected her to be in national headlines.
In 1999, Cannon enrolled at Duke University, where she pledged the Delta Delta Delta sorority while maintaining the reputation of a workhorse. From there, she entered the University of Michigan Law School, graduated magna cum laude in 2007, and had a clerkship a year later in Des Moines, Iowa, with Steven Colloton, a conservative judge on the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. In 2009, she moved to Washington and spent three years as a litigation associate in the demanding law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.
At Ransom Everglades, Cannon extolled a Ronald Reagan-esque faith in the free market, just as she did at Duke, according to classmates at both schools. She joined the conservative Federalist Society at Michigan Law, a decision that reflected a desire to find community on an otherwise liberal campus rather than a careerist calculation, two people who knew her said. She secured the clerkship with Colloton based on her productivity rather than her conservative bona fides, according to Ryan Koopmans, a lawyer who clerked for the judge the year before Cannon.
“He wants clerks like her who would do the work and do it well,” Koopmans said. “I met with her the day she interviewed with Judge Colloton, and I don’t recall even knowing her politics.”
By the time she returned to Florida in 2013 to work as an assistant U.S. attorney in the state’s Southern District, Cannon was widely viewed as a solid if unspectacular litigant. First in the major crimes division and later in the appellate division, colleagues remember her as “bookish,” “thorough” and “courteous,” capable of handling complicated cases while not attempting to hog credit for the outcome. Cannon was now married to a restaurant executive, Josh Lorence; was a mother to two young children; and was not regarded as an ambitious climber in South Florida’s legal circles.
Still, after a seat became vacant on the U.S. District Court for Florida’s Southern District in summer 2017, word eventually reached both the office of Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., and the Trump White House Counsel’s Office — exactly how, no one seems to remember — that a certain prospective replacement checked a number of boxes. The lawyer in question was female. She was young. She was of Cuban heritage. She was conservative. She had a top-tier law school pedigree. She possessed unimpeachable legal credentials and no skeletons in her closet, nor even the remotest paper trail.
There was an additional benefit to Cannon, according to two people familiar with the judicial nominations process during the Trump era: She and her husband lived in Vero Beach, a short commute to the mausoleumlike courthouse in Fort Pierce that had recently been vacated by Judge Robin Rosenberg. It was a somewhat scruffy outpost that other potential nominees were reluctant to relocate to.
In June 2019, Rubio’s staff contacted Cannon and urged her to apply for the vacant seat. She did so that month. On Nov. 12, 2020, five days after The Associated Press declared that Trump had been defeated by Joe Biden, Cannon was confirmed by a vote of 56-21. Fittingly, her ascent received almost no notice.
Her History on the Bench
Cannon’s ruling in September — when she decreed that a special master would decide which, if any, of the government documents seized at Trump’s private club could be perused by Justice Department officials — has prompted the parsing of her history on the bench for portents.
But as is the case with most jurists, her rulings offer a mixed narrative. Last year, she sentenced Paul Hoeffer, who had pleaded guilty after placing threatening phone calls to prominent Democrats to 18 months in prison, less than half of what federal prosecutors had recommended. Hoeffer’s calls had included one to former Speaker Nancy Pelosi, whom he vowed to behead.
That same year, Cannon also awarded a lighter sentence than requested by prosecutors to a three-time felon who had thrown a chair at a federal officer during a trial while threatening to kill him. In April, Cannon denied a motion by a former Florida Republican congressman, David Rivera, to vacate a $456,000 fine he was ordered to pay for violating Federal Election Commission guidelines. Rivera has appealed her decision to the 11th Circuit.
In interviews, three Florida lawyers who have tried cases before Cannon described her as evenhanded, soft-spoken but firm, and well prepared. A different question, they acknowledged, is whether she is up to officiating a first-of-its-kind criminal case that could very well make the O.J. Simpson murder trial resemble a bird-watching convention.
One of the Florida lawyers, Jeffrey Garland, who is based in Fort Pierce, noted that the area’s conservative jury pool gives Trump a decided advantage but that Cannon would still be accorded the leeway to steer them. “In federal court, the judge is going to give them the laws to follow,” Garland said. “And what she gives them is very likely going to strongly influence the outcome of the jury’s fact-finding.”
To those who have long known her, such as Alejandro Miyar, a Miami-based lawyer and former Obama administration official who graduated with Cannon from Ransom Everglades, being up to the task does not mean that she is likely to relish her moment as the center of attention.
“I can’t think of any world in which she would want to make this case about her,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Private Colleges; High Achievement; Presidents; High School Seniors; Judges; Parents; Mothers; Fathers; Place of Residence

Subject: Nominations; College campuses; Trials; Public prosecutors; Political campaigns; Court hearings & proceedings; Presidents; Legal defense; Federal court decisions; Legal arguments; Classified information; Political advertising; Judges & magistrates

Location: New York; United States--US; Everglades; Florida

People: Cannon, Aileen

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Weddings And Engagements; United States Politics And Government; Schlapp, Mercedes; Desantis, Ron; Fort Pierce (Fla); Raf's (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Primaries And Caucuses; Obama, Barack; Senate; Fines (Penalties); El Nuevo Herald; Restaurants; Florida; New York State Criminal Case Against Trump (71543 23); Federal Election Commission; United States; Miami Herald; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Miami (Fla); Conservatism (Us Politics); Vero Beach (Fla); Justice Department; Elections; Presidential Election Of 2020; Politics And Government; Ex Convicts; Appeals Courts (Us); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Classified Information And State Secrets; Law Schools; Luttig, J Michael; Puerto Rico; Fugitives; Simpson, O J; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Cannon, Aileen M; Presidential Election Of 2024; Threats And Threatening Messages; Decisions And Verdicts; Bribery And Kickbacks; Michigan; Executives And Management (Theory); Federal State Relations (Us); Advertising And Marketing; Des Moines (Iowa); Veterans; Law And Legislation; Cuba; Colgate Palmolive Company; Democratic Party; Atlanta (Ga); Coconut Grove (Miami, Fla); Duke University; Senate Committee On The Judiciary; Education (K 12); Delta Air Lines Inc; United States Navy; Birds; United States Defense And Military Forces; Havana (Cuba); Newspapers; Private And Sectarian Schools; Everglades (Fla); Republican Party; In diana; Rubio, Marco; United States International Relations; Latin America; Rivera, David Mauricio; Federalist Society; Trump, Donald J; Compensation For Damages (Law); Federal Courts (Us); Coronavirus Delta Variant; Federal Criminal Case Against Trump (Documents Case); Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Nuevo Herald; Associated Press; Appointments And Executive Changes; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; New York Times; University Of Michigan; Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher; Colombia; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Red Lobster Restaurants

Title: An Untested Judge in the Trump Documents Case

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-22T01:19:01Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840402203

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/untested-judge-trump-documents-case/docview/2840402203/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Trustee's Collection Unsettles the Met: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom

Publication info: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trustees-collection-unsettles-met/docview/2838545113/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shelby White has given the museum generous gifts and 33 years of service as a trustee. But investigators recently seized many of her ancient artifacts, including 17 that were on loan to the Met.
The exhibition was a major one, featuring nearly 200 ancient artifacts from around the world, including Neolithic marbles and imposing Roman bronzes, and its title, "Glories of the Past," was appropriately grand.
"These are not the holdings of a large museum," Philippe de Montebello, then the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, wrote in his introduction to the 1990 show, "but, in fact, a panoply of treasures assembled with relentless perseverence, according to a very personal vision."
Indeed, they had all come from a single private collection owned by Shelby White and her husband Leon Levy, who would soon play even larger roles in the life of the museum.
White became a Met trustee that year and later joined the committee that advises the museum on what pieces to acquire. Most notably, she and her husband gave the Met $ 20 million, and in 2007, four years after Levy's death, the museum opened a monumental new gallery for Greek and Roman art: the Leon Levy and Shelby White Court.
But recently the couple's conduct as collectors has drawn heightened scrutiny. Investigators from the Manhattan District Attorney's office have carted away 71 looted artifacts from White's home in the past two years, though they have not suggested that she or her husband knowingly bought stolen antiquities.
In fact, investigators would later thank White, 84, for her cooperation, as artifacts were returned to multiple countries, including Yemen, Turkey and Italy. But in June 2021 they showed up, unannounced, with a search warrant at her spacious Sutton Place apartment in Manhattan at 6 a.m. The rooms inside were filled with antiquities, some of which had been purchased from dealers who would later be accused of trafficking in illicit artifacts. Many were displayed in their own nooks or cabinets, and set off by lighting that enhanced their appeal.
"It is literally a museum," said Matthew Bogdanos, the head of the district attorney's Antiquities Trafficking Unit, which visited the apartment several times.
From the Met itself, investigators seized another 17 antiquities on loan from White, asserting that they, too, had been stolen. One, a Chinese funerary artifact, had been in storage at the museum for more than 20 years but had never been displayed. When investigators opened its crate, the artifact was still caked with dirt, a clear indication, Bogdanos said, that it had been looted.
The seizures were a significant blow to White, not only because the items were valued at nearly $ 69 million. She is one of the most celebrated philanthropists of her generation, someone with a demonstrated zeal for preserving the treasures of the past and advancing a broader understanding of the ancient world. But critics said, given her background, they found the couple's collecting practices to have been naïve or careless.
"There is no way," said Elizabeth Marlowe, the director of the museum studies program at Colgate University, "that someone at her level of the market and her depth of collecting and her prominence at the Met, there is no way someone at that level did not know they should be asking for things like export licenses."
White's many friends and admirers dismiss the criticism, and her lawyer characterized it as unfair. But it has become an awkward moment for the museum, which has had its own collection riddled by seizures. In recent weeks, even as the Met announced a major review to ensure that its ancient holdings did not include other looted artifacts, White continued to play a significant role at the museum.
She sits on its acquisitions, buildings and finance committees where, as an emeritus trustee, she no longer votes but advises the panels. The museum's collection is still filled with dozens of antiquities that she either donated or lent. And just weeks ago, when the Met announced its new, stricter initiative on antiquities, White was appointed to a 12-member task force of trustees that will offer "their experience and counsel" to help shape the museum's collecting practices and other policies with regard to cultural property issues.
"Shelby White is a profoundly generous supporter of the Met," Max Hollein, its director, said in response to a question last month, "and she has had an enormous impact at this museum and many other institutions."
American museums survive in large part because of the financial support of trustees, but some cultural heritage experts view the museum's loyalty to White as problematic.
"If you pick a trustee whose financial generosity is the most important factor, then fine," said Patty Gerstenblith, an expert on cultural heritage issues and a professor at DePaul University College of Law. "But should a trustee be a model of conduct when it pertains to the purpose of the museum itself? Her collecting practices do not fit the model of how a museum should be pursuing knowledge and preserving the historical record."
White declined to be interviewed in recent weeks, as her lawyer, Peter A. Chavkin, fielded questions on her behalf. He said in a statement that White and Levy had acquired objects "in good faith, at public auction and from dealers they believed to be reputable."
"If an item in her collection was shown to have been wrongfully taken by others," Chavkin said, "Ms. White has expeditiously and voluntarily returned it to its rightful place of origin."
But critics say that White appears to have done little to review the hundreds of artifacts she owned in the years since once-trusted dealers she and her husband had done business with were accused of handling illicit items.
"Instead, she held on to them," said Christos Tsirogiannis, a forensic archaeologist and head of illicit antiquities research at the Ionian University in Greece who helped the Manhattan investigators identify some of the White objects recently seized.
The museum, similarly, does not seem to have done much to review items it had or would get from White after a host of her artifacts were returned in 2008 to Italy and Greece.
The Met says it is now paying closer attention.
"The Met has been very public in acknowledging that new information brought to light by law enforcement and others has precipitated our decision to devote additional resources to provenance research," Ken Weine, a Met spokesman, said in a statement. The measures introduced include requiring new loans of antiquities to have provenance going back to 1970.
Many Kudos, and Critics
It is difficult to overstate White's contributions to the arts and to the study of ancient civilizations. Though not an archaeologist by trade, she developed a passion for the study of antiquity. A writer who has focused on financial matters for publications like Forbes and The New York Times, she has also occasionally written about her collecting and philanthropy. Her 1992 book, "What Every Woman Should Know About Her Husband's Money," is a financial survival guide geared to female readers.
Beyond their collecting, White and her husband, a hedge fund pioneer, financed excavations at an important site in Israel. White went on digs herself and the couple established a program at Harvard to support the publication of archaeological work.
After her husband's death, White created a foundation in his name that has made sizable gifts to, among others, the Brooklyn Museum, the New York Botanical Garden and Lincoln Center. In 2006 she gave $ 200 million to New York University to help create the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, which operates in a townhouse her foundation bought near the Met.
In 2017, in something of a crowning recognition, White was awarded the Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy. The citation noted that "the multifaceted breadth of her giving is ever evolving."
But even as she and her husband built a reputation for generosity, their collecting drew criticism.
White and Levy had begun amassing their extensive collection of more than 700 antiquities in the 1970s. At that time, to curb looting, countries were beginning to adopt guidelines that discouraged the trade in items that lacked ownership histories dating back to at least 1970. But a good bit of time would pass before museums, dealers and private collectors fully embraced the new practice, and White and Levy, like many others, took in objects with limited provenance.
Beginning in 1993, the couple agreed to relinquish 16 items after claims they had been looted from an ancient Roman site in England. In 2008, White surrendered 10 objects to Italy and two to Greece. Italian investigators had traced several of them to Giacomo Medici, an Italian accused in 2004 of trafficking in illegal antiquities, and White and her husband had bought some of these same ones from Robin Symes, a prominent British antiquities dealer who later became embroiled in a series of investigations into looted art.
One of the returned items was a much-celebrated antiquity, a vessel with scenes of Zeus and Herakles, attributed to the fifth-century B.C. painter Eucharides. It had been part of the "Glories of the Past" exhibition at the Met in 1990.
"It's astonishing that so many pieces from that exhibition have now gone back to Italy, Greece, Turkey, and so on," said David Gill, an archaeologist and a fellow with the Centre for Heritage at the University of Kent in England.
For all the understanding of the ancient world that White had fostered, her ambitious collecting upset some archaeologists who thought it helped create a market that encouraged looting. When objects were wrenched from their original context, they complained, it undermined the very understanding of antiquity that she was trying to develop.
In 2006, a professor at N.Y.U. resigned from the university's Center for Ancient Studies to protest the founding of the new ancient studies graduate institute financed by White.
"This is not a small issue cropping up by a few malcontents," the professor, Randall White, said at the time. "This is something we fight daily to try to preserve the archaeological record."
Officials at Bryn Mawr College in Pennsylvania and at the University of Cincinnati discouraged their scholars from accepting money from an archaeology fund White and Levy had established.
"We didn't want to validate their philanthropy when it grew out of so much plundering," said James C. Wright, professor emeritus and former chair of the department of classical and Near Eastern archaeology at Bryn Mawr.
White did not wither from the criticism. Instead, she defended her approach, noting in published essays and interviews the extent to which she had exhibited her collection, a transparency that she said not only expanded public understanding of antiquity but also exposed her artifacts to scrutiny. "I'm not hiding things," she told The Times in 2005. "If it turns out there is something I shouldn't have bought, I will act appropriately."
Though she had no interest in collecting stolen objects, White said it was unfair to apply new standards to objects bought decades ago when even museums didn't require full provenances.
"In the '90s, there was talk about provenance, but that meant different things" to different people, Ms. White told The New York Sun in a 2007 interview. "Even today, what is considered an acceptable provenance is unclear and changing."
A New Era
White is hardly alone in having items from her collection seized as looted by authorities. Other wealthy collectors, like the financier Michael Steinhardt, who shared a similar interest in both the ancient world and cultural philanthropy, have been forced to return dozens of items.
But few have had such a central role at an American museum at a time when such institutions are facing what some experts would call an evolved understanding on collecting best practices. Others would call it a reckoning.
"She is emblematic of the whole changed landscape over the last three to four decades," said Marlowe, the Colgate professor. "The cozy way of thinking about collecting antiquities has changed radically."
Some experts, however, say it is too harsh to judge White today by a changed set of collecting mores, especially given all of the work she has done to expand an understanding of ancient civilizations.
"Shelby White is a scholar," said Montebello, the Met's former director, "who bought antiquities in good faith out of a real love and knowledge of the art and, most importantly, she did not put them away for her sole enjoyment but shared them with a wide public, lending generously to exhibitions worldwide and displaying the core of her collection in a solo show at the Met."
He noted how open White had been to returning items when evidence of their questionable origins arose.
Other experts, however, point to a long fight Turkey waged for the return of the top half of a marble statue called the "Weary Herakles," after spotting it in the "Glories of the Past" exhibit at the Met. Independent experts viewed Turkey's evidence as strong, but White, Levy and the Museum of Fine Arts Boston, who jointly owned the statue, balked at the return. The couple argued that they had bought it in good faith. White turned over full ownership to the museum in 2004, and it was finally returned to Turkey in 2011.
In the case of the most recent seizures, investigators said their interest in White's collection grew when her and Levy's names kept showing up in the books of antiquities dealers who had come under investigation.
After the most recent seizures from the Met, the Manhattan District Attorney's office announced that its investigation into her collection had concluded. Bogdanos, the assistant district attorney, said that his team could still go back to examine other items she holds, but that at this point there is no reason to believe they are problematic.
"If tomorrow somebody comes forward, or if we find someone and they give us evidence, then we go right back," Bogdanos said.
For some scholars, White's passion for preserving treasures of the past and what they view as her collecting miscues are a confounding mix born of a perhaps noble, but misguided set of impulses. It is clear from White's essays and interviews that she views the collector who brings antiquities into public view as a kind of champion of expanded understanding. It's not clear, these scholars said, that she acknowledges how much voracious collecting can at the same time incentivize looting at ancient sites.
"I don't think," said Gerstenblith, "the good works, the support of archaeological work, outweigh the harm that she caused."
Photograph Shelby White, a Metropolitan Museum of Art trustee, has donated millions to the museum. But in recent years, investigators found 71 looted artifacts at her home, though they have not suggested that she knowingly bought stolen antiquities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MENAHEM KAHANA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (C1); Some of the artifacts in Shelby White's collection that were seized after the authorities determined that they had been looted before White and her husband acquired them. White is a Metropolitan Museum of Art trustee and a museum benefactor. The objects are, from left, a dinos, or mixing bowl; an amphora by the potter Nikosthenes; and a psykter, or vase. All date to the sixth century B.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE); Above, one of two seventh-century stone funerary artifacts belonging to White that was once on loan to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Both were seized from the museum this year and returned to China. Below, the Leon Levy and Shelby White Court opened in 2007 as a centerpiece of the Met's Greek and Roman galleries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE; SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Historic artifacts; Investigations; Philanthropy; Looting; Archaeology; Search warrants; Cultural heritage; Provenance; Ancient civilizations

Location: Italy; Greece; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/17/arts/design/shelby-white-the-met-antiquities-investigation.html

Title: A Trustee's Collection Unsettles the Met:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 18, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2838545113

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trustees-collection-unsettles-met/docview/2838545113/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Puny Power of 'Woke Capitalism': [Op-Ed]

Author: Polgreen, Lydia

Publication info: Polgreen, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/puny-power-woke-capitalism/docview/2837664240/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Early last year, the musician India.Arie posted a video on her Instagram that caused a lot of headaches for my then-employer, Spotify. It was a mash-up of the many times Spotify's star podcaster, Joe Rogan, had used a racial slur for Black people on his show. I don't need to tell you which slur it was. Unsurprisingly, the video quickly went viral, and a huge uproar ensued.
Rogan had already stirred up controversy by airing Covid misinformation and interviews with transphobic speakers. For Spotify, a company based in Sweden (the supposed mecca of social democracy) that serves entertainment to a largely young, socially conscious consumer base and employs a young, socially conscious work force, you'd think it would be obvious -- if you were to listen to the characterization common from conservative politicians and "heterodox" pundits -- what would happen next. The dictates of "woke capitalism" would surely require a ritual sacrifice of Rogan, despite the huge sums Spotify had paid to bring his show exclusively to its platform. It wouldn't matter that he was the company's No. 1 podcaster. The woke mob had spoken!
Needless to say, that's not how things went. Rogan apologized in a long Instagram video, and Spotify's response was not to pull the plug on his show and torpedo the interests of the company's shareholders. Spotify stood by its star (even as several episodes were quietly removed). It also announced a $ 100 million fund to support underrepresented artists and podcasters. But, according to Bloomberg, a year later the company had spent less than 10 percent of the money.
Behold, the puny power of woke capitalism!
I have been thinking about this incident as I have watched ferocious campaigns building against companies that take even the most milquetoast stands on social and cultural issues, especially those involving gender and sexuality. It reached a peak last month with Pride, leaving a wake of social media videos of people outraged about things like onesies and koozies emblazoned with rainbows.
These fights won't stop with the end of Pride month. They are merely the skirmishes in what is likely to be a long culture war fueled by outrage about everything from the casting of a Black actor as Ariel in Disney's live-action remake of "The Little Mermaid" to investment funds including a modicum of concern about diversity and inclusion in deciding where to put their billions.
"Woke capital" is already a major theme of the Republican presidential race. The threat is apparently so great that Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida invoked Winston Churchill's famous Dunkirk speech, substituting "woke" for the Axis powers as enemy No. 1: "We will wage a war on the woke. We will fight the woke in education, we will fight the woke in the corporations, we will fight the woke in the halls of Congress." Vivek Ramaswamy is couching much of his campaign in the themes of his 2021 book, "Woke, Inc.," an excoriation of so-called woke capitalism that is somehow to blame not just for America's social woes, but its economic problems, too.
This hyping of the power of socially conscious capitalism is understandable given how aggressively the notion has been sold to companies and consumers. Research studies, many of them conducted by companies that advise businesses on corporate social responsibility, have touted the power of "purpose" to drive consumer loyalty.
Color me skeptical. Consumers make choices for many reasons: price, convenience and marketing. Maybe politics. The other day I went to my local Walgreens to buy toothpaste and ultimately chose not my favorite brand but the only one that wasn't under lock and key. I didn't want to wait for an employee to liberate the Colgate, so Crest it was. Needless to say, I did not use Google to find out which brand was more committed to bodily autonomy. What can I say? I was in a hurry.
My somewhat jaundiced view of the possibilities and perils of woke capitalism was shaped by seeing some of this play out from inside the corporate suite, albeit in the limited context of media and tech companies, running the editorial and business ends of a podcast company at Spotify and a global news organization, HuffPost, when it was owned by Verizon Media.
I have bad news for combatants on both sides of this war. For those on the left who take comfort in seeing big companies take bold stands on issues they care about, I'm here to tell you that those companies care much more about their bottom line than your beloved issue (see Spotify example above).
And those on the right who feel that the wind is at their back with successful boycotts of "woke" brands are likely to be disappointed for similar reasons. Even this year's big success -- a boycott of Bud Light after it worked with a transgender influencer as part of a broader social media campaign that apparently caused the stock of the brewing giant Anheuser-Busch to drop -- was a Pyrrhic victory: It is all but impossible to find beer companies that don't participate in celebrating Pride, thereby doing exactly what the right accuses them of: pushing a liberal agenda antithetical to conservative mores.
It turns out queer consumers and their allies are important to companies' bottom line, and -- especially in a tight labor market -- companies can hardly afford to alienate queer workers and their families and supporters. Even after getting dinged by conservative consumers and gay rights activists, Bud Light pledged to keep supporting queer businesses.
These fights disguise a bigger truth: Corporations, far from dictating cultural mores from some capitalist Mount Olympus, reflect and co-opt the social trends around them.
In 2018, as the Black Lives Matter movement gathered force, Nike created a controversial ad campaign with Colin Kaepernick, the Black football player who famously knelt during the national anthem to protest police racism and brutality toward Black civilians. The backlash was huge, but ultimately the social tide went in Nike's favor: Its stock price popped and the advertising campaign was seen as a bold success.
But corporations can also shift course, quite seamlessly, when the mood changes.
At Cannes Lions, an advertising festival held each June in the South of France, members of this year's jury that hands out awards for ad campaigns were instructed to steer clear of politics and celebrate work that was more focused on commercial success, Semafor reported.
This is a remarkable turnaround. I attended the festival a couple of times in my years as a media executive, and it often seemed like a competition to see what company could out-do-gooder the rest. It reminded me of a line from the HBO comedy "Silicon Valley," in which a tech executive declares, "I don't want to live in a world where someone else is making the world a better place better than we are."
After the murder of George Floyd, companies fell all over themselves to embrace Black causes. Some actions were gestures that cost nothing, like music streaming services observing a period of silence. Content companies pledged to increase their programming for, by and about Black people. Many businesses made pledges to diversify hiring, especially in their executive ranks.
But the evidence so far shows little progress on these pledges. Netflix, the once unstoppable juggernaut that seemed likely to eat Hollywood for breakfast, is an interesting case in point. As its growth has slowed and the political climate has changed, it reportedly shelved a plan to produce an anti-racist video series. A look at its published diversity and inclusion track record shows a small decline in the proportion of Black employees generally and executives in particular.
Thomas Frank, a historian and journalist who has chronicled the culture wars for decades, told me that he "always suspected that the backlash politics that rolled over the country in the late '60s and all through the 1970s came, at least in part, from the way commercial culture rubbed the noses of Middle America in coolness and in Middle America's own inadequacy and uncoolness. But the political backlash that resulted didn't hurt the corporations at all -- on the contrary, they eventually just changed their marketing approach to fit the new mood and then entered a golden age with Reagan and the 1980s."
The center left has been lulled by its seeming cultural power, which buttresses the belief that progress is inevitable if the time frame is elongated enough. In a world with "RuPaul's Drag Race," "How could we be talking about locking up drag queens?" we gasp.
The deeper problem is that our politics is not responsive to people's preferences. Our systems of government increasingly favor electoral minorities -- like gerrymandered state legislatures in a polarized environment -- rather than common-sense compromise. This leads to ideological zealotry. There are almost no checks on a state legislature bent on maximum cruelty.
In this atmosphere it is not that surprising that progressive consumers have turned to corporations to be a mirror of their concerns. Despite clear majority support for abortion rights and L.G.B.T.Q. rights, we are tilting ever more toward a system that allows a fanatical minority to impose its views as law. It's easier for us to hold corporations accountable than politicians. We make decisions about how to spend our money every day. Best-case scenario is you vote in new officials every couple of years.
But woke capitalism is a paper tiger. Companies embrace identity and cultural inclusion as a way to expand their market share to new communities while obscuring their raw political power and the ruthless underpinning realities of shareholder capitalism. Elites on the right, meanwhile, know very well that it is a paper tiger but are more than happy to play along with a shuck and jive that allows them to wield "woke" as a cudgel against the left -- and for some voters, it does the vital job of stoking resentment.
Following the dictates of plain old capitalism, Spotify choosing to stand by Joe Rogan, once the company had signed him up as an exclusive podcaster, was a good business decision. But the decision also made business sense for other reasons. It meant that if a right-wing mob came for queer programming on the platform, the company could point to that decision as it defends hosting podcasts that my colleagues made, stuff like "The Two Princes," a fantasy show for kids about two princes who fall in love, and "Gay Pride & Prejudice," a modern take on the Jane Austen classic. A simple policy of consistency about free speech within defined limits rather than appeals to the extremes of the culture wars is, frankly, better for everyone.
Above all, these partisan spats over politics and business serve as a useful reminder for everyone across the political spectrum: Corporations are not your friends. They do not represent your interests. Yield to their power at your own peril.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page SR8.

Subject: Social responsibility; Brand loyalty; Culture; Consumers; Political activism; Success; Black people; Social networks; State elections; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Capitalism; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Social responsibility Brand loyalty Consumers Social networks Capitalism Breweries

Company / organization: Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/12/opinion/woke-capitalism-diversity-lgbt-companies -pride.html

Title: The Puny Power of 'Woke Capitalism':   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 16, 2023

column: Lydia Polgreen

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2837664240

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/puny-power-woke-capitalism/docview/2837664240/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harvard Faces Complaint Over Legacy Admissions: [National Desk]

Author: Saul, Stephanie

Publication info: Saul, Stephanie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harvard-faces-complaint-over-legacy-admissions/docview/2832667255/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After the Supreme Court banned race-conscious affirmative action, activists filed a complaint, saying legacy admissions helped students who are overwhelmingly rich and white.
It's been called affirmative action for the rich: Harvard's special admissions treatment for students whose parents are alumni, or whose relatives donated money. And in a complaint filed on Monday, a legal activist group demanded that the federal government put an end to it, arguing that fairness was even more imperative after the Supreme Court last week severely limited race-conscious admissions.
Three Boston-area groups requested that the Education Department review the practice, saying the college's admissions policies discriminated against Black, Hispanic and Asian applicants, in favor of less qualified white candidates with alumni and donor connections.
"Why are we rewarding children for privileges and advantages accrued by prior generations?" asked Ivan Espinoza-Madrigal, executive director of Lawyers for Civil Rights, which is handling the case. "Your family's last name and the size of your bank account are not a measure of merit, and should have no bearing on the college admissions process."
The complaint from liberal groups comes days after a conservative group, Students for Fair Admissions, won its Supreme Court case. And it adds to accelerating pressure on Harvard and other selective colleges to eliminate special preferences for the children of alumni and donors.
The Office for Civil Rights of the Education Department, which would review the complaint, may already be gearing up to investigate. In a statement after the Supreme Court decision, President Biden said he would ask the department to examine "practices like legacy admissions and other systems that expand privilege instead of opportunity."
A spokeswoman for Harvard, Nicole Rura, said the school would have no comment on the complaint, but reiterated a statement from last week: "As we said, in the weeks and months ahead, the university will determine how to preserve our essential values, consistent with the court's new precedent."
Colleges argue that the practice helps build community and encourages donations, which can be used for financial aid.
A poll released last year by the Pew Research Center found that an increasing share of the public -- 75 percent -- believed that legacy preferences should not be a factor in who was admitted to college.
And the call for eliminating legacy and donor preferences has grown recently across the political spectrum.
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, tweeted that if the Supreme Court "was serious about their ludicrous 'colorblindness' claims, they would have abolished legacy admissions, aka affirmative action for the privileged."
On "The Faulkner Focus," a Fox News program, Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina and a presidential candidate, said, "One of the things that Harvard could do to make that even better is to eliminate any legacy programs where they have preferential treatment for legacy kids."
Peter Arcidiacono, a Duke University economist who has analyzed Harvard data, found that a typical white legacy applicant's chances of being admitted increase fivefold over a typical, white non-legacy applicant.
Even so, eliminating legacy preferences at Harvard, the study said, would not offset the loss in diversity if race-conscious admissions were also eliminated.
In its decision on race-conscious admissions, some Supreme Court justices criticized legacy admissions. Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, in an opinion concurring with the court's majority, took aim at preferences for the children of donors and alumni, saying: "They are no help to applicants who cannot boast of their parents' good fortune or trips to the alumni tent all their lives. While race-neutral on their face, too, these preferences undoubtedly benefit white and wealthy applicants the most."
In her dissenting opinion, Justice Sonia Sotomayor referred to legacy admissions, arguing that continuing race-based preferences was only fair in light of the fact that most of the pieces in the admissions puzzle "disfavor underrepresented racial minorities."
While Colorado adopted a law in 2021 banning legacy admissions in public universities, legislation in Congress and several other states has gained little traction.
A New York bill filed last year was opposed by the state's private school association, the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, which includes highly selective colleges such as Columbia, Cornell and Colgate.
In Connecticut, where lawmakers held a hearing on the issue last year, Yale was among the private schools that came out in opposition. In written testimony, Jeremiah Quinlan, Yale's dean of undergraduate admissions, called the proposed ban a government intrusion into university affairs.
Selective private universities, in particular, have been slow to eliminate legacies, with M.I.T., Johns Hopkins University and Amherst College among a few elite schools that do not use them.
In a news release last month describing its fall class, the first since the college eliminated legacy preferences, Amherst announced that the number of first-generation students in the school's fall class would be higher than ever -- 19 percent -- while the number of students who were legacies had declined to 6 percent. Previously, legacies had made up 11 percent of the class.
The complaint to the Education Department was filed by three groups -- Chica Project, African Community Economic Development of New England and Greater Boston Latino Network.
Photograph Harvard students marching to oppose the Supreme Court's recent ruling limiting race-conscious college admissions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAYANA SZYMCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A12.

ERIC Subject: Admission Criteria; College Admission; Universities

Subject: Bans; Admissions policies; Students; College admissions; Donations; Court decisions; Private schools; Civil rights; Education; Affirmative action

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/03/us/harvard-alumni-children-affirmative-action.html

Title: Harvard Faces Complaint Over Legacy Admissions:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2832667255

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harvard-faces-complaint-over-legacy-admissions/docview/2832667255/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Ti mes Company Jul 4, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harvard’s Admissions Is Challenged for Favoring Children of Alumni

Author: Saul, Stephanie

Publication info: Saul, Stephanie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harvard-s-admissions-is-challenged-favoring/docview/2832564483/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
It’s been called affirmative action for the rich: Harvard University’s special admissions treatment for students whose parents are alumni, or whose relatives donated money. And in a complaint filed Monday, a legal activist group demanded that the federal government put an end to it, arguing that fairness was even more imperative after the Supreme Court last week severely limited race-conscious admissions.
Three Boston-area groups requested that the Education Department review the practice, saying the college’s admissions policies discriminated against Black, Hispanic and Asian applicants, in favor of less qualified white candidates with alumni and donor connections.
“Why are we rewarding children for privileges and advantages accrued by prior generations?” asked Ivan Espinoza-Madrigal, executive director of Lawyers for Civil Rights, which is handling the case. “Your family’s last name and the size of your bank account are not a measure of merit, and should have no bearing on the college admissions process.”
The complaint from liberal groups comes days after a conservative group, Students for Fair Admissions, won its Supreme Court case. And it adds to accelerating pressure on Harvard and other selective colleges to eliminate special preferences for the children of alumni and donors.
The Office for Civil Rights of the Education Department, which would review the complaint, may already be gearing up to investigate. In a statement after the Supreme Court decision, President Joe Biden said he would ask the department to examine “practices like legacy admissions and other systems that expand privilege instead of opportunity.”
A spokesperson for Harvard, Nicole Rura, said the school would have no comment on the complaint, but reiterated a statement from last week: “As we said, in the weeks and months ahead, the university will determine how to preserve our essential values, consistent with the court’s new precedent.”
Colleges argue that the practice helps build community and encourages donations, which can be used for financial aid.
A poll released last year by the Pew Research Center found that an increasing share of the public — 75% — believed that legacy preferences should not be a factor in who was admitted to college.
And the call for eliminating legacy and donor preferences has grown recently across the political spectrum.
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., tweeted that if the Supreme Court “was serious about their ludicrous ‘colorblindness’ claims, they would have abolished legacy admissions, aka affirmative action for the privileged.”
On “The Faulkner Focus,” a Fox News program, Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., a presidential candidate, said, “One of the things that Harvard could do to make that even better is to eliminate any legacy programs where they have preferential treatment for legacy kids.”
Peter Arcidiacono, a Duke University economist who has analyzed Harvard data, found that a typical white legacy applicant’s chances of being admitted increase fivefold over a typical, white non-legacy applicant.
Even so, eliminating legacy preferences at Harvard, the study said, would not offset the loss in diversity if race-conscious admissions were also eliminated.
In its decision on race-conscious admissions, some Supreme Court justices criticized legacy admissions. Justice Neil Gorsuch, in an opinion concurring with the court’s majority, took aim at preferences for the children of donors and alumni, saying: “They are no help to applicants who cannot boast of their parents’ good fortune or trips to the alumni tent all their lives. While race-neutral on their face, too, these preferences undoubtedly benefit white and wealthy applicants the most.”
In her dissenting opinion, Justice Sonia Sotomayor referred to legacy admissions, arguing that continuing race-based preferences was only fair in light of the fact that most of the pieces in the admissions puzzle “disfavor underrepresented racial minorities.”
While Colorado adopted a law in 2021 banning legacy admissions in public universities, legislation in Congress and several other states has gained little traction.
A New York bill filed last year was opposed by the state’s private school association, the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, which includes highly selective colleges such as Columbia University, Cornell University and Colgate University.
In Connecticut, where lawmakers held a hearing on the issue last year, Yale University was among the private schools that came out in opposition. In written testimony, Jeremiah Quinlan, Yale’s dean of undergraduate admissions, called the proposed ban a government intrusion into university affairs.
Selective private universities, in particular, have been slow to eliminate legacies, with Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Johns Hopkins University and Amherst College among a few elite schools that do not use them.
In a news release last month describing its fall class, the first since the college eliminated legacy preferences, Amherst announced that the number of first-generation students in the school’s fall class would be higher than ever — 19% — while the number of students who were legacies had declined to 6%. Previously, legacies had made up 11% of the class.
The complaint to the Education Department was filed by three groups — Chica Project, African Community Economic Development of New England and Greater Boston Latino Network.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

ERIC Subject: Private Colleges; Private Schools; College Admission; Universities; Departments; Affirmative Action; Alumni; Educational Technology; Civil Rights; Racial Factors; Admission Criteria; Court Litigation; Schools of Education; Preferences

Subject: Bans; Admissions policies; Students; College admissions; Donations; Court decisions; Private schools; Civil rights; Education; Affirmative action

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Politics And Government; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Amherst (Mass); England; Scott, Timothy Eugene; Saul, Ste phanie; Gorsuch, Neil M; Ocasio Cortez, Alexandria; Colleges And Universities; Campaign Finance; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Harvard University; New England States (Us); Massachusetts; Banking And Financial Institutions; Minorities; Amherst College; United States; Admissions Standards; Yale University; Johns Hopkins University; Philanthropy; Presidential Election Of 2024; Decisions And Verdicts; Affirmative Action; Connecticut; Discrimination; Hispanic Americans; Law And Legislation; South Carolina; Duke University; Education (K 12); Polls And Public Opinion; Private And Sectarian Schools; Sotomayor, Sonia; Executive Compensation; Columbia University; Nepotism; Fox News Channel; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Boston (Mass); Colorado; Civil Rights And Liberties; Cornell University; Education Department (Us); Africa; Television; Students For Fair Admissions; Colgate University; Massachusetts Institute Of Technology; Supreme Court (Us); Commission On Independent Colleges And Universities

Title: Harvard’s Admissions Is Challenged for Favoring Children of Alumni

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-03T20:04:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2832564483

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harvard-s-admissions-is-challenged-favoring/docview/2832564483/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York T imes Company Jul 3, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Richard Severo, 90, a Times Reporter Involved in an Internal Clash Over a Book: [Biography]

Author: Roberts, Sam

Publication info: Roberts, Sam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/richard-severo-90-times-reporter-involved/docview/2826906704/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He challenged a company's prerogative to transfer an employee and a news organization's ability to assert publishing rights when a reporter's articles are used for a book.
Richard Severo, a prizewinning reporter for The New York Times whose challenge to what he considered a punitive transfer by the newspaper's management became a cause célèbre among journalists in the 1980s, died on June 12 at his home in Balmville, N.Y., in the Hudson Valley. He was 90.
His wife, Emóke Edith de Papp, said the cause was complications of Parkinson's disease.
Over his Times career, from 1968 to 2006, Mr. Severo won a coveted George Polk Award from Long Island University in 1975 for his reports that millions of gallons of milk produced by a New York State dairy farmers' cooperative, one of the largest in the nation, had been watered down with powdered skim milk for more than five years while being sold as whole milk. He also won a Meyer "Mike" Berger Award from Columbia University for a report about an unwed mother and the death of her child in 1977, and three Page One Awards from his union, the Newspaper Guild (now the NewsGuild) of New York.
But while reporting for The Times's science section, Mr. Severo ran afoul of his bosses when he decided to write a book drawn from his articles about a patient with neurofibromatosis -- known as Elephant Man's disease -- whose face was reconfigured after grueling surgery.
Accounts of what happened next vary, but The Times, through its publishing subsidiary Times Books, was said to have claimed first rights to the book because it was based on Mr. Severo's work for the newspaper. Mr. Severo, however, through his agent, had already begun auctioning the rights to other publishers. Times Books eventually bid $ 37,500 (about $ 110,000 in today's dollars), but Harper & Row, with an offer of $ 50,000 (about $ 145,000), won the rights.
Published in 1985 as "Lisa H: The True Story of an Extraordinary and Courageous Woman," the book was described as "an incisive account" by Eric W. Schrier in The New York Times Book Review. But by then Mr. Severo had been transferred to the metropolitan desk, which he considered a demotion and retaliation for the book deal. Top editors at The Times said the move was because they had become fed up with his constant complaining; Mr. Severo was known to be a perfectionist, uncompromising and cantankerous.
The incident set off an unusually public confrontation over a company's prerogative to transfer an employee, and to what degree a news organization can claim ownership of a reporter's articles if the reporter decides to write a book based on that work. The conflict was covered not only in the news industry, but beyond.
"Seldom at the top levels of journalism does a conflict between a reporter and his boss become so bitter and public as the case of Richard Severo versus The New York Times," Eleanor Randolph wrote in The Washington Post in 1984.
The boss was A.M. Rosenthal, the executive editor, who was considered to be comparable in temperament -- mercurial, stubborn, sometimes capricious -- to Mr. Severo.
Four years of arbitration hearings ensued, during which Mr. Severo took an unpaid leave. Along the way an internal rebellion was mounted by a cadre of Pulitzer Prize winners when management demanded that Mr. Severo hand over his diaries and other personal papers. In the end, in September 1988, an arbitrator ruled in The Times's favor.
Ending his leave, Mr. Severo returned and accepted the transfer to the metropolitan desk. He was later assigned to the obituaries desk, where he prepared many in-depth obituaries about luminaries in advance of their deaths.
(Under current Times policy, as outlined in its "Ethical Journalism" handbook, the company requires staff members intending to write a nonfiction book based on their work for The Times to notify The Times in advance, and to refrain from accepting a bid from an outside publisher until The Times decides whether to make a competitive offer for the book.)
As a Times reporter earlier in his career, Mr. Severo went undercover for four months in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx to report on the heroin trade and its impact. In 1977, he wrote a cover article for The New York Times Magazine in which he revealed that the nation's first nuclear waste reprocessing plant was leaking nuclear waste into Lake Erie. And in 1979, he detailed the impact of the herbicide Agent Orange on American troops returning from Vietnam.
During his leave of absence as the arbitration hearings went on, he wrote "The Wages of War: When America's Soldiers Came Home -- From Valley Forge to Vietnam" (1989), with Lewis Milford.
In his memoir "City Room" (2003), Arthur Gelb, a former metropolitan editor and managing editor at The Times, called Mr. Severo "one of the most gutsy reporters on my staff."
Thomas Richard Severo, who was known as Dick, was born on Nov. 22, 1932, in Newburgh, N.Y., to Thomas and Mary Theresa (Farina) Severo, Italian immigrants. His father owned a liquor store, and his mother was a homemaker.
After earning a bachelor's degree in history from Colgate University in 1954, Mr. Severo was hired as a news assistant at CBS. He went on to a series of reporting stints with The Poughkeepsie New Yorker, a now-closed Hudson Valley newspaper; The Associated Press in Newark, N.J.; The New York Herald Tribune; and The Washington Post, before The Times recruited him in 1968.
His wife, who is known as Mokey, is his only immediate survivor.
Photograph Richard Severo, with a colleague, Barbara Campbell, at work in the Times newsroom in 1969. He was a prizewinning reporter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNIE SISTO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A23.

Subject: Milk; Scandals; Journalistic ethics; Editors; Radioactive wastes; Reporters; Deaths

Location: New York; United States--US; Hudson Valley; Vietnam

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/16/business/media/richard-severo-dead.html

Title: Richard Severo, 90, a Times Reporter Involved in an Internal Clash Over a Book:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.23

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2826906704

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/ne wspapers/richard-severo-90-times-reporter-involved/docview/2826906704/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lacking Heads, Sculptures Keep Experts on Toes: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Bowley, Graham

Publication info: Bowley, Graham. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lacking-heads-sculptures-keep-experts-on-toes/docview/2825337354/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Many museums would like to match their headless torsos with their missing heads, but as a debate between Turkey and a Danish institution makes clear, it's not always so easy.
For many years, a Danish museum argued that its ancient head of the Roman emperor Septimius Severus belonged to a bronze torso at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
This sort of discovery is rare in the world of Greco-Roman statuary, where headless torsos and torso-less heads are, though ubiquitous, seldom reconnected. But the museum, the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, went so far as to arrange a loan so it could exhibit the head and body together in 1979 and even tried to buy the torso, without success.
Matters grew more complicated, though, in February when the Met was forced to return the headless statue to Turkey after investigators determined it had been looted. Turkish officials said they plan to claim the head in Copenhagen as well.
But a Danish museum official said in an interview that, contrary to its earlier belief, its 2,000-year-old head may not have been part of the statue just taken from the Met.
Rune Frederiksen, the Glyptotek's head of collections, said the museum had begun doubting the connection in recent years, based on a "reassessment of what is widely known so far already." He said numerous experts, internal and external, agree with the museum's more questioning view.
The Turkish government is, perhaps not surprisingly, skeptical of the museum's changed position. "It's very clear water," said Zeynep Boz, an official with Turkey's Ministry of Culture and Tourism, "but they are adding mud to it to cover themselves from the pressure they are coming under to return it."
The Danish museum said it has launched further research into the matter, which is expected to take two years. Whether it will be able to hold onto its Roman emperor, or whether diplomats will get involved, is unclear.
But for now, Severus remains one of the multitudes of Greek and Roman rulers, gods and everyday citizens with heads divorced from their bodies.
"Although I have no idea of the precise statistics," Kenneth Lapatin, curator of antiquities at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, wrote in an email, "today we have many more parts (bodiless heads & headless bodies) than complete statues. This is clear in any gallery of Greek & Roman art."
Headless Bodies in Top-Shelf Museums
Many heads were lost because of the wear and tear of time. Necks are quick to break when statues fall. But other, less innocent explanations for the legions of severed heads include looting and regime change.
Smugglers cleaved heads from bodies to create not one, but two, sellable artifacts. Ancient insurrectionists and invaders decapitated statues to undermine the authority of rulers who had erected images of themselves as symbols of dominion.
"Every culture in the ancient world seems to do it," said Rachel Kousser, professor of ancient art at the City University of New York. "The head is really powerful and damage to the head is seen as a particularly effective way of damaging power, whether it's a ruler or a god or even just a private dead person."
In one case, a bronze of the Emperor Augustus from around 25 B.C. was decapitated by Kushite raiders in Egypt, who then defiantly buried the severed head beneath temple steps in the Kushite capital of Meroë, in modern Sudan. The feet of multitudes trod atop the head before it was discovered in the 20th century. It is now in the British Museum.
In some cases, the removal of heads was pure pragmatism. Roman statue makers often created archetypal body types and separate, highly individualized heads. As an emperor's power or popularity waned, one head could be swapped for another. This urge to despoil images of the unpopular goes a long way toward explaining why so many statues of Nero lost their heads, said Eric R. Varner, professor of classics and art history at Emory University.
In other cases, the ancient statues just lost their noses. Early museum conservators replaced the noses with new ones, but the process was reversed in modern days as curators decided authenticity trumped appearances. (The Glyptotek in Copenhagen displays the removed, replacement noses in a collection it calls a "Nasothek.")
Some experts said they do not spend much time searching for matches, given the odds against finding one. Some focus instead on the intricacies of a finely sculpted, if severed, head.
"You can almost fetishize its details," said Elizabeth Marlowe, director of the museum studies program at Colgate University.
But as a matter of historical scholarship, linking a head to a body can help to determine whether a statue was intended to present the emperor as a hero or a god, as a warrior or a priest. The trappings of the torso, the drapery, the style of clothes -- or no clothes -- the pose and the weapons all bear clues.
So there is often rejoicing when a head and a torso find their way back to each other. "Statue of a Draped Woman," a 2,000-year-old torso, had spent almost 50 years at the Getty before a curator came across its head, a carved marble portrait of a stern-looking Roman woman in a New York gallery.
"Sometimes things fit perfectly," said Lapatin of the Getty. "Boom, it all lines up."
A Match, or a Mistake?
Severus, a wily general who outmaneuvered four rivals to assume the emperor's seat, ruled Rome from 193 A.D. until his death in 211 A.D. Seventeen centuries later, a bronze of his head ended up at the Glyptotek. The museum said it had acquired it in 1970 on the art market, but did not elaborate.
After the head came to the museum, one of its experts, Flemming Johansen, visited the Indianapolis Museum of Art where the torso, labeled as the body of Severus, was part of a show and on loan from collectors. Johansen experienced, the exhibition catalog described, "one of those rare and exciting events in the world of art history." He had, he suspected, found his head's body.
In 1975, a spectral analysis of samples from the head and the torso showed "nothing to contradict the hypothesis that the head and the body originally belonged to the same statue," according to a later catalog published by the Danish museum. Four years later, the loaned torso and the head were displayed together in Denmark. The catalog reported that at one point "there is a match of the surfaces of fracture between the head's neck and the body."
Jale Inan, a Turkish archaeologist, saw the 1979 display in Denmark and concluded head and torso were a match. She later published a photo of the statue, head attached, from that exhibit as evidence. She acknowledged that the way the head had been affixed seemed off, but described it as an aberration that had to do with the fact that, among other things, the head had been oriented to face forward, rather than partly in profile as intended.
She determined, she wrote in a 1993 paper, that the intact statue had been part of a group of bronzes set up as a shrine to the imperial cult in Bubon, an archaeological site in southwest Turkey, when the region was a distant part of the Roman Empire.
She said local farmers had acknowledged to her that they found the bronzes in the 1960s and brought them to market, which violated Turkey's cultural property law. Investigators from the Manhattan district attorney's Antiquities Trafficking Unit, which seized the torso from the Met, said they also had interviewed local farmers in Turkey who confirmed the looting. The owner of the torso, who had lent it to the Met in 2011, did not fight the return.
In the 12 years it held it, the Met never subscribed to the theory that the torso was that of Severus. The museum called the figure simply a "Bronze statue of a nude male figure" and said in a wall label that it "may depict a god, a hero, a Hellenistic ruler, or a Roman emperor."
In a statement, the Met went further, asserting it had contacted a bronze scholar years ago who said the Danish head did not seem to be a match, and that museum officials in Copenhagen also had their doubts.
The Danish museum and a Danish government website continue to post information online that links the Glyptotek's head to the torso now in Turkey. Frederiksen, the head of collections, said that information will be updated when the museum's review is completed, but, at this point, he said this evidence is no longer viewed as persuasive.
"This was strongly argued by previous colleagues of ours in the museum, but we do not -- having recently begun a first review of the question -- found any compelling evidence in this direction, which has also been the opinion by most scholars in the area since decades," he wrote in an email. Pressed to detail what had changed the museum's thinking, Frederiksen said, "The positive evidence (as far as known to us) for an association with this head to the said torso and at all to Bubon is circumstantial and weak." He said it would be premature to discuss further until the review is complete.
Turkish officials and experts like Marlowe, who have studied the Bubon artifacts, remain convinced the head was part of the statue looted from that country.
"Bubon, the site, was plundered to its bones," said Boz, the Turkish official.
To reunite the head and body, and reunite the whole group together again in Bubon is, she said, "beyond our dream."
Photograph The Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek in Copenhagen, above, has a bronze head of Septimius Severus, near left. Turkish officials say it goes with a body, far left, that was seized from the Met. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLOTTE DE LA FUENTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE) (A8) This article appeared in print on page A1, A8.

Subject: Bronze; Art galleries & museums; Historic artifacts; Art history; Looting; Archaeology; Museum exhibits; Sculpture

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; Denmark

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/12/arts/headless-statues-museums.html

Title: Lacking Heads, Sculptures Keep Experts on Toes:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825337354

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lacking-heads-sculptures-keep-experts-on-toes/docview/2825337354/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Where Are Their Heads? Hordes of Ancient Statues Pose That Puzzle

Author: Bowley, Graham

Publication info: Bowley, Graham. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-are-their-heads-hordes-ancient-statues-pose/docview/2825282060/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For many years, a Danish museum argued that its ancient head of Roman emperor Septimius Severus belonged to a bronze torso at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
This sort of discovery is rare in the world of Greco-Roman statuary, where headless torsos and torso-less heads are, though ubiquitous, seldom reconnected. But the museum, the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, went so far as to arrange a loan so it could exhibit the head and body together in 1979 and even tried to buy the torso, without success.
Matters grew more complicated, though, in February when the Met was forced to return the headless statue to Turkey after investigators determined it had been looted. Turkish officials said they plan to claim the head in Copenhagen, Denmark, as well.
But a Danish museum official said in an interview that, contrary to its earlier belief, its 2,000-year-old head may not have been part of the statue just taken from the Met.
Rune Frederiksen, the Glyptotek’s head of collections, said the museum had begun doubting the connection in recent years, based on a “reassessment of what is widely known so far already.” He said numerous experts, internal and external, agree with the museum’s more questioning view.
The Turkish government is, perhaps not surprisingly, skeptical of the museum’s changed position. “It’s very clear water,” said Zeynep Boz, an official with Turkey’s Ministry of Culture and Tourism, “but they are adding mud to it to cover themselves from the pressure they are coming under to return it.”
The Danish museum said it has launched further research into the matter, which is expected to take two years. Whether it will be able to hold onto its Roman emperor, or whether diplomats will get involved, is unclear.
But for now, Severus remains one of the multitudes of Greek and Roman rulers, gods and everyday citizens with heads divorced from their bodies.
“Although I have no idea of the precise statistics,” Kenneth Lapatin, curator of antiquities at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, wrote in an email, “today we have many more parts (bodiless heads & headless bodies) than complete statues. This is clear in any gallery of Greek & Roman art.”
Headless Bodies in Top-Shelf Museums
Many heads were lost because of the wear and tear of time. Necks are quick to break when statues fall. But other, less innocent explanations for the legions of severed heads include looting and regime change.
Smugglers cleaved heads from bodies to create not one, but two, sellable artifacts. Ancient insurrectionists and invaders decapitated statues to undermine the authority of rulers who had erected images of themselves as symbols of dominion.
“Every culture in the ancient world seems to do it,” said Rachel Kousser, professor of ancient art at the City University of New York. “The head is really powerful and damage to the head is seen as a particularly effective way of damaging power, whether it’s a ruler or a god or even just a private dead person.”
In one case, a bronze of Emperor Augustus from around 25 B.C. was decapitated by Kushite raiders in Egypt, who then defiantly buried the severed head beneath temple steps in the Kushite capital of Meroë, in modern Sudan. The feet of multitudes trod atop the head before it was discovered in the 20th century. It is now in the British Museum.
In some cases, the removal of heads was pure pragmatism. Roman statue makers often created archetypal body types and separate, highly individualized heads. As an emperor’s power or popularity waned, one head could be swapped for another. This urge to despoil images of the unpopular goes a long way toward explaining why so many statues of Nero lost their heads, said Eric R. Varner, professor of classics and art history at Emory University.
In other cases, the ancient statues just lost their noses. Early museum conservators replaced the noses with new ones, but the process was reversed in modern days as curators decided authenticity trumped appearances. (The Glyptotek in Copenhagen displays the removed, replacement noses in a collection it calls a “Nasothek.”)
Some experts said they do not spend much time searching for matches, given the odds against finding one. Some focus instead on the intricacies of a finely sculpted, if severed, head.
“You can almost fetishize its details,” said Elizabeth Marlowe, director of the museum studies program at Colgate University.
But as a matter of historical scholarship, linking a head to a body can help to determine whether a statue was intended to present the emperor as a hero or a god, as a warrior or a priest. The trappings of the torso, the drapery, the style of clothes — or no clothes — the pose and the weapons all bear clues.
So there is often rejoicing when a head and a torso find their way back to each other. “Statue of a Draped Woman,” a 2,000-year-old torso, had spent almost 50 years at the Getty before a curator came across its head, a carved marble portrait of a stern-looking Roman woman in a New York gallery.
“Sometimes things fit perfectly,” said Lapatin of the Getty. “Boom, it all lines up.”
A Match, or a Mistake?
Severus, a wily general who outmaneuvered four rivals to assume the emperor’s seat, ruled Rome from 193 A.D. until his death in 211 A.D. Seventeen centuries later, a bronze of his head ended up at the Glyptotek. The museum said it had acquired it in 1970 on the art market, but did not elaborate.
After the head came to the museum, one of its experts, Flemming Johansen, visited the Indianapolis Museum of Art where the torso, labeled as the body of Severus, was part of a show and on loan from collectors. Johansen experienced, the exhibition catalog described, “one of those rare and exciting events in the world of art history.” He had, he suspected, found his head’s body.
In 1975, a spectral analysis of samples from the head and the torso showed “nothing to contradict the hypothesis that the head and the body originally belonged to the same statue,” according to a later catalog published by the Danish museum. Four years later, the loaned torso and the head were displayed together in Denmark. The catalog reported that at one point “there is a match of the surfaces of fracture between the head’s neck and the body.”
Jale Inan, a Turkish archaeologist, saw the 1979 display in Denmark and concluded head and torso were a match. She later published a photo of the statue, head attached, from that exhibit as evidence. She acknowledged that the way the head had been affixed seemed off, but described it as an aberration that had to do with the fact that, among other things, the head had been oriented to face forward, rather than partly in profile as intended.
She determined, she wrote in a 1993 paper, that the intact statue had been part of a group of bronzes set up as a shrine to the imperial cult in Bubon, an archaeological site in southwest Turkey, when the region was a distant part of the Roman Empire.
She said local farmers had acknowledged to her that they found the bronzes in the 1960s and brought them to market, which violated Turkey’s cultural property law. Investigators from the Manhattan district attorney’s Antiquities Trafficking Unit, which seized the torso from the Met, said they also had interviewed local farmers in Turkey who confirmed the looting. The owner of the torso, who had lent it to the Met in 2011, did not fight the return.
In the 12 years it held it, the Met never subscribed to the theory that the torso was that of Severus. The museum called the figure simply a “Bronze statue of a nude male figure” and said in a wall label that it “may depict a god, a hero, a Hellenistic ruler, or a Roman emperor.”
In a statement, the Met went further, asserting it had contacted a bronze scholar years ago who said the Danish head did not seem to be a match, and that museum officials in Copenhagen also had their doubts.
The Danish museum and a Danish government website continue to post information online that links the Glyptotek’s head to the torso now in Turkey. Frederiksen, the head of collections, said that information will be updated when the museum’s review is completed, but, at this point, he said this evidence is no longer viewed as persuasive.
“This was strongly argued by previous colleagues of ours in the museum, but we do not — having recently begun a first review of the question — found any compelling evidence in this direction, which has also been the opinion by most scholars in the area since decades,” he wrote in an email. Pressed to detail what had changed the museum’s thinking, Frederiksen said, “The positive evidence (as far as known to us) for an association with this head to the said torso and at all to Bubon is circumstantial and weak.” He said it would be premature to discuss further until the review is complete.
Turkish officials and experts like Marlowe, who have studied the Bubon artifacts, remain convinced the head was part of the statue looted from that country.
“Bubon, the site, was plundered to its bones,” said Boz, the Turkish official.
To reunite the head and body, and reunite the whole group together again in Bubon is, she said, “beyond our dream.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Bronze; Art galleries & museums; Historic artifacts; Art history; Looting; Archaeology; Museum exhibits; Sculpture

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; Denmark

Company / organization: Name: Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek; NAICS: 712110

Identifier / keyword: Great Britain; Entertainment; Emory University; Museums; International Relations; Rumo rs And Misinformation; Copenhagen (Denmark); Colleges And Universities; Metropolitan Museum Of Art; Egypt; Archaeology And Anthropology; Arts; Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek; Indianapolis Museum Of Art; City University Of New York; Politics And Government; Top Shelf Recording Studio; Restoration And Renovation; Danish Americans; Roman Civilization; Art; Denmark; Rome (Italy); Scholarships And Fellowships; Nero (37 68 Ad); Smuggling; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Seventeen Gallery (Manhattan, Ny); Collectors And Collections; Vandalism; Royal Families; Bowley, Graham; United States International Relations; British Museum; Greek Civilization; Sudan; Colgate University; Getty, J Paul, Museum; Arts And Antiquities Looting

Title: Where Are Their Heads? Hordes of Ancient Statues Pose That Puzzle

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 13, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-13T22:07:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825282060

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-are-their-heads-hordes-ancient-statues-pose/docview/2825282060/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Big Companies Keep Prices Up To Save Profits: [National Desk]

Author: Talmon Joseph Smith; Rennison, Joe

Publication info: Talmon Joseph Smith; Rennison, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-companies-keep-prices-up-save-profits/docview/2820873815/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corporate profits have been bolstered by higher prices even as some of the costs of doing business have fallen in recent months.
The prices of oil, transportation, food ingredients and other raw materials have fallen in recent months as the shocks stemming from the pandemic and the war in Ukraine have faded. Yet many big businesses have continued raising prices at a rapid clip.
Some of the world's biggest companies have said they do not plan to change course and will continue increasing prices or keep them at elevated levels for the foreseeable future.
That strategy has cushioned corporate profits. And it could keep inflation robust, contributing to the very pressures used to justify surging prices.
As a result, some economists warn, policymakers at the Federal Reserve may feel compelled to keep raising interest rates, or at least not lower them, increasing the likelihood and severity of an economic downturn.
"Companies are not just maintaining margins, not just passing on cost increases, they have used it as a cover to expand margins," said Albert Edwards, a global strategist at Société Générale, referring to profit margins, a measure of how much businesses earn from every dollar of sales.
PepsiCo has become a prime example of how large corporations have countered increased costs, and then some.
Hugh Johnston, the company's chief financial officer, said in February that PepsiCo had raised its prices by enough to buffer further cost pressures in 2023. At the end of April, the company reported that it had raised the average price across its snacks and beverages by 16 percent in the first three months of the year. That added to a similar price increase in the fourth quarter of 2022 and increased its profit margin.
"I don't think our margins are going to deteriorate at all," Mr. Johnston said in a recent interview with Bloomberg TV. "In fact, what we've said for the year is we'll be at least even with 2022, and may in fact increase margins during the course of the year."
The bags of Doritos, cartons of Tropicana orange juice and bottles of Gatorade sold by PepsiCo are now substantially pricier. Customers have grumbled, but they have largely kept buying. Shareholders have cheered. PepsiCo declined to comment.
Other companies that sell consumer goods have also done well while continuing to raise prices.
The average company in the S&P 500 stock index increased its net profit margin from the end of last year, according to FactSet, a data and research firm, countering the expectations of Wall Street analysts that profit margins would decline slightly. And while margins are below their peak in 2021, analysts forecast that they will keep expanding in the second half of the year.
For much of the past two years, most companies "had a perfectly good excuse to go ahead and raise prices," said Samuel Rines, an economist and the managing director of Corbu, a research firm that serves hedge funds and other investors. "Everybody knew that the war in Ukraine was inflationary, that grain prices were going up, blah, blah, blah. And they just took advantage of that."
But those go-to rationales for elevating prices, he added, are now receding.
The Producer Price Index, which measures the prices that businesses pay for goods and services before they are sold to consumers, reached a high of 11.7 percent last spring. That rate plunged to 2.3 percent for the 12 months through April.
The Consumer Price Index, which tracks the prices of household expenditures on everything from eggs to rent, has also been falling, but at a much slower rate. In April, it dropped to 4.93 percent, from a high of 9.06 percent in June 2022. The price of carbonated drinks rose nearly 12 percent in April from 12 months earlier.
"Inflation is going to stay much higher than it needs to be, because companies are being greedy," Mr. Edwards of Société Générale said.
But analysts who distrust that explanation said there were other reasons consumer prices remained high. Since inflation spiked in the spring of 2021, some economists have made the case that as households emerged from the pandemic, demand for goods and services -- whether garage doors or cruise trips -- was left unsated because of lockdowns and constrained supply chains, driving prices higher.
David Beckworth, a senior research fellow at the right-leaning Mercatus Center at George Mason University and a former economist for the Treasury Department, said he was skeptical that the rapid pace of price increases was "profit-led."
Corporations had some degree of cover for raising prices as consumers were peppered with news about imbalances in the economy. Yet Mr. Beckworth and others contend that those higher prices wouldn't have been possible if people weren't willing or able to spend more. In this analysis, stimulus payments from the government, investment gains, pay raises and the refinancing of mortgages at very low interest rates play a larger role in higher prices than corporate profit seeking.
"It seems to me that many telling the profit story forget that households have to actually spend money for the story to hold," Mr. Beckworth said. "And once you look at the huge surge in spending, it becomes inescapable to me where the causality lies."
Mr. Edwards acknowledged that government stimulus measures during the pandemic had an effect. In his eyes, this aid meant that average consumers weren't "beaten up enough" financially to resist higher prices that might otherwise make them flinch. And, he added, this dynamic has also put the weight of inflation on poorer households "while richer ones won't feel it as much."
The top 20 percent of households by income typically account for about 40 percent of total consumer spending. Overall spending on recreational experiences and luxuries appears to have peaked, according to credit card data from large banks, but remains robust enough for firms to keep charging more. Major cruise lines, including Royal Caribbean, have continued lifting prices as demand for cruises has increased going into the summer.
Many people who are not at the top of the income bracket have had to trade down to cheaper products. As a result, several companies that cater to a broad customer base have fared better than expected, as well.
McDonald's reported that its sales increased by an average of 12.6 percent per store for the three months through March, compared with a year earlier. About 4.2 percent of that growth came from increased traffic and 8.4 percent from higher menu prices.
The company attributed the recent menu price increases to higher expenses for labor, transportation and meat. Several consumer groups have responded by pointing out that recent upticks in the cost of transportation and labor have eased.
A representative for McDonald's said in an email that the company's strong results were not just a result of price increases but also "strong consumer demand for McDonald's around the world."
Other corporations have found that fewer sales at higher prices have still helped them earn bigger profits, a dynamic that Mr. Rines of Corbu has coined "price over volume."
Colgate-Palmolive, which in addition to commanding a roughly 40 percent share of the global toothpaste market sells kitchen soap and other goods, had a standout first quarter. Its operating profit for the year through March rose 6 percent from a year earlier -- the result of a 12 percent increase in prices even as volume declined by 2 percent.
The recent bonanza for corporate profits, however, may soon start to fizzle.
Research from Glenmede Investment Management indicates there are signs that more consumers are cutting back on pricier purchases. The financial services firm estimates that households in the bottom fourth by income will exhaust whatever is collectively left of their pandemic-era savings sometime this summer.
Some companies are beginning to find resistance from more price-sensitive customers. Dollar Tree reported rising sales but falling margins, as lower-income customers who tend to shop there searched for deals. Shares in the company plunged on Thursday as it cut back its profit expectations for the rest of the year. Even PepsiCo and McDonald's have recently taken hits to their share prices as traders fear that they may not be able to keep increasing their profits.
For now, though, investors appear to be relieved that corporations did as well as they did in the first quarter, which has helped keep stock prices from falling broadly.
Before large companies began reporting how they did in the first three months of the year, the consensus among analysts was that earnings at companies in the S&P 500 would fall roughly 7 percent from a year earlier. Instead, according to data from FactSet, earnings are expected to have fallen around 2 percent once all the results are in.
Savita Subramanian, the head of U.S. equity and quantitative strategy at Bank of America, wrote in a note that the latest quarterly reports "once again showed corporate America's ability to preserve margins." Her team raised overall earnings growth expectations for the rest of the year, and 2024.
Photograph Grocery shopping in Manhattan. Though customers may grumble at high prices, they are still buying, rewarding shareholders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A13.

Subject: Profit margins; Consumers; Inflation; Interest rates; Consumer Price Index; Cost control; Corporate profits; Price increases; Earnings; Households; Pandemics; Economic conditions

Business indexing term: Subject: Profit margins Consumers Inflation Interest rates Consumer Price Index Cost control Corporate profits Price increases Earnings Economic conditions

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/30/business/economy/inflation-companies-profits-higher-prices.html

Title: Big Companies Keep Prices Up To Save Profits:   [N ational Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 31, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820873815

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-companies-keep-prices-up-save-profits/docview/2820873815/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Companies Push Prices Higher, Protecting Profits but Adding to Inflation

Author: Talmon Joseph Smith; Rennison, Joe

Publication info: Talmon Joseph Smith; Rennison, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/companies-push-prices-higher-protecting-profits/docview/2820689870/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The prices of oil, transportation, food ingredients and other raw materials have fallen in recent months as the shocks stemming from the pandemic and the war in Ukraine have faded. Yet many big businesses have continued raising prices at a rapid clip.
Some of the world’s biggest companies have said they do not plan to change course and will continue increasing prices or keep them at elevated levels for the foreseeable future.
That strategy has cushioned corporate profits. And it could keep inflation robust, contributing to the very pressures used to justify surging prices.
As a result, some economists warn, policymakers at the Federal Reserve may feel compelled to keep raising interest rates, or at least not lower them, increasing the likelihood and severity of an economic downturn.
“Companies are not just maintaining margins, not just passing on cost increases. They have used it as a cover to expand margins,” Albert Edwards, a global strategist at Société Générale, said, referring to profit margins, a measure of how much businesses earn from every dollar of sales.
PepsiCo has become a prime example of how large corporations have countered increased costs, and then some.
Hugh Johnston, the company’s chief financial officer, said in February that PepsiCo had raised its prices by enough to buffer further cost pressures in 2023. At the end of April, the company reported it had raised the average price across its products by 16% in the first three months of the year. That added to a similar size price increase in the fourth quarter of 2022 and increased its profit margin.
“I don’t think our margins are going to deteriorate at all,” Johnston said in a recent interview with Bloomberg TV. “In fact, what we’ve said for the year is we’ll be at least even with 2022 and may, in fact, increase margins during the course of the year.”
The snacks and beverages sold by PepsiCo are now substantially pricier. Customers have grumbled, but they have largely kept buying. Shareholders have cheered. PepsiCo declined to comment.
Other companies that sell consumer goods have also done well while continuing to raise prices.
The average company in the S&P 500 stock index increased its net profit margin from the end of last year, according to FactSet, a data and research firm, countering the expectations of Wall Street analysts that profit margins would decline slightly. And although margins are below their peak in 2021, analysts forecast that they will keep expanding in the second half of the year.
For much of the past two years, most companies “had a perfectly good excuse to go ahead and raise prices,” said Samuel Rines, an economist and the managing director of Corbu, a research firm that serves hedge funds and other investors. “Everybody knew that the war in Ukraine was inflationary, that grain prices were going up, blah, blah, blah. And they just took advantage of that.”
But those go-to rationales for elevating prices, he added, are now receding.
The producer price index, which measures the prices businesses pay for goods and services before they are sold to consumers, reached a high of 11.7% last spring. That rate plunged to 2.3% for the 12 months through April.
The consumer price index, which tracks the prices of household expenditures on everything from eggs to rent, has also been falling, but at a much slower rate. In April, it dropped to 4.93%, from a high of 9.06% last June. The price of carbonated drinks rose nearly 12% in April from 12 months earlier.
“Inflation is going to stay much higher than it needs to be, because companies are being greedy,” Edwards of Société Générale said.
But analysts who distrust that explanation said there were other reasons consumer prices remained high. Since inflation spiked in the spring of 2021, some economists have made the case that as households emerged from the pandemic, demand for goods and services — whether garage doors or cruise trips — was left unsated because of lockdowns and constrained supply chains, driving prices higher.
David Beckworth, a senior research fellow at the right-leaning Mercatus Center at George Mason University and a former economist for the Treasury Department, said he was skeptical that the rapid pace of price increases was “profit-led.”
Corporations had some degree of cover for raising prices as consumers were peppered with news about imbalances in the economy. Yet Beckworth and others contend that those higher prices wouldn’t have been possible if people weren’t willing or able to spend more. In this analysis, stimulus payments from the government, investment gains, pay raises and the refinancing of mortgages at very low interest rates play a larger role in higher prices than corporate profit seeking.
“It seems to me that many telling the profit story forget that households have to actually spend money for the story to hold,” Beckworth said. “And once you look at the huge surge in spending, it becomes inescapable to me where the causality lies.”
Edwards acknowledged that government stimulus measures during the pandemic had an effect. In his eyes, this aid meant that average consumers weren’t “beaten up enough” financially to resist higher prices that might otherwise make them flinch. And, he added, this dynamic has also put the weight of inflation on poorer households “while richer ones won’t feel it as much.”
The top 20% of households by income typically account for about 40% of total consumer spending. Overall spending on recreational experiences and luxuries appears to have peaked, according to credit card data from large banks, but remains robust enough for firms to keep charging more. Major cruise lines, including Royal Caribbean, have continued lifting prices as demand for cruises has increased going into the summer.
Many people who are not at the top of the income bracket have had to trade down to cheaper products. As a result, several companies that cater to a broad customer base have fared better than expected, as well.
McDonald’s reported that its sales increased by an average of 12.6% per store for the three months through March, compared with a year earlier. About 4.2% of that growth came from increased traffic and 8.4% from higher menu prices.
The company attributed the recent menu price increases to higher expenses for labor, transportation and meat. Several consumer groups have responded by pointing out that recent upticks in the cost of transportation and labor have eased.
A representative for McDonald’s said in an email that the company’s strong results were not just a result of price increases but also “strong consumer demand for McDonald’s around the world.”
Other corporations have found that fewer sales at higher prices have still helped them earn bigger profits: a dynamic that Rines has coined “price over volume.”
Colgate-Palmolive, which in addition to commanding a roughly 40% share of the global toothpaste market, also sells kitchen soap and other goods, had a standout first quarter. Its operating profit for the year through March rose 6% from a year earlier — the result of a 12% increase in prices even as volume declined by 2%.
The recent bonanza for corporate profits, however, may soon start to fizzle.
Research from Glenmede Investment Management indicates there are signs that more consumers are cutting back on pricier purchases. The financial services firm estimates that households in the bottom fourth by income will exhaust whatever is collectively left of their pandemic-era savings sometime this summer.
Some companies are beginning to find resistance from more price-sensitive customers. Dollar Tree reported rising sales but falling margins, as lower-income customers who tend to shop there searched for deals. Shares in the company plunged Thursday as it cut back its profit expectations for the rest of the year. Even PepsiCo and McDonald’s have recently taken hits to their share prices as traders fear that they may not be able to keep increasing their profits.
For now, though, investors appear to be relieved that corporations did as well as they did in the first quarter, which has helped keep stock prices from falling broadly.
Before large companies began reporting how they did in the first three months of the year, the consensus among analysts was that earnings at companies in the S&P 500 would fall roughly 7% from a year earlier. Instead, according to data from FactSet, earnings are expected to have fallen around 2% once all the results are in.
Savita Subramanian, head of U.S. equity and quantitative strategy at Bank of America, wrote in a note that the latest quarterly reports “once again showed corporate America’s ability to preserve margins.” Her team raised overall earnings growth expectations for the rest of the year, and 2024.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Profit margins; Consumers; Price increases; Pandemics; Inflation; Interest rates; Consumer Price Index; Cost control; Corporate profits; Earnings; Households

Business indexing term: Subject: Profit margins Consumers Price increases Inflation Interest rates Consumer Price Index Cost control Corporate profits Earnings

Location: New York; United States--US; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

Identifier / keyword: Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index; Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd; Colgate Palmolive Company; Inflation (Economics); Johnston, Hugh F; Indexers And Indexing; Seasons And Months; Tropicana Products Inc; Gatorade Co; Supply Chain; Business; United States Economy; George Mason University; Bank Of America Corporation; Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; United States; Company Reports; Ukraine; Consumer Price Index; Budgets And Budgeting; Income; Consumer Behavior; Price Gouging; Corporations; Pepsico Inc; Juices; Societe Generale; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Credit And Debt; Cruises; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Bloomberg Tv; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Bloomberg News; Treasury Department; Snack Foods; Research; Dollar Tree Inc; Stocks And Bonds; Standard & Poor's Corp; Mcdonald's Corporation; Producer Price Index

Title: Companies Push Prices Higher, Protecting Profits but Adding to Inflation

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-30T20:55:59Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820689870

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/companies-push-prices-higher-protecting-profits/docview/2820689870/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jim Brown, Football Great and Civil Rights Activist, Dies at 87: [Biography]

Author: Goldstein, Richard

Publication info: Goldstein, Richard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jim-brown-football-great-civil-rights-activist/docview/2815887113/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After a Hall of Fame career in the N.F.L., he pursued social activism and Hollywood stardom, but his image was stained by accusations of abuse toward women.
Jim Brown, the Cleveland Browns fullback who was acclaimed as one of the greatest players in pro football history, and who remained in the public eye as a Hollywood action hero and a civil rights activist, though his name was later tarnished by accusations of violent conduct against women, died on Thursday night at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87.
His family announced his death on Friday on Instagram but did not cite the cause.
Playing for the Browns from 1957 to 1965 after earning all-American honors at Syracuse University in football and lacrosse, Brown helped take Cleveland to the 1964 National Football League championship.
In any game, he dragged defenders when he wasn't running over them or flattening them with a stiff arm. He eluded them with his footwork when he wasn't sweeping around ends and outrunning them. He never missed a game, piercing defensive lines in 118 consecutive regular-season games, though he played one year with a broken toe and another with a sprained wrist.
"All you can do is grab, hold, hang on and wait for help," Sam Huff, the Hall of Fame middle linebacker for the Giants and the Washington team now known as the Commanders, once told Time magazine.
Brown was voted football's greatest player of the 20th century by a six-member panel of experts assembled by The Associated Press in 1999. A panel of 85 experts selected by NFL Films in 2010 placed him No. 2 all time behind the wide receiver Jerry Rice of the San Francisco 49ers.
He was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1971, the Lacrosse Hall of Fame in 1984 and the College Football Hall of Fame in 1995.
Brown was still in top form and only 30 years old when he stunned the football world in the summer of 1966 by retiring to pursue an acting career.
He had appeared in the 1964 western "Rio Conchos" and was involved in the shooting of the World War II film "The Dirty Dozen" in England, with plans to attend the Browns' training camp afterward. But wet weather delayed completion of the filming. When he notified Art Modell, the Browns' owner, that he would be reporting late, Modell said he would fine him for every day he missed camp. Affronted by the threat, Brown called a news conference to announce that he was done with pro football.
When the modern civil rights movement gained momentum in the 1950s, few elite athletes spoke out on racial issues. But Brown had no hesitation.
Working to promote economic development in Cleveland's Black neighborhoods while playing for the Browns, he founded the Negro Industrial and Economic Union (later known as the Black Economic Union) as a vehicle to create jobs. It facilitated loans to Black businessmen in poor areas -- what he called Green Power -- reflecting his long-held belief that economic self-sufficiency held more promise than mass protests.
In June 1967, Brown invited other leading Black athletes, most notably Bill Russell and Lew Alcindor (the future Kareem Abdul-Jabbar), to the office of his Economic Union to hear Muhammad Ali after Ali had been stripped of his heavyweight boxing title and faced imprisonment for refusing to be drafted in protest over the Vietnam War.
In what came to be called the Ali Summit, viewed as a watershed for the development of racial awareness among athletes, Brown and the others at the session publicly voiced their support for Ali.
By the early 1970s, Brown's Economic Union had largely faded. But in the late 1980s he founded the Amer-I-Can Foundation to teach basic life skills to gang members and prisoners, mainly in California, and steer them away from violence. The foundation expanded nationally and remains active.
Handsome with a magnificent physique -- he was a chiseled 6 feet 2 inches and 230 pounds -- Brown appeared in many movies and was sometimes cited as a Black Superman for his cinematic adventures.
"Although the range of emotion Brown displayed onscreen was no wider than a mail slot, he never embarrassed himself, never played to a demeaning stereotype of the comic patsy," James Wolcott wrote in The New York Review of Books in his review of Dave Zirin's 2018 biography, "Jim Brown: Last Man Standing." He called Brown "a rugged chassis for a more self-assertive figure, the Black uberman."
One of Brown's best-remembered roles was in "The Dirty Dozen" (1967), in which he played one of 12 convicts assembled by the Army for a near-suicide mission to kill high-ranking German officers at a French chateau in advance of the D-Day invasion of Normandy. He next played a Marine captain in the Cold War thriller "Ice Station Zebra" (1968).
In 1969, his character was shown having sex with Raquel Welch's character in the western "100 Rifles," the first major Hollywood film depicting a Black man making love to a white woman.
Brown was "becoming a Black John Wayne; or maybe John Wayne with just a hint of Malcolm X thrown in," Gloria Steinem wrote in New York magazine in 1968. She quoted him as saying: "I don't want to play Negro parts. Just cool, tough modern men who are also Negroes. And not good guys all the time."
But Brown had a problematic personal life.
He was arrested more than a half-dozen times, in most cases when women accused him of violent behavior, at a time when prominent men like athletes, actors and political figures were generally not held accountable for purported transgressions against women.
Brown was never convicted of a major crime. In some instances the accusers refused to testify, and in others he was exonerated by juries.
The first accusation against Brown was lodged in 1965, when an 18-year-old woman testified that he had assaulted her at a Cleveland motel. Brown denied the allegation and was found not guilty in a jury trial. A year later, the woman filed a civil paternity suit claiming that Brown had fathered her baby daughter. The jury found in his favor.
In June 1968, the police, arriving at Brown's Hollywood home after a neighbor phoned to report a disturbance, found his 22-year-old girlfriend, Eva Bohn-Chin, a model, lying bloodied and badly injured on his patio. They suspected that Brown had thrown her off his second-story balcony. He said she had fallen. Ms. Bohn-Chin refused to testify, which resulted in the dismissal of an assault charge. Brown paid a $ 300 fine for interfering with a police officer who had been seeking entrance to his home.
Brown's wife, Sue Brown, with whom he had three children, obtained a divorce in 1972.
When Spike Lee released his documentary "Jim Brown: All American" in 2002, Brown was in jail in the Los Angeles area, having lost an appeal over a misdemeanor vandalism conviction in 1999. Brown's wife at that time, Monique Brown, had called the police to report that he smashed the windows of her car with a shovel after an argument.
Brown had been offered community service and anger management counseling, but he refused to accept that and was jailed for nearly four months. But the marriage endured.
"I can definitely get angry, and I have taken that anger out inappropriately in the past," Brown told Sports Illustrated in an interview at the jail. "But I have done so with both men and women."
In 1978, Brown was sentenced to a day in jail and fined $ 500 for beating and choking a male friend during their golf match in Inglewood, Calif., evidently after an argument over the spot where his friend had placed his ball on the ninth green.
"So do I have a problem with women?" Brown added in the interview. "No. I have had anger, and I'll probably continue to have anger. I just have to not strike out at anyone ever again."
Brown maintained over the years that he been victimized because of his race or his celebrity status. In an interview with Judy Klemesrud of The New York Times in April 1969, in which he spoke about the balcony incident, he said, "The cops were after me because I'm free and Black and I'm supposed to be arrogant and supposed to be militant and I swing free and loose and have been outspoken on racial matters and I don't preach against Black militant groups and I'm not humble."
Rural Beginnings
James Nathaniel Brown was born on Feb. 17, 1936, on St. Simons Island, off the Georgia coast, a rural area where the Black populace lived off the land. When he was a few weeks old, his father, Swinton Brown, who had a reputation as a gambler and womanizer, abandoned him and Jim's teenage mother, Theresa Brown. When he was 2, she took a job as a domestic in Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island, an overwhelmingly white but politically liberal community, leaving him in Georgia in the care of a great-grandmother, a grandmother and an aunt.
She sent for him when he was 8, and they lived together for a while, she continued to work as a housekeeper. By his account he felt that she was more interested in her boyfriends than in attending to his needs; he eventually moved in with the family of his girlfriend in nearby Manhasset.
At Manhasset High School, he became a brilliant running back and lacrosse player, and also competed in basketball and baseball and ran track.
The second Black player in the history of Syracuse football, Brown became an all-American in football and lacrosse. In his final regular-season football game, a 61-7 victory over Colgate, he scored six touchdowns, kicked seven extra points and ran for 197 yards. Syracuse went to the 1957 Cotton Bowl, where Brown scored three touchdowns and kicked three extra points in a 28-27 loss to Texas Christian.
Cleveland selected Brown as the No. 6 pick of the 1957 N.F.L. draft. He won the first of his three Most Valuable Player Awards, as selected by The Associated Press, when he ran for a league-leading 942 yards as a rookie.
After the 1962 season, Brown led a group of players who complained to Modell, the team owner, that Paul Brown, the franchise's founder and head coach, was too rigid in continuing with conservative offensive schemes that were being bypassed by other N.F.L. teams using wide-open offenses.
Blanton Collier was named coach in 1963, and Brown had his greatest season, running for an N.F.L. record 1,863 yards. The Browns defeated the Baltimore Colts for the N.F.L. championship in 1964. Brown won his third M.V.P. award in 1965, when the Browns again played for the league championship, this time losing to the Green Bay Packers.
Brown led the N.F.L. in rushing in eight of his nine seasons. He also set N.F.L. records for career yardage (12,312), total touchdowns (126), touchdowns by running (106), and average yards rushing per game (104) and per carry (5.22). He ran for more than 1,000 yards seven times when teams played only 12 and then 14 games a season (they now play 17), and at a time when the rule book favored the passing game over running plays. He caught 20 touchdown passes, and he returned kickoffs.
Brown credited his offensive linemen with springing him into the secondary, and then, as he told Alex Haley in a 1968 interview with Playboy, "I was on my own."
"Then I had a man-to-man situation going me against them; that's when I'd go into my bag of stuff," he said. "They're in trouble now; I'm in their territory; 55 things are happening at once; I'm moving, evaluating their possible moves, trying to outthink and outmaneuver them, using my speed, quickness and balance."
"But sometimes it got down to out-and-out strength and brute force," Brown said. "Some guys, if they were small enough, I'd just run over them."
Brown seemed perpetually battered, getting up slowly after running plays, but he said that was a psychological tactic. As he put it in his 1989 memoir "Out of Bounds," written with Steve Delsohn, "By getting up with leisure every play, every game, every season, they never knew if I was hurt or if I wasn't."
Most of Brown's especially significant records have been eclipsed. But he was accorded tributes long after his football career ended.
In 1994, he was named to the N.F.L.'s 75th anniversary all-time team. In 2015, Syracuse University unveiled statues of Brown and the star running backs who succeeded him, Ernie Davis and Floyd Little, all of whom wore No. 44, on a patio called Plaza 44. The second Browns franchise dedicated a statue of Brown outside its FirstEnergy Stadium in 2016.
Seeking support for his Amer-I-Can Foundation's efforts to curb gang violence, Brown and the former star N.F.L. linebacker Ray Lewis met with president-elect Donald J. Trump at his Trump Tower office in Manhattan in December 2016. Brown and the musician Kanye West had lunch with Mr. Trump at the White House in October 2018.
"This is the president of the United States," Brown said after the White House meeting. "He allowed me to be invited to his territory, he treated us beautifully, and he shared some thoughts, and he will be open to talking when I get back to him."
He married Monique Gunthrop in 1997, and she survives him. Brown is also survived by their son, Aris, and their daughter, Morgan; a daughter, Kim, and a son, Kevin, who were twins, and another son, James Jr., from his marriage to Sue (Jones) Brown.
At least one defensive player looked at the bright side in describing an encounter with Brown. Remembering the first time he faced him, the Dallas Cowboys' Pro Bowl linebacker Chuck Howley told Life magazine: "I had one of my best days. I made almost as much yardage as he did -- riding on his back."
Photograph The Cleveland Browns fullback Jim Brown carrying the ball against the Giants at Yankee Stadium in 1960. He was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNIE SISTO/THE NEW YORK TIMES); At left, Bill Russell, Muhammad Ali, Brown and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (then known as Lew Alcindor), seated from left, met in 1967 to voice their support for Ali. Above, Brown, at left, in a scene from the movie "The Dirty Dozen." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES; MGM) (A20-A21) This article appeared in print on page A1, A20, A21.

Subject: Athletes; Professional football; Activists; Deaths

People: Brown, Jim (football player)

Company / organization: Name: Cleveland Browns; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/19/sports/football/jim-brown-dead.html

Title: Jim Brown, Football Great and Civil Rights Activist, Dies at 87:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 20, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2815887113

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jim-brown-football-great-civil-rights-activist/docview/2815887113/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-22

Database: Globa l Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jim Brown, Football Great and Civil Rights Champion, Dies at 87

Author: Goldstein, Richard

Publication info: Goldstein, Richard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jim-brown-football-great-civil-rights-champion/docview/2815649529/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Jim Brown, the Cleveland Browns fullback who was acclaimed as one of the greatest players in pro football history and who remained in the public eye as a Hollywood action hero and a civil rights activist, though his name was later tarnished by accusations of violent conduct against women, died Thursday night at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87.
His family announced his death Friday on Instagram.
Playing for the Browns from 1957 to 1965 after earning All-American honors at Syracuse University in football and lacrosse, Brown helped take Cleveland to the 1964 NFL championship.
In any game, he dragged defenders when he wasn’t running over them or flattening them with a stiff arm. He eluded them with his footwork when he wasn’t sweeping around ends and outrunning them. He never missed a game, piercing defensive lines in 118 consecutive regular-season games, though he played one year with a broken toe and another with a sprained wrist.
“All you can do is grab, hold, hang on and wait for help,” Sam Huff, the Hall of Fame middle linebacker of the New York Giants and the Washington team, now the Commanders, once told Time magazine.
Brown was voted football’s greatest player of the 20th century by a six-member panel of experts assembled by The Associated Press in 1999. A panel of 85 experts selected by NFL Films in 2010 placed him No. 2 all time behind wide receiver Jerry Rice of the San Francisco 49ers.
He was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1971, the Lacrosse Hall of Fame in 1984 and the College Football Hall of Fame in 1995.
Brown was still in top form and only 30 years old when he stunned the football world in the summer of 1966 by retiring to pursue an acting career.
He had appeared in the 1964 Western “Rio Conchos” and was involved in the shooting of the World War II film “The Dirty Dozen” in England, with plans to attend the Browns’ training camp afterward. But wet weather delayed completion of the filming. When he notified Art Modell, the Browns’ owner, that he would be reporting late, Modell said he would fine him for every day he missed camp. Affronted by the threat, Brown called a news conference to announce that he was done with pro football.
When the modern civil rights movement gained momentum in the 1950s, few elite athletes spoke out on racial issues. But Brown had no hesitation.
Working to promote economic development in Cleveland’s Black neighborhoods while playing for the Browns, he founded the Negro Industrial and Economic Union (later known as the Black Economic Union) as a vehicle to create jobs. It facilitated loans to Black businesspeople in poor areas — what he called Green Power — reflecting his long-held belief that economic self-sufficiency held more promise than mass protests.
In June 1967, Brown invited other leading Black athletes — most notably, Bill Russell and Lew Alcindor (the future Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) — to the office of his Economic Union to hear Muhammad Ali after Ali had been stripped of his heavyweight boxing title and faced imprisonment for refusing to be drafted in protest over the Vietnam War.
In what came to be called the Ali Summit, viewed as a watershed for the development of racial awareness among athletes, Brown and the others at the session publicly voiced their support for Ali.
By the early 1970s, Brown’s Economic Union had largely faded. But in the late 1980s, he founded the Amer-I-Can Foundation to teach basic life skills to gang members and prisoners, mainly in California, and steer them away from violence. The foundation expanded nationally and remains active.
Handsome with a magnificent physique — he was a chiseled 6 feet, 2 inches and 230 pounds — Brown appeared in many movies and was sometimes cited as a Black Superman for his cinematic adventures.
“Although the range of emotion Brown displayed onscreen was no wider than a mail slot, he never embarrassed himself, never played to a demeaning stereotype of the comic patsy,” James Wolcott wrote in The New York Review of Books in his review of Dave Zirin’s 2018 biography, “Jim Brown: Last Man Standing.” He called Brown “a rugged chassis for a more self-assertive figure, the Black uberman.”
One of Brown’s best-remembered roles was in “The Dirty Dozen” (1967), in which he played one of 12 convicts assembled by the Army for a near-suicide mission to kill high-ranking German officers at a French chateau in advance of the D-Day invasion of Normandy. He next played a Marine captain in the Cold War thriller “Ice Station Zebra” (1968).
In 1969, his character was shown having sex with Raquel Welch’s character in the Western “100 Rifles,” the first major Hollywood film depicting a Black man making love to a white woman.
Brown was “becoming a Black John Wayne; or maybe John Wayne with just a hint of Malcolm X thrown in,” Gloria Steinem wrote in New York magazine in 1968. She quoted him as saying, “I don’t want to play Negro parts. Just cool, tough modern men who are also Negroes. And not good guys all the time.”
But Brown had a problematic personal life.
He was arrested more than a half-dozen times, in most cases when women accused him of violent behavior, at a time when prominent men like athletes, actors and political figures were generally not held accountable for purported transgressions against women.
Brown was never convicted of a major crime. In some instances, the accusers refused to testify, and in others, he was exonerated by juries.
The first accusation against Brown was lodged in 1965, when an 18-year-old woman testified that he had assaulted her at a Cleveland motel. Brown denied the allegation and was found not guilty in a jury trial. A year later, the woman filed a civil paternity suit claiming that Brown had fathered her baby daughter. The jury found in his favor.
In June 1968, the police, arriving at Brown’s Hollywood home after a neighbor phoned to report a disturbance, found his 22-year-old girlfriend, Eva Bohn-Chin, a model, lying bloodied and badly injured on his patio. They suspected that Brown had thrown her off his second-story balcony. He said she had fallen. Bohn-Chin refused to testify, which resulted in the dismissal of an assault charge. Brown paid a $300 fine for interfering with a police officer who had been seeking entrance to his home.
Brown’s wife, Sue Brown, with whom he had three children, obtained a divorce in 1972.
When Spike Lee released his documentary “Jim Brown: All American” in 2002, Brown was in jail in the Los Angeles area, having lost an appeal over a misdemeanor vandalism conviction in 1999. Brown’s wife at that time, Monique Brown, had called the police to report that he smashed the windows of her car with a shovel after an argument.
Brown had been offered community service and anger management counseling, but he refused to accept that and was jailed for nearly four months. But the marriage endured.
“I can definitely get angry, and I have taken that anger out inappropriately in the past,” Brown told Sports Illustrated in an interview at the jail. “But I have done so with both men and women.”
In 1978, Brown was sentenced to a day in jail and fined $500 for beating and choking a male friend during their golf match in Inglewood, California, evidently after an argument over the spot where his friend had placed his ball on the ninth green.
“So do I have a problem with women?” Brown added in the interview. “No. I have had anger, and I’ll probably continue to have anger. I just have to not strike out at anyone ever again.”
Brown maintained over the years that he been victimized because of his race or his celebrity status. In an interview with Judy Klemesrud of The New York Times in April 1969, in which he spoke about the balcony incident, he said, “The cops were after me because I’m free and Black and I’m supposed to be arrogant and supposed to be militant and I swing free and loose and have been outspoken on racial matters and I don’t preach against Black militant groups and I’m not humble.”
Rural Beginnings
James Nathaniel Brown was born Feb. 17, 1936, on St. Simons Island, off the Georgia coast, a rural area where the Black populace lived off the land. When he was a few weeks old, his father, Swinton Brown, who had a reputation as a gambler and womanizer, abandoned him and Jim’s teenage mother, Theresa Brown. When he was 2, she took a job as a domestic in Great Neck, New York, on Long Island, an overwhelmingly white but politically liberal community, leaving him in Georgia in the care of a great-grandmother, a grandmother and an aunt.
She sent for him when he was 8, and they lived together for a while as she continued to work as a housekeeper. By his account, he felt that she was more interested in her boyfriends than in attending to his needs; he eventually moved in with the family of his girlfriend in nearby Manhasset.
At Manhasset High School, he became a brilliant running back and lacrosse player and also competed in basketball and baseball and ran track.
The second Black player in the history of Syracuse football, Brown became an All-American in football and lacrosse. In his final regular-season football game, a 61-7 victory over Colgate, he scored six touchdowns, kicked seven extra points and ran for 197 yards. Syracuse went to the 1957 Cotton Bowl, where Brown scored three touchdowns and kicked three extra points in a 28-27 loss to Texas Christian.
Cleveland selected Brown as the No. 6 pick of the 1957 NFL draft. He won the first of his three MVP awards, as selected by The Associated Press, when he ran for a league-leading 942 yards as a rookie.
After the 1962 season, Brown led a group of players who complained to Modell, the team owner, that Paul Brown, the franchise’s founder and head coach, was too rigid in continuing with conservative offensive schemes that were being bypassed by other NFL teams using wide-open offenses.
Blanton Collier was named coach in 1963, and Brown had his greatest season, running for an NFL record 1,863 yards. The Browns defeated the Baltimore Colts for the NFL championship in 1964. Brown won his third MVP award in 1965, when the Browns again played for the league championship, this time losing to the Green Bay Packers.
Brown led the NFL in rushing in eight of his nine seasons. He also set NFL records for career yardage (12,312), total touchdowns (126), touchdowns by running (106), and average yards rushing per game (104) and per carry (5.22). He ran for more than 1,000 yards seven times when teams played only 12 and then 14 games a season (they now play 17) and at a time when the rulebook favored the passing game over running plays. He caught 20 touchdown passes, and he returned kickoffs.
Brown credited his offensive linemen with springing him into the secondary, and then, as he told Alex Haley in a 1968 interview with Playboy, “I was on my own.”
“Then I had a man-to-man situation going me against them; that’s when I’d go into my bag of stuff,” he said. “They’re in trouble now; I’m in their territory; 55 things are happening at once; I’m moving, evaluating their possible moves, trying to outthink and outmaneuver them, using my speed, quickness and balance.
“But sometimes it got down to out-and-out strength and brute force,” Brown said. “Some guys, if they were small enough, I’d just run over them.”
Brown seemed perpetually battered, getting up slowly after running plays, but he said that was a psychological tactic. As he put it in his 1989 memoir “Out of Bounds,” written with Steve Delsohn, “By getting up with leisure every play, every game, every season, they never knew if I was hurt or if I wasn’t.”
Most of Brown’s especially significant records have been eclipsed. But he was accorded tributes long after his football career ended.
In 1994, he was named to the NFL’s 75th anniversary all-time team. In 2015, Syracuse University unveiled statues of Brown and the star running backs who succeeded him, Ernie Davis and Floyd Little, all of whom wore No. 44, on a patio called Plaza 44. The second Browns franchise dedicated a statue of Brown outside its FirstEnergy Stadium in 2016.
Seeking support for his Amer-I-Can Foundation’s efforts to curb gang violence, Brown and former star NFL linebacker Ray Lewis met with President-elect Donald Trump at his Trump Tower office in Manhattan in December 2016. Brown and musician Kanye West had lunch with Trump at the White House in October 2018.
“This is the president of the United States,” Brown said after the White House meeting. “He allowed me to be invited to his territory, he treated us beautifully, and he shared some thoughts, and he will be open to talking when I get back to him.”
He married Monique Gunthrop in 1997, and she survives him. Brown is also survived by their son, Aris, and their daughter, Morgan; a daughter, Kim, and a son, Kevin, who were twins, and another son, James Jr., from his marriage to Sue (Jones) Brown.
At least one defensive player looked at the bright side in describing an encounter with Brown. Remembering the first time he faced him, Dallas Cowboys’ Pro Bowl linebacker Chuck Howley told Life magazine, “I had one of my best days. I made almost as much yardage as he did — riding on his back.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Athletes; Professional football; Deaths

People: Brown, Jim (football player)

Company / organization: Name: Cleveland Browns; NAICS: 711211

Identifier / keyword: California; San Francisco (Calif); Welch, Raquel; Brown, Jim; Cold War Era; Colleges And Universities; Deaths (Obituaries); Boselli, Tony; Movies; Fines (Penalties); Assaults; Women's Rights; World War Ii (1939 45); Nineteen Hundred Sixties; New York Giants; Sports; Football (College); Careers And Professions; College Football Hall Of Fame; Lee, Spike; Race And Ethnicity; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nfl Films; Violence (Media And Entertainment); Washington Commanders; Records And Achievements; Hiring And Promotion; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Indecency, Obscenity And Profanity; National Football League; Germany; San Francisco Giants; Instagram Inc; Holocaust And The Nazi Era; Officiat ing (Sports); England; Steinem, Gloria; Malcolm X; Threats And Threatening Messages; Decisions And Verdicts; Civil Rights Movement (1954 68); Normandy (France); Discrimination; Women And Girls; Ali, Muhammad; Brown University; Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; Black People; International Relations; Child Abuse And Neglect; New York (Magazine); Syracuse University; Baseball; Vietnam; Pro Football Hall Of Fame; Boxing; Palaces And Castles; Rice University; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Civil Righ ts And Liberties; Jury System; Paternity Suits; Athletics And Sports; Halls Of Fame; Football; San Francisco 49ers; France; New York Review Of Books; Modell, Art; Names, Organizational; Sports Illustrated; Inglewood (Calif); Firearms; Vietnam War; Associated Press; Wayne, John; Huff, Sam; Cleveland Browns; New York Times

Title: Jim Brown, Football Great and Civil Rights Champion, Dies at 87

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 19, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-19T23:10:29Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2815649529

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jim-brown-football-great-civil-rights-champion/docview/2815649529/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 19, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Globa l Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Met Makes a Plan to Review Its Vast Collections for Looted Art: [National Desk]

Author: Pogrebin, Robin; Bowley, Graham

Publication info: Pogrebin, Robin; Bowley, Graham. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/met-makes-plan-review-vast-collections-looted-art/docview/2811393715/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The plan features the hiring of a four-person provenance research team that will help review the museum's collection for works with tainted histories.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, facing increasing scrutiny from law enforcement officials, academics and the news media over the extent to which its collection includes looted artifacts, announced on Tuesday a major new effort to review its holdings and policies with a view toward returning items it finds to have problematic histories.
The core feature of the new plan is the museum's decision to hire a provenance research team that is as robust as any in place at an American museum.
The moves come as the Met -- one of the largest museums in the world, with more than 1.5 million works from the past 5,000 years in its holdings -- has been buffeted in recent years by increasing calls to repatriate works that law enforcement officials and foreign governments say it has no right to.
In the past year, Cambodian officials have sought the help of federal officials to secure the return of artifacts they view as looted. Separately, the Manhattan district attorney's office has seized dozens of antiquities from the museum to return them to countries like Turkey, Egypt and Italy.
The museum's stature and the scope of its effort, disclosed in a letter to the museum staff, is likely to affect how other institutions grapple with the increasing pressure to return ancient items that bear evidence of having been looted.
"As a pre-eminent voice in the global art community, it is incumbent upon the Met to engage more intensively and proactively in examining certain areas of our collection," Max Hollein, the museum's director, said in his letter. He added that "the emergence of new and additional information, along with the changing climate on cultural property, demands that we dedicate additional resources to this work."
To better confront these issues, Hollein said, the Met has developed initiatives to "broaden, expedite and intensify research into all works that came to the museum from art dealers who have been under investigation."
Most significantly, the Met will bring in a manager of provenance research and three additional provenance researchers to build upon the efforts of its curators and conservators.
Other museums, such as the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, have had a dedicated provenance researcher for years, often assisted by an aide. But the Met's new four-person unit is thought to be as large as any deployed by a U.S. fine arts institution.
In addition, Hollein said in his letter, the Met plans to "convene thought leaders, advocates and opinion makers in the area of cultural property," and to share more of its work in this area. The letter referred to a panel conversation on a previous agreement the museum had made with the Nigerian Cultural Ministry about returning and loaning artworks.
Finally, the Met has formed a committee of 18 curators, conservators and others to consider its legal and public policies and practices when it comes to collecting.
Hollein said most of the objects with provenance questions at the Met had been acquired between 1970 and 1990, which his letter described as a period of rapid growth for the museum, when there was less information available and less scrutiny on provenance. "We currently estimate that this examination will include several hundred or more objects," his letter said.
The period after 1970 has been an important focus because it heralded an era when many countries adopted the principles of a UNESCO treaty that sought to crack down on illicit trade in antiquities. Museums began to set guidelines in response, and many agreed not to acquire artifacts without clear, documented evidence that they had left a country of origin before 1970, or had been legally exported after 1970.
But the follow-through by the Met and other museums has been imperfect, and in a good number of cases the Met, based on the records it kept, accepted artifacts with no history beyond the name of the dealer or the donor who supplied it. Thomas Hoving, a Met curator who later became its director, acknowledged after leaving the museum that, in the quest to acquire trophy artifacts, the pursuit occasionally trumped all other concerns.
"The attitude used to be, don't acquire something you know to be stolen -- that's a very low standard," said Maxwell Anderson, who has served as the director of institutions like the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Dallas Museum of Art. "The attitude today is, don't acquire something unless you know it's not stolen. It's a 180-degree difference."
Although rules were more strictly observed in later years, museum curators at times took a dealer's word that objects had been obtained legally. Or museums found it difficult to confirm an artwork's origins when, as in the case of Cambodia in the 1970s, foreign countries were in turmoil and there was no government to check with.
Cambodian officials have said in recent years that at least 45 artifacts at the Met were stolen from ancient sites in the country. The Met has recently removed several items from display in response, but it has refused to show Cambodian officials internal documents that might buttress, or undermine, the museum's proper title to the objects. Instead, the Met has requested evidence from Cambodia demonstrating that the works were stolen.
The Met's new approach comes as leading museums around the world are confronting similar challenges. The British Museum has been in talks with Greek officials, who have long sought the return of the Parthenon marbles. The Vatican announced last year that it would give fragments of the Parthenon that were long held in the Vatican Museum to the Greek Orthodox Church. German and U.S. museums have been returning Benin Bronzes to Nigeria.
Some critics want museums to do far more than simply ensure that ancient objects were not stolen. Even when no laws were broken, they want museums to place a greater emphasis on social justice, ensuring that objects were not obtained by exploiting societies weakened by poverty, colonialism, war or political instability -- and to return them if they were.
"It's time to step up, gentlemen," Elizabeth Marlowe, director of the museum studies program at Colgate University, said in an interview last year about the appropriate responses by institutions. "It's a different landscape."
Over the years the Met has returned many objects that were found to have been looted or were of questionable provenance. In 2008, for example, it returned to Italy the famous Euphronios krater, purchased in 1972 for $ 1 million.
But the pace has quickened. In the past year, the Met said it had returned 45 items to a variety of countries. It said it had been, and would continue to be, entirely cooperative, despite criticism that it had not acted quickly enough to address the problem.
As far back as 2015, some 15 items in the Met's collection were identified as having come from Subhash Kapoor, a Manhattan art dealer accused of being one of the world's most prolific smugglers of stolen artifacts. In 2019, the Met committed to reviewing the items, but it did not announce it would return them until two months ago.
Hollein emphasized in his letter that, even with the additional resources, the process of provenance research needed to be deliberative and potentially slow.
"Despite the urgency the media environment may suggest, we must be diligent, thoughtful and fair in our evaluation of any evidence being presented to us," he said in his letter. "We are committed to getting it right, and equally committed to taking the time necessary to do so."
The new plan would also seem to better equip the Met to offer counterarguments when it is presented with a subpoena or seizure order from the Antiquities Trafficking Unit of the Manhattan district attorney's office.
Matthew Bogdanos, the prosecutor who leads the unit, has seized objects, under stolen property laws, from many private collectors and other museums such as the J. Paul Getty Museum, which last year returned to Italy a major piece, "Orpheus and the Sirens," life-size terra-cotta figures dating to 300 B.C.
But in the past year the Met's collection has been a particular focus. In September, the office said it had seized 27 ancient artifacts valued at more than $ 13 million from the Met, asserting that the objects had all been looted. They include an ancient Greek kylix, or drinking cup, and were returned to Egypt and Italy.
In March, investigators said they had seized a headless bronze statue of the ancient Roman emperor Septimius Severus, dating to 225 A.D. and valued at $ 25 million. It had presided over the Greek and Roman galleries for a dozen years.
Hollein said in an interview that the expansion of provenance research was in no way motivated by a sense that the museum was being outgunned when it came to understanding the history of its own collection. He said that he viewed the Met as working in concert with law enforcement and that he welcomed the district attorney's findings as "extraordinarily powerful and revelatory."
"We're in constant dialogue and sometimes we're being confronted with evidence we haven't seen before, which makes us move," Hollein said. "There is a partnership. I don't see our efforts as opposed to the district attorney or that we need to step up because they stepped up."
In his letter, Hollein attempted to describe what he saw as the changing cultural mores that museums now face. "We live in a time," he wrote, "when the idea of a cosmopolitan, global society is being challenged, and some more nationalist voices embrace cultural artifacts less as ambassadors of a people but more as evidence of national identity."
He does worry as well, he said in the interview, that people have lost sight of the critical mission being performed by museums.
"It's not that we are taking objects and closing them away just because we want to own them," he said. "We collect objects because we want to share them, we want to contextualize them, we want people to understand more about them. The Met is a very good place for works of art from across the world. It's a very good place to connect these objects with other communities and cultures."
Still, Hollein acknowledged that he expected the researchers to turn up additional items that needed to be returned.
"The results will be manifold and you will see more restitutions by the Met with clear findings and clear articulations," he said.
"Whatever unlawfully entered our collection," he added, "should not be in our collection."
Tom Mashberg contributed reporting.
Tom Mashberg contributed reporting.
Photograph Max Hollein, right, the Met's director, announced in a letter that the museum will examine its holdings with the intent of returning items with problematic histories. Some of the museum's artifacts, seen here, have already been seized by officials and returned to countries like Turkey, Egypt and Italy or removed from display. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LELANIE FOSTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART; THE MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Research; Historic artifacts; Art galleries & museums; Curators; Looting; Law enforcement; Cultural property; Provenance

Location: Italy; Cambodia; United States--US; Egypt

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/09/arts/met-museum-looted-art.html

Title: The Met Makes a Plan to Review Its Vast Collections for Looted Art:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 10, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811393715

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/met-makes-plan-review-vast-collections-looted-art/docview/2811393715/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Owners Of Offices Scramble For Loans To Hang On: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldstein, Matthew; Creswell, Julie; Eavis, Peter

Publication info: Goldstein, Matthew; Creswell, Julie; Eavis, Peter. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/owners-offices-scramble-loans-hang-on/docview/2811127066/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A real estate investment fund recently defaulted on $ 750 million of mortgages for two Los Angeles skyscrapers. A private equity firm slashed the value of its investment in the Willis Tower in Chicago by nearly a third. And a big New York landlord is trying to extend the deadline for paying down a loan for a Park Avenue office tower.
Office districts in nearly every U.S. city have been under great stress since the pandemic emptied workplaces and made working from home common. But in recent months, the crisis has entered a tense phase that could damage local economies and cause financial hits to real estate investors and scores of banks.
Lenders are increasingly reluctant to make new loans to owners of office buildings, especially after the collapse of two banks last month.
"They don't want to make new office building loans because they don't want more exposure," said Scott Rechler, a New York landlord who is a big player in the city's office market and sits on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The timing of the pullback in lending couldn't be worse. Landlords need to refinance about $ 137 billion of office mortgages this year and nearly half a trillion dollars in the following four years, according to Trepp, a commercial real estate data firm. The Federal Reserve's campaign to fight inflation by raising interest rates has also substantially raised the cost of loans still on offer.
Banks' unwillingness to lend and building owners' desperation for credit have created a standoff. Lenders want to extend loans and make new ones only if they can get better terms. Many landlords are pushing back, and some are threatening to default, effectively betting that banks and investors stand to lose more in a foreclosure.
How private negotiations between lenders and building owners are resolved could have major ramifications. Defaults could heap pressure on regional banks and help push the economy into recession. Local property tax revenue, already under pressure, could plummet, forcing governments to cut services or lay off workers.
"What we are seeing is this dance between lenders and owners," said Joshua Zegen of Madison Realty Capital in New York, a firm that specializes in financing for commercial real estate projects. "No one knows what the right value is. No one wants to take a building back," he said, adding that building owners don't want to put in new capital, either.
He added that the office sector was feeling far more stress than other kinds of commercial real estate like hotels and apartment buildings.
Some industry experts are optimistic that given enough time, building owners and their lenders will hammer out compromises, avoiding foreclosures or a big loss in property tax revenue because everybody wants to minimize losses.
"I don't see it as something that is going to result in systematic risk," said Manus Clancy, a senior managing director at Trepp. "It's not going to bring down banks, but you could see some banks that have problems. Nothing gets resolved quickly in this market."
Loans on commercial buildings are typically easier than home mortgages to extend or modify. Negotiations are handled by bank executives or specialized finance firms called servicers, which act on behalf of investors that own securities backed by one or more commercial mortgages.
But striking a deal can still be hard.
Mr. Rechler's company, RXR, recently stopped making payments on a loan it used to finance the purchase of 61 Broadway in downtown Manhattan. His company got its original investment in the building back after selling nearly half its stake to another investor several years ago, he said. He added that the lender, Aareal Bank, a German institution, was considering selling the loan and the building.
"In this illiquid market, can they sell that loan? Can they sell the building?" Mr. Rechler said. Aareal Bank declined to comment.
Eric Gural is a co-chief executive of GFP Real Estate, a family-owned firm that has stakes in several Manhattan office buildings, mostly older ones. He has been embroiled in nearly seven months of negotiations with a bank to extend a $ 30 million loan on a building in Union Square, and just two months are left on the mortgage.
"I'm trying to get a one-year extension on an existing loan so I can see what interest rates look like next year, which is likely to be better than they are now," Mr. Gural said. "Hybrid work has created fear in the banks."
Though many workers have returned to offices at least a few days a week, 18.6 percent of U.S. office space is available for rent, according to Cushman & Wakefield, a commercial real estate services firm, the most since it started measuring vacancies in 1995.
Public pension funds, insurance companies and mutual fund firms that invest in bonds backed by commercial mortgages also have an interest in seeing problems resolved or put off. A wave of foreclosures would lower the value of their securities.
Many of the mortgages that analysts are most worried about involve buildings in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington -- cities where there is a glut of vacant space or where workers are reluctant to return to offices.
One such property is the 108-story Willis Tower in Chicago -- the third-tallest building in the country, after One World Trade Center and Central Park Tower, both in Manhattan. The giant private equity firm Blackstone bought it for about $ 1.3 billion in 2015 and committed to spending $ 500 million on renovating the 50-year-old building, formerly the Sears Tower, including adding retail space and a rooftop terrace.
But in December, United Airlines, the building's largest tenant, paid an early termination fee and vacated three floors; the company still occupies 16 floors. That month, about 83 percent of the building was occupied, according to KBRA Analytics, a credit data and research firm. Blackstone disputes those numbers; Jeffrey Kauth, a company spokesman, said that "approximately 90 percent of the office space is leased."
Blackstone recently notified some of its real estate fund investors that it had written down the value of its equity investment in Willis Tower by $ 119 million, or 29 percent, said a person briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive financial information.
In March, Blackstone got a fourth extension on the $ 1.33 billion mortgage, pushing the due date to next year, according to Trepp. Under the terms of the loan, the firm can seek another one-year extension next year.
Blackstone said only around 2 percent of the firm's real estate funds were invested in office buildings -- down a lot from a decade ago.
Even streets with some of the priciest real estate in the country are not immune.
In Manhattan, the owner of 300 Park Avenue, an office building across the street from the Waldorf Astoria, is seeking a two-year extension on a $ 485 million loan coming due in August, according to KBRA Analytics. The property is owned by a joint venture including Tishman Speyer and several unnamed investors.
The 25-story building, built in 1955, is the headquarters for Colgate-Palmolive. But the consumer products conglomerate is shrinking its presence there.
"We requested that our loan be transferred to the special servicer well in advance of its maturity so that we can work together on a mutually beneficial extension," said Bud Perrone, a spokesman for Tishman Speyer.
Portions of a bond deal that includes the 300 Park Avenue loan were downgraded last fall by Fitch Ratings because some tenants had left the building, and a lower-rated slice of the bond now trades at about 85 cents on the dollar.
Across the country, an investment fund connected to the real estate giant Brookfield Properties defaulted on $ 750 million of loans for the Gas Company Tower and a nearby building, 777 Tower, in downtown Los Angeles, setting up a possible foreclosure or a sale of the properties, according to the fund.
Andrew Brent, a spokesman for Brookfield, said in an emailed statement that office buildings suffering financial challenges were "a very small percentage of our portfolio."
Even as building owners struggle with vacancies and high interest rates, some have found a way to put their properties on a more solid footing.
The owners of the Seagram Building at 375 Park Avenue in Manhattan have been working to refinance a $ 200 million portion of a loan that comes due in May while finding new tenants to fill several floors previously occupied by Wells Fargo.
RFR Holding, an investment group led by Aby J. Rosen and Michael Fuchs, bought the 38-story building in 2000 for $ 379 million. To entice employees back to the office, RFR last year built a $ 25 million "playground" in an underground garage that's equipped with a climbing wall and pickleball and basketball courts. Four new tenants signed leases in the past few months, according to Trepp.
Even with all the vacant space, some landlords like Mr. Rechler's RXR still want to build new towers. RXR is moving ahead with plans to build what could be one of the tallest buildings in the country at 175 Park Avenue.
"It's one of a kind in what is and will always be one of the best office markets in the world," he said, referring to the tower.
Photograph An investment fund connected to Brookfield Properties defaulted on $ 750 million of loans for two Los Angeles buildings, including 777 Tower, above. Banks now only want to extend loans or make new ones if they can get better terms. (B1); An investment fund's defaults on the Gas Company Tower, above, and 777 Tower, at right, together totaled $ 750 million.; "Hybrid work has created fear in the banks," said Eric Gural, co-chief executive of GFP Real Estate, a family-owned firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAG CHRISTOF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Blackstone recently told real estate fund investors that it had written down the value of its equity investment in Chicago's 108-story Willis Tower by $ 119 million, or 29 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNDON FRENCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The owners of the Seagram Building in Manhattan have to find new tenants to fill floors previously occupied by Wells Fargo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARUKA SAKAGUCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Vacancies; Commercial real estate; Buildings; Property taxes; Foreclosure; Corporate headquarters; Mortgages; Office space; Central banks; Interest rates; Private equity; Tax revenues; Loans

Business indexing term: Subject: Property taxes Foreclosure Corporate headquarters Mortgages Central banks Interest rates Private equity Tax revenues Loans

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: Aareal Bank AG; NAICS: 522292

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/27/business/economy/office-buildings-banks-economy.html

Title: Owners Of Offices Scramble For Lo ans To Hang On:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811127066

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/owners-offices-scramble-loans-hang-on/docview/2811127066/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Ancient Cup's Bit-by-Bit Rebirth And the Story That's Behind It: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom

Publication info: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ancient-cups-bit-rebirth-story-thats-behind/docview/2804560921/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Investigators seized the Attic Greek cup from the Met last year. They, and others, doubt the museum's reconstruction of it from fragments was simply a product of genius.
The first shards of pottery arrived at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1978, a purchase from a Swiss dealer. A second handful was bought from a Los Angeles gallery a year later.
These ceramic tidbits -- part of the hodgepodge of ancient fragments that the museum routinely collected -- bore the unmistakable designs of ancient Greek pottery. A Met expert thought they were a small part of a significant artifact, a drinking cup known as a kylix.
In dribs and drabs over the next 16 years, a remarkable pattern emerged -- a Humpty Dumpty story with a happier ending. As hundreds of disparate shards of pottery arrived at the museum -- some as purchases, some as gifts -- dozens turned out to be parts of the same Greek kylix from roughly 490 B.C.
With great patience and puzzle-solving, the Met reconstructed the cup and decided it had been created by two notables of ancient ceramics: Hieron, the potter, and Makron, the painter.
One can imagine the excitement when the last fragment arrived in 1994. A terra-cotta kylix, created in Athens 2,500 years earlier, had been restored to life. The cup, 13 inches in diameter and depicting a man and a woman reclining on a couch, went on display five years later: an icon of ancient beauty as well as a testament to modern scholarship and technical expertise.
But law enforcement officials and a dozen archaeologists and art historians said in interviews that they believe that other, less serendipitous forces may also have been at work. They suggest that the individual shards of the kylix, which had likely been found together, were knowingly dispersed among dealers who sold them separately to the Met, their small size deflecting the kind of attention a complete cup would have drawn.
In September, the Manhattan district attorney's office seized the kylix, now valued at more than $ 1 million, and declared it the product of looting. The office cited as evidence old Polaroids of some of the fragments that had been taken prior to their arrival at the Met. The photos had been found in the Geneva offices of Giacomo Medici, an accused Italian antiquities trafficker.
Investigators were struck by the fact that the fragments from a single cup -- shards that had ostensibly lain together in the ground for centuries -- ended up in the hands of different dealers or collectors who eventually sold or donated them to the Met.
Three of them were later associated with the sale of looted antiquities.
A fourth, it turned out, was Dietrich von Bothmer, who for decades served as chief curator of Greek and Roman artifacts at the Met. After he purchased the other fragments for the museum, von Bothmer surprisingly found shards in his own private collection that nearly completed the piece, including the final fragment he gave to the Met in 1994.
Nowhere, according to the Met's records, did he or any of the others indicate where they had gotten the fragments.
David Gill, an archaeologist and fellow with the Centre for Heritage at the University of Kent in England, is among the experts who believe the Makron kylix was illicitly excavated just before pieces of it began showing up at the museum. He views it as another example of a long employed, but seldom discussed, practice of using fragments to market illicit antiquities because intact artifacts would draw too much attention.
"If the Met had bought this complete cup attributed to Makron, there would have been jumping up and down," Gill said. "Instead, it had bought a fragment, and it loses the impact."
"It looks," he continued, "as if they are just putting a jigsaw puzzle together."
Many experts believe the smuggling of illicit fragments became a black market routine. Some experts go further, suggesting that thieves at times smashed intact antiquities, destroying markers of history that had survived for millenniums.
Matthew Bogdanos, the prosecutor with the Manhattan district attorney's office who leads the Antiquities Trafficking Unit that seized the Met's kylix, said the breaks in fragments on some cups appear to have been made strategically so that figures on the pottery remain intact.
"It does make you wonder how many items they destroyed before they got good at it," he said.
Other experts, though, say looters do not have the patience to undertake a scheme that can take a decade or more to unfold. And even cumulatively, they argue, fragments from a cup would not nearly match the price of an intact artifact.
"They are worth much more unbroken!" said J. Michael Padgett, the former curator of ancient art at the Princeton University Art Museum.
Ancient artifacts, he said, are reconstructed, not through the intrigue of conspirators, but because expert, methodical researchers, with many contacts and special databases, are capable of making matches from a universe of orphaned shards.
But those who embrace the fragment theory suggest that there is little value to an intact vase if it can't be successfully exported and that the prices of fragments soar if they are the last of the missing pieces.
"The first three fragments are not going to be of great value," Bogdanos said. "Now more come on the market and the price of the fragments is driven up. The dealer says, 'Hey, there are four more pieces!' Now you want to pay more -- I call it 'incentivized buying."'
'Like Truffles Underground'
The Met's kylix was created during the golden age of Greek pottery, a period from about 550 B.C. to 350 B.C., when painters depicted all manner of scenes from mythology, wars, sports and the erotic encounters of humans, satyrs and gods. The Greeks used the cups, made from the country's iron-rich clay, at symposiums, the sometimes bawdy drinking parties that featured music, poetry and debate.
The kylix is thought to have traveled to Italy in trade with the Etruscans, whose civilization dominated central Italy in the centuries before the rise of the Roman republic.
Rich Etruscans coveted Attic pottery, which they most likely used for banquets, for daily life and as sanctuary offerings to a deity. Thousands of artifacts like the kylix were found in tombs, perhaps intended for use in the afterlife.
"The Etruscans were interested in the mythic stories depicted on many vases and also their role in drinking culture, as well as their beauty," said Sheramy Bundrick, a professor of art history at the University of South Florida. "It gave them cachet."
One early British collector, John Disney, explored an ancient Italian site in the 1820s and said that the remains of ancient vases were so plentiful they "seem to grow there like truffles underground." Some artifacts had been reduced to shards found buried just yards below the surface; others were discovered intact, protected by the volcanic rock from which Etruscan tombs were often carved.
Over time, thousands of the vases have been reconstructed from fragments found alongside each other. What some experts are concerned about are those rarer instances when vases have been reconstructed from shards that scattered and then turned up in the hands of multiple dealers.
Michael Vickers, professor emeritus of archaeology at Oxford University and a former curator at its Ashmolean Museum, is among those experts who said the sharp, crisp edges of some fragments are evidence of fresh breaks that occurred in modern, not ancient, times. A piece of pottery that lay in the ground for 2,500 years would have more rounded, worn edges, he said.
Daniela Rizzo, an expert in illicit trafficking, said that while she agrees dealers have parceled out fragments from broken pottery in schemes intended to deflect attention, she does not think there is much intentional shattering of pottery by the thieves.
Rizzo, whose work over the past three decades helped Italy recover dozens of artifacts from foreign museums, said ancient vases break underground for many reasons. "The breakage is not voluntary, I've always rejected this hypothesis," she said.
A Puzzle With 2,500-Year-Old Pieces
In 1981, von Bothmer began to reconstruct the kylix, using the initial fragments that the Met had purchased.
He had already established himself as one of the greatest connoisseurs of ancient Greek art. Born in Germany, he studied at Oxford under Sir John Beazley, the legendary Greek art scholar, and moved to the United States where he served in the Army in the South Pacific and received a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart for bravery.
He had run into a bit of rough seas in 1972 when he persuaded the Met to purchase another ancient Greek vase, the Euphronios krater, for $ 1 million, an astounding sum at the time, from Robert Hecht, a major dealer who the authorities accused several times of antiquities trafficking but who was never convicted.
Italian authorities almost immediately demanded it back, saying it had been looted only a year earlier from an Etruscan tomb, and there was feverish attention in the press on their complaint. (The Met ultimately returned the krater in 2008.)
But von Bothmer's expert reputation only grew, in part because he was so accomplished at reassembling ancient vases from fragments with the help of conservators.
"It does require great knowledge, photographic memory and ability to understand, connoisseurship to identify and group them by author," said Sean Hemingway, the current lead curator of Greek and Roman art at the Met.
In a 1982 film, von Bothmer explained the epiphanies that helped him match fragments he had seen in disparate locations. "You come to the almost instant recognition that what you have in front of you on a Saturday afternoon in Paris," he said, "is bound to join a fragment perhaps not more than 2 ½ inches across in Oxford."
Von Bothmer did not leave detailed records of the process he used in recreating the kylix. But photographs of the Met's first reconstruction in 1981 show about two dozen fragments set against a modern white plaster bowl. Then and now conservators use a special reversible adhesive so that any joins can be easily undone.
The Met's current head of conservation, Lisa Pilosi, said that when remaking a cup, it's important to first check to see if the fragments are stable enough to handle without flaking.
"If there is an image," she said, "that makes it easier, just like a jigsaw puzzle. If not, you just have to go by the edges."
"It takes patience, someone who can see in three dimensions in their head," she said, adding, "it's not for someone who just needs instant gratification."
In 1988, the next batch of fragments arrived at the Met, sold to the museum by the owner of a gallery in Switzerland. The following year, two more fragments that fit the cup came to the Met, this time as a gift from von Bothmer's own extensive private collection.
Von Bothmer had become a voracious collector of ancient Greek artifacts, though some experts later discouraged curators from collecting privately in the same area of interest as their museum expertise, given the potential conflicts of interest.
"If donors know you are a collector, it opens the door to all kinds of situations where there could be rewards of the kind, 'I give this to the museum and this to you,"' said Elizabeth Marlowe, an art historian and the director of the museum studies program at Colgate University in New York.
The Met, however, says collecting by its curators is permitted under its guidelines, as long as any prospective purchase is offered to the Met first.
Slowly, the cup was coming into focus as the fragments arrived. It was a so-called red-figure kylix, a style in which the reddish figures are set against darkened backgrounds and have finer facial details -- innovations that introduced greater realism to Greek art. Von Bothmer had already attributed it to Makron, a painter celebrated in particular for his depiction of women and their garments.
On the interior of the cup, a bearded man and a woman in partial dress recline on a couch at a symposium, or drinking revel. The woman, perhaps a prostitute, is shown flicking dregs of wine from a cup at a target in a game the Greeks called kottabos. On the cup's exterior, older men pursue younger ones. One youth holds a cock, a love gift. Another holds a sponge for oils and a strigil, an instrument for scraping oil and sweat from the body.
The names of three men -- Hippodamas, Eukrates and Euryptolemos -- are inscribed on the outside, each followed by the word "kalos," which means "is handsome" or "is beautiful."
In 1994, some 16 years after the first fragments arrived, a final singular shard was given to the Met, again a gift from von Bothmer. He left no record of where he had gotten it, but at that point he carried out the final reconstruction that completed the cup.
"Dietrich turned what was a bunch of fragments into something that was beautiful," said Hemingway, the Met curator.
Coincidence, Connoisseurship or Conspiracy?
It is not clear how the dozens of fragments that were used to reconstruct the kylix came to be so widely dispersed. But it is clear, investigators said, that three of the dealers who sold those fragments to the Met would be linked to the illegal trafficking of antiquities.
And all of them had some kind of relationship with von Bothmer.
Fritz Bürki, who sold the Met the first fragments in 1978, was an expert in the reassembly of fractured artifacts. He had rebuilt the infamous Euphronios krater for Hecht, the dealer who sold it to von Bothmer and the Met. In 2001, Bürki admitted knowing that many artifacts he restored had been looted and that he occasionally acted as a frontman for Hecht in the sale of such artifacts, according to court records.
The second set of kylix fragments came from Summa Gallery, a Los Angeles dealership in which Hecht had partnered with Bruce McNall, a colorful U.S. businessman. McNall, a former part owner of the Los Angeles Kings hockey team who once owned a Canadian Football League team with the actor John Candy and Wayne Gretzky, said in an interview that he could not remember the kylix fragments.
But he acknowledged that Hecht often purchased items from Medici, the dealer who had Polaroids that showed parts of the kylix. The photographs were found during a 1995 raid on Medici's Geneva storeroom that turned up a hoard of looted artifacts and thousands of photographs of items that the authorities view as stolen.
"To my knowledge, everything was coming from wrong sources back then," McNall said. No one in the art world, he said, showed particular concern, including curators who he said thought they were preserving for public display items that might otherwise disappear into private collections.
In an interview, Medici said he could not recall the kylix and disputed the contention that the Polaroids constituted evidence that the depicted fragments had passed through his hands. He said he was frequently sent photographs by other dealers.
McNall, who unlike Hecht was never accused of antiquities trafficking, said he did not knowingly participate in any organized scheme to sell the kylix in pieces to the Met. But he agreed that dealers would parcel out fragments over time, in part to ensure that prices would escalate as collectors or museums closed in on completing an object.
"The last pieces are so valuable," he said.
The last of the fragments sold to the Met came in a 1988 purchase from Frieda Tchacos, a dealer who gave the Met a fragment for a second cup in 1990 to honor von Bothmer. Tchacos was arrested by Italian authorities in Cyprus in 2002 on charges of trafficking in looted art. She received an 18-month suspended sentence for handling smuggled goods.
Investigators with the Manhattan district attorney's office said that, based on a witness account, they believe Tchacos, who could not be reached for comment, had gotten her kylix fragments from Raffaele Monticelli, a man U.S. and Italian authorities identified as a major tomb raider before his death last year.
Some of the dealers who sold fragments to the Met had not been charged with any crimes related to antiquities when their fragments came to the museum. But Bogdanos said an expert like von Bothmer "could not have not known that these objects were looted."
In the late 1970s, concern in the museum world over looted objects did not burn as brightly as it does today. By the 1990s, though, when von Bothmer donated his last fragment to the reconstruction, museums had embraced stricter guidelines that frowned on the acquisition of ancient objects that lacked a back story.
"From the very first fragment, it was the responsibility of the Met to verify that they are not putting themselves in trouble," especially after the outcry over the Euphronios krater, said Christos Tsirogiannis, a forensic archaeologist and head of illicit antiquities research at the Ionian University in Greece. "Instead, in this case they collected all these fragments out of thin air with a provenance that had no details" beyond the names of the immediate suppliers.
Von Bothmer, who died in 2009, had long denied being lax in his acquisition standards or cavalier in accepting the krater.
"A dog shouldn't be treated the way they treated me," he said in an interview in 1972.
In a statement, the Met said: "All acquisitions met the Museum's standards at that time. As laws and guidelines on collecting have changed over time, so have The Met's policies and procedures."
The experts who dispute the theory that fragments are used to aid smuggling argue that shards could easily become dispersed at an archaeological dig if someone discovered a key shard first, paying less attention to other pieces that might have been farther away, and leaving them in the ground for others to find later in second or third digs.
Dealers, these experts said, are typically rivals unlikely to conspire with competitors, but capable of letting fragments become separated in the tumult of a busy workshop.
The seeming serendipity of their coming together in a museum can be explained by the strength of von Bothmer's expertise, Padgett, the former Princeton curator, said.
"Bothmer had a good eye," said Padgett, who called him "a man of deep principles."
But Marlowe, the art historian from Colgate, said the remarkable reunification of long lost fragments suggested other forces may have been at work.
"There are tens of thousands of fragments out there," she said. "I don't care how big your contact book is, there is no way you are going to connect the dots unless you already have advance knowledge and notification to look out for, say, some guy's left arm."
At his death, von Bothmer bequeathed the Met some 16,000 fragments, some of which are on display today in one of the two galleries named for him at the museum.
Occupying a central spot in one of the galleries is a second cup by Makron and Hieron that von Bothmer also put together from fragments.
It, too, is remarkable, not just because of its craftwork or the careful way it was reconstructed. Like the kylix just returned to Italy, the pieces for this second cup came to the Met over time from the very same group as the first: Bürki, Tchacos, McNall's gallery and von Bothmer himself, with an additional shard donated by Elizabeth Hecht, the tainted dealer's wife.
Bogdanos said he was aware of the second cup, describing it as an artifact of interest but not one currently part of an investigation.
It is hard, though, he said, to embrace the notion that some museum curators were just blessed when it came to finding the pieces they needed.
"Of all of the millions upon millions of fragments in the world, of all of the thousands of museums, of all the gin joints in the world, all the fragments came into my place?" he said. "And that's a coincidence?"
Additional reporting from Italy by Elisabetta Povoledo. Susan Beachy contributed research.
Photograph Above, Robert Hecht, whom the authorities have accused several times of antiquities trafficking. Above him, the Etruscan burial ground of Greppe Sant'Angelo, in a picture from 2009. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; CHRIS WARDE-JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR14); Above and right, pottery shards that were assembled into a Greek kylix, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FAR LEFT, METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART; ABOVE AND ABOVE LEFT, VIA DR. CHRISTOS TSIROGIANNIS) (AR14-AR15); From top: cup fragments, left, that were assembled, right, into the completed work; Dietrich von Bothmer in 1973; and a gallery at the Metropolitan Museum of Art named for von Bothmer, who for decades served as chief curator of Greek and Roman artifacts at the Met. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT AND ABOVE, METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART; JACK MANNING/THE NEW YORK TIMES; VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR15) This article appeared in print on page AR14, AR15.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Historic artifacts; Vases; Looting; Archaeology; Ceramics; Greek civilization

Location: Italy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/19/arts/kylix-cup-greek-metropolitan-museum.html

Title: An Ancient Cup's Bit-by-Bit Rebirth And the Story That's Behind It:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 23, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest P eriodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804560921

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ancient-cups-bit-rebirth-story-thats-behind/docview/2804560921/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Kylix Marvel: Why Experts Distrust the Story of an Ancient Cup’s Rebirth

Author: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom

Publication info: Bowley, Graham; Mashberg, Tom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kylix-marvel-why-experts-distrust-story-ancient/docview/2804315706/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — The first shards of pottery arrived at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1978, a purchase from a Swiss dealer. A second handful was bought from a Los Angeles gallery a year later.
These ceramic tidbits — part of the hodgepodge of ancient fragments that the museum routinely collected — bore the unmistakable designs of ancient Greek pottery. A Met expert thought they were a small part of a significant artifact, a drinking cup known as a kylix.
In dribs and drabs over the next 16 years, a remarkable pattern emerged — a Humpty Dumpty story with a happier ending. As hundreds of disparate shards of pottery arrived at the museum — some as purchases, some as gifts — dozens turned out to be parts of the same Greek kylix from roughly 490 B.C.
With great patience and puzzle-solving, the Met reconstructed the cup and decided it had been created by two notables of ancient ceramics: Hieron, the potter, and Makron, the painter.
One can imagine the excitement when the last fragment arrived in 1994. A terra-cotta kylix, created in Athens 2,500 years earlier, had been restored to life. The cup, 13 inches in diameter and depicting a man and a woman reclining on a couch, went on display five years later: an icon of ancient beauty as well as a testament to modern scholarship and technical expertise.
But law enforcement officials and a dozen archaeologists and art historians said in interviews that they believe that other, less serendipitous forces may also have been at work. They suggest that the individual shards of the kylix, which had likely been found together, were knowingly dispersed among dealers who sold them separately to the Met, their small size deflecting the kind of attention a complete cup would have drawn.
In September, the Manhattan district attorney’s office seized the kylix, now valued at more than $1 million, and declared it the product of looting. The office cited as evidence old Polaroids of some of the fragments that had been taken prior to their arrival at the Met. The photos had been found in the Geneva offices of Giacomo Medici, an accused Italian antiquities trafficker.
Investigators were struck by the fact that the fragments from a single cup — shards that had ostensibly lain together in the ground for centuries — ended up in the hands of different dealers or collectors who eventually sold or donated them to the Met.
Three of them were later associated with the sale of looted antiquities.
A fourth, it turned out, was Dietrich von Bothmer, who for decades served as chief curator of Greek and Roman artifacts at the Met. After he purchased the other fragments for the museum, von Bothmer surprisingly found shards in his own private collection that nearly completed the piece, including the final fragment he gave to the Met in 1994.
Nowhere, according to the Met’s records, did he or any of the others indicate where they had gotten the fragments.
David Gill, an archaeologist and fellow with the Centre for Heritage at the University of Kent in England, is among the experts who believe the Makron kylix was illicitly excavated just before pieces of it began showing up at the museum. He views it as another example of a long employed, but seldom discussed, practice of using fragments to market illicit antiquities because intact artifacts would draw too much attention.
“If the Met had bought this complete cup attributed to Makron, there would have been jumping up and down,” Gill said. “Instead, it had bought a fragment, and it loses the impact.”
“It looks,” he continued, “as if they are just putting a jigsaw puzzle together.”
Many experts believe the smuggling of illicit fragments became a black market routine. Some experts go further, suggesting that thieves at times smashed intact antiquities, destroying markers of history that had survived for millenniums.
Matthew Bogdanos, the prosecutor with the Manhattan district attorney’s office who leads the Antiquities Trafficking Unit that seized the Met’s kylix, said the breaks in fragments on some cups appear to have been made strategically so that figures on the pottery remain intact.
“It does make you wonder how many items they destroyed before they got good at it,” he said.
Other experts, though, say looters do not have the patience to undertake a scheme that can take a decade or more to unfold. And even cumulatively, they argue, fragments from a cup would not nearly match the price of an intact artifact.
“They are worth much more unbroken!” said J. Michael Padgett, the former curator of ancient art at the Princeton University Art Museum.
Ancient artifacts, he said, are reconstructed, not through the intrigue of conspirators, but because expert, methodical researchers, with many contacts and special databases, are capable of making matches from a universe of orphaned shards.
But those who embrace the fragment theory suggest that there is little value to an intact vase if it can’t be successfully exported and that the prices of fragments soar if they are the last of the missing pieces.
“The first three fragments are not going to be of great value,” Bogdanos said. “Now more come on the market and the price of the fragments is driven up. The dealer says, ‘Hey, there are four more pieces!’ Now you want to pay more — I call it ‘incentivized buying.’”
‘Like Truffles Underground’
The Met’s kylix was created during the golden age of Greek pottery, a period from about 550 B.C. to 350 B.C., when painters depicted all manner of scenes from mythology, wars, sports and the erotic encounters of humans, satyrs and gods. The Greeks used the cups, made from the country’s iron-rich clay, at symposiums, the sometimes bawdy drinking parties that featured music, poetry and debate.
The kylix is thought to have traveled to Italy in trade with the Etruscans, whose civilization dominated central Italy in the centuries before the rise of the Roman republic.
Rich Etruscans coveted Attic pottery, which they most likely used for banquets, for daily life and as sanctuary offerings to a deity. Thousands of artifacts like the kylix were found in tombs, perhaps intended for use in the afterlife.
“The Etruscans were interested in the mythic stories depicted on many vases and also their role in drinking culture, as well as their beauty,” said Sheramy Bundrick, a professor of art history at the University of South Florida. “It gave them cachet.”
One early British collector, John Disney, explored an ancient Italian site in the 1820s and said that the remains of ancient vases were so plentiful they “seem to grow there like truffles underground.” Some artifacts had been reduced to shards found buried just yards below the surface; others were discovered intact, protected by the volcanic rock from which Etruscan tombs were often carved.
Over time, thousands of the vases have been reconstructed from fragments found alongside each other. What some experts are concerned about are those rarer instances when vases have been reconstructed from shards that scattered and then turned up in the hands of multiple dealers.
Michael Vickers, professor emeritus of archaeology at Oxford University and a former curator at its Ashmolean Museum, is among those experts who said the sharp, crisp edges of some fragments are evidence of fresh breaks that occurred in modern, not ancient, times. A piece of pottery that lay in the ground for 2,500 years would have more rounded, worn edges, he said.
Daniela Rizzo, an expert in illicit trafficking, said that while she agrees dealers have parceled out fragments from broken pottery in schemes intended to deflect attention, she does not think there is much intentional shattering of pottery by the thieves.
Rizzo, whose work over the past three decades helped Italy recover dozens of artifacts from foreign museums, said ancient vases break underground for many reasons. “The breakage is not voluntary, I’ve always rejected this hypothesis,” she said.
A Puzzle With 2,500-Year-Old Pieces
In 1981, von Bothmer began to reconstruct the kylix, using the initial fragments that the Met had purchased.
He had already established himself as one of the greatest connoisseurs of ancient Greek art. Born in Germany, he studied at Oxford under Sir John Beazley, the legendary Greek art scholar, and moved to the United States where he served in the Army in the South Pacific and received a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart for bravery.
He had run into a bit of rough seas in 1972 when he persuaded the Met to purchase another ancient Greek vase, the Euphronios krater, for $1 million, an astounding sum at the time, from Robert Hecht, a major dealer who the authorities accused several times of antiquities trafficking but who was never convicted.
Italian authorities almost immediately demanded it back, saying it had been looted only a year earlier from an Etruscan tomb, and there was feverish attention in the press on their complaint. (The Met ultimately returned the krater in 2008.)
But von Bothmer’s expert reputation only grew, in part because he was so accomplished at reassembling ancient vases from fragments with the help of conservators.
“It does require great knowledge, photographic memory and ability to understand, connoisseurship to identify and group them by author,” said Sean Hemingway, the current lead curator of Greek and Roman art at the Met.
In a 1982 film, von Bothmer explained the epiphanies that helped him match fragments he had seen in disparate locations. “You come to the almost instant recognition that what you have in front of you on a Saturday afternoon in Paris,” he said, “is bound to join a fragment perhaps not more than 2 1/2 inches across in Oxford.”
Von Bothmer did not leave detailed records of the process he used in re-creating the kylix. But photographs of the Met’s first reconstruction in 1981 show about two dozen fragments set against a modern white plaster bowl. Then and now conservators use a special reversible adhesive so that any joins can be easily undone.
The Met’s current head of conservation, Lisa Pilosi, said that when remaking a cup, it’s important to first check to see if the fragments are stable enough to handle without flaking.
“If there is an image,” she said, “that makes it easier, just like a jigsaw puzzle. If not, you just have to go by the edges.”
“It takes patience, someone who can see in three dimensions in their head,” she said, adding, “it’s not for someone who just needs instant gratification.”
In 1988, the next batch of fragments arrived at the Met, sold to the museum by the owner of a gallery in Switzerland. The following year, two more fragments that fit the cup came to the Met, this time as a gift from von Bothmer’s own extensive private collection.
Von Bothmer had become a voracious collector of ancient Greek artifacts, though some experts later discouraged curators from collecting privately in the same area of interest as their museum expertise, given the potential conflicts of interest.
“If donors know you are a collector, it opens the door to all kinds of situations where there could be rewards of the kind, ‘I give this to the museum and this to you,’” said Elizabeth Marlowe, an art historian and the director of the museum studies program at Colgate University in New York.
The Met, however, says collecting by its curators is permitted under its guidelines, as long as any prospective purchase is offered to the Met first.
Slowly, the cup was coming into focus as the fragments arrived. It was a so-called red-figure kylix, a style in which the reddish figures are set against darkened backgrounds and have finer facial details — innovations that introduced greater realism to Greek art. Von Bothmer had already attributed it to Makron, a painter celebrated in particular for his depiction of women and their garments.
On the interior of the cup, a bearded man and a woman in partial dress recline on a couch at a symposium, or drinking revel. The woman, perhaps a prostitute, is shown flicking dregs of wine from a cup at a target in a game the Greeks called kottabos. On the cup’s exterior, older men pursue younger ones. One youth holds a cock, a love gift. Another holds a sponge for oils and a strigil, an instrument for scraping oil and sweat from the body.
The names of three men — Hippodamas, Eukrates and Euryptolemos — are inscribed on the outside, each followed by the word “kalos,” which means “is handsome” or “is beautiful.”
In 1994, some 16 years after the first fragments arrived, a final singular shard was given to the Met, again a gift from von Bothmer. He left no record of where he had gotten it, but at that point he carried out the final reconstruction that completed the cup.
“Dietrich turned what was a bunch of fragments into something that was beautiful,” said Hemingway, the Met curator.
Coincidence, Connoisseurship or Conspiracy?
It is not clear how the dozens of fragments that were used to reconstruct the kylix came to be so widely dispersed. But it is clear, investigators said, that three of the dealers who sold those fragments to the Met would be linked to the illegal trafficking of antiquities.
And all of them had some kind of relationship with von Bothmer.
Fritz Bürki, who sold the Met the first fragments in 1978, was an expert in the reassembly of fractured artifacts. He had rebuilt the infamous Euphronios krater for Hecht, the dealer who sold it to von Bothmer and the Met. In 2001, Bürki admitted knowing that many artifacts he restored had been looted and that he occasionally acted as a frontman for Hecht in the sale of such artifacts, according to court records.
The second set of kylix fragments came from Summa Gallery, a Los Angeles dealership in which Hecht had partnered with Bruce McNall, a colorful U.S. businessman. McNall, a former part owner of the Los Angeles Kings hockey team who once owned a Canadian Football League team with actor John Candy and Wayne Gretzky, said in an interview that he could not remember the kylix fragments.
But he acknowledged that Hecht often purchased items from Medici, the dealer who had Polaroids that showed parts of the kylix. The photographs were found during a 1995 raid on Medici’s Geneva storeroom that turned up a hoard of looted artifacts and thousands of photographs of items that the authorities view as stolen.
“To my knowledge, everything was coming from wrong sources back then,” McNall said. No one in the art world, he said, showed particular concern, including curators who he said thought they were preserving for public display items that might otherwise disappear into private collections.
In an interview, Medici said he could not recall the kylix and disputed the contention that the Polaroids constituted evidence that the depicted fragments had passed through his hands. He said he was frequently sent photographs by other dealers.
McNall, who unlike Hecht was never accused of antiquities trafficking, said he did not knowingly participate in any organized scheme to sell the kylix in pieces to the Met. But he agreed that dealers would parcel out fragments over time, in part to ensure that prices would escalate as collectors or museums closed in on completing an object.
“The last pieces are so valuable,” he said.
The last of the fragments sold to the Met came in a 1988 purchase from Frieda Tchacos, a dealer who gave the Met a fragment for a second cup in 1990 to honor von Bothmer. Tchacos was arrested by Italian authorities in Cyprus in 2002 on charges of trafficking in looted art. She received an 18-month suspended sentence for handling smuggled goods.
Investigators with the Manhattan district attorney’s office said that, based on a witness account, they believe Tchacos, who could not be reached for comment, had gotten her kylix fragments from Raffaele Monticelli, a man U.S. and Italian authorities identified as a major tomb raider before his death last year.
Some of the dealers who sold fragments to the Met had not been charged with any crimes related to antiquities when their fragments came to the museum. But Bogdanos said an expert like von Bothmer “could not have not known that these objects were looted.”
In the late 1970s, concern in the museum world over looted objects did not burn as brightly as it does today. By the 1990s, though, when von Bothmer donated his last fragment to the reconstruction, museums had embraced stricter guidelines that frowned on the acquisition of ancient objects that lacked a back story.
“From the very first fragment, it was the responsibility of the Met to verify that they are not putting themselves in trouble,” especially after the outcry over the Euphronios krater, said Christos Tsirogiannis, a forensic archaeologist and head of illicit antiquities research at the Ionian University in Greece. “Instead, in this case they collected all these fragments out of thin air with a provenance that had no details” beyond the names of the immediate suppliers.
Von Bothmer, who died in 2009, had long denied being lax in his acquisition standards or cavalier in accepting the krater.
“A dog shouldn’t be treated the way they treated me,” he said in an interview in 1972.
In a statement, the Met said: “All acquisitions met the Museum’s standards at that time. As laws and guidelines on collecting have changed over time, so have The Met’s policies and procedures.”
The experts who dispute the theory that fragments are used to aid smuggling argue that shards could easily become dispersed at an archaeological dig if someone discovered a key shard first, paying less attention to other pieces that might have been farther away, and leaving them in the ground for others to find later in second or third digs.
Dealers, these experts said, are typically rivals unlikely to conspire with competitors, but capable of letting fragments become separated in the tumult of a busy workshop.
The seeming serendipity of their coming together in a museum can be explained by the strength of von Bothmer’s expertise, Padgett, the former Princeton curator, said.
“Bothmer had a good eye,” said Padgett, who called him “a man of deep principles.”
But Marlowe, the art historian from Colgate, said the remarkable reunification of long lost fragments suggested other forces may have been at work.
“There are tens of thousands of fragments out there,” she said. “I don’t care how big your contact book is, there is no way you are going to connect the dots unless you already have advance knowledge and notification to look out for, say, some guy’s left arm.”
At his death, von Bothmer bequeathed the Met some 16,000 fragments, some of which are on display today in one of the two galleries named for him at the museum.
Occupying a central spot in one of the galleries is a second cup by Makron and Hieron that von Bothmer also put together from fragments.
It, too, is remarkable, not just because of its craftwork or the careful way it was reconstructed. Like the kylix just returned to Italy, the pieces for this second cup came to the Met over time from the very same group as the first: Bürki, Tchacos, McNall’s gallery and von Bothmer himself, with an additional shard donated by Elizabeth Hecht, the tainted dealer’s wife.
Bogdanos said he was aware of the second cup, describing it as an artifact of interest but not one currently part of an investigation.
It is hard, though, he said, to embrace the notion that some museum curators were just blessed when it came to finding the pieces they needed.
“Of all of the millions upon millions of fragments in the world, of all of the thousands of museums, of all the gin joints in the world, all the fragments came into my place?” he said. “And that’s a coincidence?”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Historic artifacts; Art galleries & museums; Vases; Archaeology; Ceramics; Greek civilization

Location: Italy; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: History (Academic Subject); Canada; Philanthropy; Switzerland; Canadian Football League; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Archaeology And Anthropology; Arts; Florida; Great Britain; Greece; United States; Entertainment; Ceramics And Pottery; Princeton University; Marvel Entertainment; Photography; Restoration And Renovation; Germany; Museums; Athens (Greece); Princeton University Art Museum; England; Roman Civilization; Finances; Cyprus; Italy; Los Angeles Kings; Art; Gretzky, Wayne; Discrimination; Scholarships And Fellowships; Smuggling; Euphronios Krater; Los Angeles (Calif); International Relations; Oxford (England); Candy, John; Black Markets; Puzzles; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); Ashmolean Museum; Beauty (Concept); Traffic And Parking Violations; Tombs And Tombstones; Bothmer, Dietrich Von; Collectors And Collections; Vandalism; Robberies And Thefts; Looting (Crime); Bowley, Graham; Geneva (Switzerland); Oxford University; Greek Civilization; Television; Colgate University; Medici, Giacomo; Arts And Antiquities Looting; Padgett, J Michael; Tsirogiannis, Christos; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Colleges And Universities; District Attorneys; Appointments And Executive Changes; Metropolitan Museum Of Art; Fish And Other Marine Life; Beverages; University Of South Florida; Southern States (Us); United States Army; Conflicts Of Interest

Title: The Kylix Marvel: Why Experts Distrust the Story of an Ancient Cup’s Rebirth

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-22T15:56:45Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 28043157 06

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kylix-marvel-why-experts-distrust-story-ancient/docview/2804315706/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gourmet Dog Foods Perk Up Ears Of Humans, but Will Fido Dig In?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gourmet-dog-foods-perk-up-ears-humans-will-fido/docview/2801857018/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Like so many 2-year-olds, Bear is a picky eater.
When Bear, a 120-pound Great Pyrenees, seemed bored with the dry food his owner, Margaret Pless, fed him day after day, she gave him canned food from Costco. Bear hated it. Next, she tried pricey refrigerated dog food. When that failed to please Bear's palate, Ms. Pless made his food for a few months. He liked it, but it was an exhausting, time-consuming process, and she was left wondering whether Bear was getting all the nutrients he needed.
So in November 2021, Ms. Pless signed up for a subscription to The Farmer's Dog, which provides customized dog food marketed as made with human-grade ingredients. The recipe list reads more like a homemade stew: beef or turkey with vegetables, such as carrots and brussels sprouts. The food is cooked at low temperatures before being portioned out and shipped to Ms. Pless's home in Dover, Mass.
"The company made claims that dogs would love this food and never get tired of it," said Ms. Pless, a part-time church administrator and dog boarder, who said she was spending up to $ 13 per day feeding Bear the human-grade food, up from the dry-food cost of around $ 3 per day.
But Bear was unimpressed. "At first he was excited," Ms. Pless said. "And then he was like, 'Oh, it's this stuff again,' and he got bored."
Dog ownership boomed during the pandemic, with Americans buying or adopting millions of pets, including canines. Sales of dog food surged to around $ 25 billion last year, up nearly 39 percent from $ 18 billion in 2019, according to the consumer research firm NIQ.
But as inflation has driven up the prices of even conventional kibble, the options in the dog food aisle have become increasingly bespoke and expensive. There are holistic, plant-based varieties, and those with freeze-dried goat and wild boar. Some options are frozen and raw. Last year, "Saturday Night Live" poked fun at the industry with a skit featuring a couple in a grocery store chiding another shopper for not feeding her pet "real food."
One of the fastest-growing and most competitive categories is human-grade dog food, such as the kind Ms. Pless bought for Bear from The Farmer's Dog. According to the Association of American Feed Control Officials, a nongovernmental organization that provides guidance to the industry on animal feeds, human-grade dog food contains fresh ingredients -- like meats or vegetables -- that are fit for human consumption, and is manufactured in a plant that is federally regulated and inspected.
Although humans can technically eat human-grade dog food, it may contain nutrients that are not suitable for people, said Austin Therrell, the organization's executive director.
Companies like The Farmer's Dog, Ollie and others are marketing their fresh pet food as less processed and more closely resembling human diets. Veterinarians and animal nutritionists say many of these new brands are targeting wealthier consumers who treat their animals as if they were children -- so-called fur babies -- and want to match their dogs' diets to their own eating habits. Some are selling the food directly to consumers, through subscription services.
These fresh-food makers are also benefiting from a wave of distrust among certain dog owners over the concentration of large companies dominating the pet food industry. Dry kibble is typically made from surplus meats and byproducts, like livers and kidneys, from the human food industry. Wet and dry ingredients are mixed to form a dough that is heated under pressure and pushed through a die machine that cuts it into the kibble pieces.
The family-owned Mars may be best known for Snickers, M&Ms and Wrigley chewing gum, but those brands have been eclipsed by its pet business, which includes more than 1,000 VCA Animal Care hospitals nationwide and food brands like Royal Canin and Pedigree. Likewise, Purina pet food and care, owned by Nestlé, was one of the largest and fastest-growing categories last year for the food giant. This year, the cereal company Post Holdings plans to buy the pet food brands Rachael Ray Nutrish, 9 Lives and others from J.M. Smucker for $ 1.2 billion.
"There are definitely a ton of new pet food products on the market and more coming on every day," said Cailin Heinze, a board-certified veterinary nutritionist and executive director of the Mark Morris Institute, a nonprofit organization that provides education on pet nutrition to veterinarians. The institute is funded by Hill's Pet Nutrition, which is owned by Colgate-Palmolive.
Dr. Heinze said that while many of the newer brands claimed to be less processed or to contain "real ingredients," there was little research showing that they were more nutritious than the dry or canned dog food that millions of Americans had been feeding their pets for decades.
"Many are pushing natural or healthy, and people look at the ingredient list and assume because they recognize everything that the diet has to be healthier," Dr. Heinze said. "It's giving these companies a health halo, even if there is no science behind it, and the other diet has 40 years of research."
One area of particular concern is dog food marketed as "grain free." Much of it contains high levels of peas, lentils and other legumes that may be linked to an increased risk of cardiac disease in dogs. The Food and Drug Administration said it did not have "sufficient data" to find a link and encouraged continued research.
"There are many different ways to provide good nutrition for a dog," said Jonathan Regev, who started The Farmer's Dog in 2014 with Brett Podolsky, after Mr. Podolsky's dog had stomach issues that his veterinarian believed were caused by the dog's food. The Farmer's Dog uses a variety of proteins, vegetables and occasionally legumes in its products.
Joseph Wakshlag, a professor at Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine, worked as a consultant with The Farmer's Dog on its recipes. Mr. Wakshlag said in an email that many human-grade and refrigerated dog foods were "nice options, as long as they are complete and balanced." He added that they were sometimes higher in fat and protein, which is fine for healthy dogs but may not work for dogs with certain medical conditions.
After Patrick and Jennifer Cunningham, both physicians in a Chicago suburb, saw the Farmer's Dog commercial during this year's Super Bowl, they gave it to their Shih Tzus, Strudel and Machiavelli.
The dogs are converts. "They don't like it; they love it," Dr. Cunningham said. "Strudel gets so excited. She doesn't quite howl but yelps with joy when we are mixing it."
Dr. Cunningham estimates that he is spending about $ 100 a month on the human-grade food versus $ 40 for dry kibble.
For Bear, though, The Farmer's Dog did not live up to his owner's high hopes. After spending $ 9 to $ 13 per day on it for six months, plus dry kibble, Ms. Pless canceled her subscription. She has gone back to regular bags of dry kibble and rotating them when Bear becomes bored.
"Bottom line: I don't believe that dog foods made with human-grade ingredients are more effective than regular kinds of dog food," Ms. Pless said. "There are many premium dog foods that are not made with human-grade ingredients that work just as well for a lower price."
Photograph "They don't like it; they love it," said Patrick Cunningham, who subscribed to The Farmer's Dog for his two Shih Tzus, Strudel and Machiavelli, after seeing the brand's ad during this year's Super Bowl. He spends $ 100 a month on the food. (B1); Ms. Pless sprinkling cheese on Bear's regular dry kibble. She rotates flavors to help make his meals more enjoyable.; Margaret Pless tried feeding Bear, right, her 120-pound Great Pyrenees, human-grade food from The Farmer's Dog, but he quickly grew tired of it, so she switched back to his regular dry kibble. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRISTAN SPINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Veterinary medicine; Pet food; Consumers; Ingredients; Nutrition research; Veterinarians; Dogs; Legumes

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/12/business/human-grade-dog-food.html

Title: Gourmet Dog Foods Perk Up Ears Of Humans, but Will Fido Dig In?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 17, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801857018

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gourmet-dog-foods-perk-up-ears-humans-will-fido/docview/2801857018/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gourmet Dog Food Has Some Pet Owners Sending Kibbles Back

Author: Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gourmet-dog-food-has-some-pet-owners-sending/docview/2801805294/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Like so many 2-year-olds, Bear is a picky eater.
When the 120-pound Great Pyrenees seemed bored with the dry food his owner, Margaret Pless, fed him day after day, she gave him canned food from Costco. Bear hated it. Next, she tried pricey refrigerated dog food. When that failed to please Bear’s palate, Pless made his food for a few months. He liked it, but it was an exhausting, time-consuming process, and she was left wondering whether Bear was getting all the nutrients he needed.
So in November 2021, Pless signed up for a subscription to the Farmer’s Dog, which provides customized dog food marketed as made with human-grade ingredients. The recipe list reads like a homemade stew: beef or turkey with vegetables, such as carrots and Brussels sprouts. The food is cooked at low temperatures before being portioned out and shipped to Pless’ home in Dover, Massachusetts.
“The company made claims that dogs would love this food and never get tired of it,” said Pless, a part-time church administrator and dog boarder, who said she was spending up to $13 per day feeding Bear the human-grade food, up from the dry-food cost of around $3 per day.
But Bear was unimpressed.
“At first he was excited,” Pless said. “And then he was like, ‘Oh, it’s this stuff again,’ and he got bored.”
Dog ownership boomed during the pandemic, with Americans buying or adopting millions of pets, including canines. Sales of dog food surged to around $25 billion last year, up nearly 39% from $18 billion in 2019, according to the consumer research firm NIQ.
But as inflation has driven up the prices of even conventional kibble, the options in the dog food aisle have become increasingly bespoke and expensive. There are holistic, plant-based varieties and those with freeze-dried goat and wild boar. Some options are frozen and raw. Last year, “Saturday Night Live” poked fun at the industry with a skit featuring a couple in a grocery store chiding another shopper for not feeding her pet “real food.”
One of the fastest-growing and most competitive categories is human-grade dog food, like the kind Pless bought for Bear from the Farmer’s Dog. According to the Association of American Feed Control Officials, a nongovernmental organization that provides guidance to the industry on animal food, human-grade dog food contains fresh ingredients — like meats or vegetables — that are fit for human consumption, and is manufactured in a plant that is federally regulated and inspected.
Although humans can technically eat human-grade dog food, it may contain nutrients that are not suitable for people, said Austin Therrell, the organization’s executive director.
Companies like the Farmer’s Dog, Ollie and others are marketing their fresh pet food as less processed and more closely resembling human diets. Veterinarians and animal nutritionists say that many of these new brands are targeting wealthier consumers who treat their animals as if they were children — so-called fur babies — and want to match their dogs’ diets to their own eating habits. Some are selling the food directly to consumers through subscription services.
These fresh-food makers are also benefiting from a wave of distrust among certain dog owners over the concentration of large companies dominating the pet food industry. Dry kibble is typically made from surplus meats and byproducts, like livers and kidneys, from the human food industry. Wet and dry ingredients are mixed to form a dough that is heated under pressure and pushed through a die machine that cuts it into the kibble pieces.
Family-owned Mars may be best known for Snickers, M&Ms and Wrigley chewing gum, but those brands have been eclipsed by its pet business, which includes more than 1,000 VCA Animal Care hospitals nationwide and food brands like Royal Canin and Pedigree. Likewise, Purina pet food and care, owned by Nestlé, was one of the largest and fastest-growing categories last year for the food giant.
This year, cereal company Post Holdings plans to buy the pet food brands Rachael Ray Nutrish, 9 Lives and others from J.M. Smucker for $1.2 billion.
“There are definitely a ton of new pet food products on the market, and more coming on every day,” said Cailin Heinze, a board-certified veterinary nutritionist and executive director of the Mark Morris Institute, a nonprofit organization that provides education on pet nutrition to veterinarians. The institute is funded by Hill’s Pet Nutrition, which is owned by Colgate-Palmolive.
Heinze said that while many of the newer brands claim to be less processed or to contain “real ingredients,” there is little research showing that they are more nutritious than the dry or canned dog food that millions of Americans have been feeding their pets for decades.
“Many are pushing natural or healthy, and people look at the ingredient list and assume, because they recognize everything, that the diet has to be healthier,” Heinze said. “It’s giving these companies a health halo, even if there is no science behind it, and the other diet has 40 years of research.”
One area of particular concern is dog food marketed as “grain free.” Much of it contains high levels of peas, lentils and other legumes that may be linked to an increased risk of cardiac disease in dogs. The Food and Drug Administration said it did not have “sufficient data” to find a link and encouraged continued research.
“There are many different ways to provide good nutrition for a dog,” said Jonathan Regev, who started the Farmer’s Dog in 2014 with Brett Podolsky, after Podolsky’s dog had stomach issues that his veterinarian believed were caused by the dog’s food. The Farmer’s Dog uses a variety of proteins, vegetables and occasionally legumes in its products.
Joseph Wakshlag, a professor at the Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine, worked as a consultant on Farmer’s Dog recipes. Wakshlag said in an email that many human-grade and refrigerated dog foods are “nice options, as long as they are complete and balanced.” He added that they are sometimes higher in fat and protein, which is fine for healthy dogs but may not work for dogs with certain medical conditions.
After Patrick and Jennifer Cunningham, both physicians in a Chicago suburb, saw the Farmer’s Dog commercial during this year’s Super Bowl, they gave it to their Shih Tzus, Strudel and Machiavelli.
The dogs are converts.
“They don’t like it; they love it,” Patrick Cunningham said. “Strudel gets so excited. She doesn’t quite howl but yelps with joy when we are mixing it.”
Cunningham estimates that he is spending $100 a month on the human-grade food versus $40 for dry kibble.
For Bear, though, the Farmer’s Dog did not live up to his owner’s high hopes. After spending $9 to $13 per day on it for six months, plus dry kibble, Pless canceled her subscription. She has gone back to regular bags of dry kibble and rotating them when Bear becomes bored.
“Bottom line: I don’t believe that dog foods made with human-grade ingredients are more effective than regular kinds of dog food,” Pless said. “There are many premium dog foods that are not made with human-grade ingredients that work just as well for a lower price.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Veterinary medicine; Pet food; Consumers; Ingredients; Nutrition research; Veterinarians; Dogs; Legumes

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Massachusetts; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Food And Drug Administration; Dogs; Diet And Nutrition; Mars Inc; Costco Wholesale Corporation; Cooking And Cookbooks; Turkeys; Food; Pets; Livestock; United States; Nestle Sa; Agriculture And Farming; Super Bowl; Pyrenees Mountains; Candy; Personal Finances; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Pet Foods; Wrigley, Wm Jr, Co; Hill's Pet Nutrition; Research; Advertising And Marketing; Weight; Veterinary Medicine; News And News Media; Colgate Palmolive Company; Cornell University; Family Business; France; Chewing Gum; Vegetables; Animals; Proteins; Boredom; Business; Creswell, Julie; Post Holdings Inc

Title: Gourmet Dog Food Has Some Pet Owners Sending Kibbles Back

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-16T22:29:14Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801805294

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gourmet-dog-food-has-some-pet-owners-sending/docview/2801805294/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

There's Only One College Rankings List That Matters: [Op-Ed]

Author: Bruni, Frank

Publication info: Bruni, Frank. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-only-one-college-rankings-list-that/docview/2793588372/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: DURHAM, N.C. -- Within a few months of joining the faculty at Duke University in 2021, I could spot them: the high school seniors, juniors and even sophomores on their pilgrimages to our verdant and coveted wonderland, with its Gothic Revival spires, ecstatic basketball fans and acceptance rate of 6 percent.
They stood out less for their youth than for their yearning. Sometimes they walked alongside parents every bit as rapt as they were. Sometimes they wandered alone, in a trance. Sometimes they showed up at my office door, not because they were looking for me but because they were looking around, and they liked to peek in on the professors in their path.
We were diamonds, rubies and sapphires in a Cartier display case.
Did they plan to study specifically with one of us? Was our institution particularly strong in the academic disciplines that interested them? Most of them couldn't really tell me why they wanted Duke. They just knew that they should want it. It would validate them. It would impress their friends. Translation: It was highly ranked -- currently tied for the 10th-best university in the country, ahead of half of the Ivy League, according to the justly embattled but perversely enduring bible for such matters, U.S. News & World Report.
To many anxious teenagers making what feels like the most important decision of their lives, that marker must mean something, so they let it mean almost everything. They come to believe that the luster of the institution they attend, as established by its ranking and its exclusivity, will not only define their place in the world but also determine their professional success and contentment. And they minimize other, better criteria for choosing a college.
That belief in the make-or-break stakes of highly selective schools informs the legal challenge to affirmative action that's currently before the Supreme Court. The case was filed by students who maintain that the policy of considering an applicant's race hurt their chances of admission. The court is expected to rule in June; a majority of justices seem poised to ban such consideration going forward.
None of this drama surprises me. For almost a decade now, I've been writing about and railing against the way in which so many Americans, especially affluent ones, approach the process of applying to colleges, which at some point over the past quarter century devolved into a scholastic version of "The Hunger Games." I've lamented its toll on mental health. I've rued its emphasis on credentials over character and on a rigid, cautious script for education over an organic plot of genuine discovery. I've bemoaned its conflation of brand with worth.
But beyond all that, the process too often fails to do precisely what a new tool that Times Opinion is introducing today does: encourage college-bound students to pause, reflect deeply on what sort of experience they truly want, factor in what's logistically and financially realistic for them and consider a list of colleges assembled along those lines, with fuzzy and subjective metrics like prestige eliminated from the equation.
Over recent decades, tuition at many public and private schools has risen much faster than inflation in general, to heights that have led millions of students to take on a magnitude of debt that dogs them and dictates their job decisions deep into their post-college lives. Still other students wonder whether college is even worth it in the end. The sticker price for tuition, room, board and required fees at some private schools is now over $ 80,000 per year.
Small wonder, then, that when The Times and Morning Consult surveyed 2,000 young people between the ages of 16 and 19 and another 2,000 between the ages of 22 and 30, those respondents rated the affordability of tuition and their likely earnings after graduation as the most important factors in the college experience -- many times more important than, say, whether varsity sports are a major part of campus life or how small the size of a typical class is.
The Times's interactive interface lets students see the colleges whose alumni tend, on average, to earn the highest incomes a decade after enrollment.
A student body's racial diversity, its economic diversity, its overall size and whether a school is in an urban, suburban or rural location: These attributes and more can be added to a search and weighted, to produce a menu of options that align with students' specific preferences and, more to the point, their most closely held values. That's only fitting: Where to attend college is a big decision, if not nearly as consequential as many young people believe, because college is a serious commitment of time and money. It shouldn't be outsourced to U.S. News, Forbes or any other organization spitting out a one-size-fits-all hierarchy with a debatable methodology dictated by nameless, faceless number crunchers.
And maybe we're inching toward the day when it won't be. Since the publication of my book about all of this, "Where You Go Is Not Who You'll Be: An Antidote to the College Admissions Mania," in 2015, I've seen baby steps of progress, especially over the past year. In November, Yale and Harvard announced that their law schools would no longer participate in U.S. News rankings. Several similarly venerated law schools and several top-ranked medical schools followed suit. Then, last month, Colorado College pulled out of the U.S. News rankings of national colleges, though it had consistently landed in the top 30. In a statement explaining that decision, its president observed that the rankings are driven largely by the magnitude of an institution's wealth and general, longstanding reputation. Both measures tend to be self-perpetuating. Neither tells students all that much about what their experience at a school will be like.
"I have a lot of hope that this is the turning point," Angel Pérez, the chief executive officer for the National Association for College Admission Counseling, told me recently. Pérez has been working in the field of college admissions for decades -- he was in charge of admissions at Trinity College in Hartford, Conn., for many years. He said that change is definitely in order, because too many students simply take the most obvious cues from the culture around them, latching onto national or regional brand names that seem vaguely dependable. During his travels around the country to talk with prospective college applicants, he has had students reflexively proclaim, "I want to go to Harvard!"
"And I'd say, 'Where is Harvard located?' They couldn't tell me," he recalled.
Of course, most high school students who want a college degree can't and don't harbor such ambitions. They need to go to college part-time, to choose public institutions within commuting distance from their parents' homes, to select the cheapest option or to find a place that takes almost all comers, because they struggled through high school and emerged with unremarkable transcripts. Only a privileged minority of young people can even think about playing "The Hunger Games," and many of them simply turn in whatever direction all the other contestants are headed.
Brian Casey, the president of Colgate University, marveled to me: "Our applications for admission, which hovered around 9,000 for many, many years, suddenly doubled to 17,500. Then they increased to over 21,000. We have to turn away students who want tours and we find ourselves looking at an admit rate of 10 percent. Has this deterred students from applying? No. We find interest growing even further. I am left wondering: Is Colgate more desirable because it is more desired?"
Well, yes. Higher education is a marketplace. And many of its consumers care more about how they can outwardly trade on their college degree than about how it will inwardly transform them. "I saw this firsthand during a lunch with first-year students that had just unpacked their bags the prior day," David Schanzer, a fellow professor of public policy at Duke, wrote in December in his newsletter, Perilous Times. "I started the lunch conversation asking the students what they were most looking forward to about college and, I kid you not, one of them asked me what activities they should do to maximize their chances for admission to law school. When I answered that the best approach was to find something they loved doing and doing it well and that Duke didn't have a pre-law program, the student's response was, 'Why not?"'
The Times's tool is a helpful and necessary instrument for pushing back against such superficial judgments. As I instructed it to show me only schools in cities and suburbs, and then adjusted the degree of importance I wanted it to place on, say, "campus safety" or "party scene," I watched the list of institutions change and then change again. And I was struck by a sense of possibility -- by how much is out there and how frequently that's overlooked.
I was conversely impressed by how well college-bound students could home in on a short list of schools truly tailored to their needs. The madness of the admission process and students' sense of desperation would be lessened greatly if they simply weren't applying to so many more schools than their predecessors did.
A few weeks ago, I reached out to students I've taught at Duke and asked them about the work and worry that propelled them here. Few had qualms with how everything turned out. Many had misgivings about the journey to this point.
Sophie Riegel, a psychology major who will graduate in May, said that no one could have convinced her younger self "that a brand-name school is overrated, that I'd be happy anywhere." "In my mind," she wrote in an email to me, "if I didn't get into Duke, my life was over." She finds that silly now. The way she described her college years, they have been less about some charmed environment than about the discrete challenges she took on and the specific skills she decided to hone. Duke was to some extent incidental in that. "Maybe it's time people ask themselves why they are going to college," she wrote. "Getting a degree is not equivalent to getting an education."
Mia Meier, an interdisciplinary studies major also nearing the end of her time at Duke, expressed a similar puzzlement at the weight that she and her high school classmates attached to the names of the colleges they applied to. "I would tell a high school sophomore to find ways of building self-esteem outside of anchoring it to their college aspirations," Meier wrote to me, adding that energy is better spent "participating in a community, serving others or nurturing creativity and a sense of wonder."
As I read Riegel's and Meier's responses, I got an unsolicited email from one of those high school students who'd shown up at my office door. "I recently got deferred from Duke, however, it still remains my #1 choice," he wrote. "I am still willing to do anything to get in."
I replied: "I promise you that you'll love other schools on your list, too." But I knew, as I pressed send, how unlikely he was to believe that. Heedlessly, we've constructed a culture that gives him and his peers a different, crueler message, clouding the real purpose and promise of college -- and sullying the joy of it.
Illustration by Rose Wong. Graphics by Quoctrung Bui and Gus Wezerek.
Frank Bruni (@FrankBruni) is a professor of journalism and public policy at Duke University, the author of "The Beauty of Dusk" and a contributing Opinion writer. He writes a weekly email newsletter and can be found on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. He graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
Illustration by Rose Wong. Graphics by Quoctrung Bui and Gus Wezerek.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page SR8.

ERIC Subject: Private Schools; College Applicants; Urban Schools; High School Students; Young Adults; Hunger; Intellectual Disciplines; College Admission; Tuition; College Bound Students; School Safety

Subject: Students; Law schools; College admissions; Private schools; Secondary schools

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/27/opinion/problem-college-rankings.html

Title: There's Only One College Rankings List That Matters:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2793588372

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-only-one-college-rankings-list-that/docview/2793588372/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Roman Emperor Is Seized From the Met: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Mashberg, Tom; Bowley, Graham

Publication info: Mashberg, Tom; Bowley, Graham. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roman-emperor-is-seized-met/docview/2793301338/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Investigators said there was evidence that the bronze, on loan to the museum and valued at $ 25 million, had been stolen from Turkey.
Septimius Severus ruled ancient Rome as emperor for nearly two decades, and a seven-foot-tall statue that researchers say depicts him presided over the Greek and Roman galleries at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for the past 12 years.
But now the headless bronze statue, dating to 225 A.D. and valued at $ 25 million, is gone, one of the latest antiquities to be seized from the museum, whose collection has been repeatedly cited in recent months as containing looted artifacts.
The investigators who seized the statue said it had been stolen from Bubon, an archaeological site in southwest Turkey, in the 1960s. Another 17 items at the museum were characterized as looted artifacts in seizure actions filed by the Manhattan district attorney's office over the past three months.
Those filings are part of a larger surge of warrants and seizure orders issued recently by the prosecutors to recover illicitly obtained antiquities from museums, galleries, auction houses and collectors across the United States, according to court records.
In addition to the Met, the authorities seized items from the San Antonio Museum of Art, the Princeton University Art Museum and the Fordham University Museum of Greek, Etruscan and Roman Art, according to court records.
The statue of the emperor, which was on loan to the Met from a Swiss lender, is one of three items from the museum that are being returned to Turkey. Researchers said the statue was most likely one of a group of figures originally set up in a shrine in Bubon where members of the imperial family were worshiped during the period when Rome ruled the area.
"It was a shrine to the imperial cult," said Elizabeth Marlowe, director of the museum studies program at Colgate University, who has tracked the statue's history.
The bronze is important, in part, she said, because it is so rare. "This was a repository of extraordinary sculptures," she said. "Most bronze statues were melted down in antiquity. But this site was somehow neglected. They were buried. They survived."
History depicts Septimius Severus, who ruled from 193 to 211 A.D., as a wily African-born Roman general who outmaneuvered four rivals to assume the emperor's seat and establish a new imperial dynasty. When it put the statue on display in the museum's Roman Court in 2011, the Met identified the bronze as "Statue of a Male Nude Figure" without specifying the figure's identity, and in a wall label said there was reason to question whether it was a depiction of the emperor. But researchers and the district attorney's office have identified it as a statue of Septimius Severus.
A second antiquity that will be returned to Turkey from the Met is a bronze head of Caracalla, Severus's eldest son, that is thought to have been made between 211 and 217 A.D. and is valued at $ 1.25 million. Caracalla succeeded Severus as emperor and had a reputation as a tyrant who used fear and bloodshed to rule. Researchers said they believe the bronze head was also looted from Bubon.
Recovering items stolen from Bubon and other sites has been a major goal of Turkish officials for decades. In the 1960s, investigators said, statues were dug up by local farmers and sold, rather than reported to the Turkish government as was required by a 1906 law and other statutes.
"The looting back then was done as a commercial enterprise for the villagers," said Matthew Bogdanos, the chief of the district attorney's Antiquities Trafficking Unit.
He said that farmers had used tractors to dig at the site, which had been largely buried under soil and debris from centuries of earthquakes and landscape changes.
The prosecutors were aided in their inquiry by investigators from U.S. Homeland Security Investigations and Turkish authorities.
The return of antiquities "sends a clear and strong message to all smugglers, dealers and collectors that illegal purchase, possession and sale of cultural artifacts will have consequences," Reyhan Ozgur, Turkey's consul general in New York, said at a ceremony last week when 12 items, valued at $ 33 million, were given back to Turkish officials.
Turkish and New York officials have said the investigation was greatly helped by some of the farmers who had been involved in the 1960s looting. They were able to identify which items they had stolen by looking at images from catalogs and museum websites shown to them by investigators, the officials said.
Investigators said many of the items from Turkey were smuggled into Switzerland and passed through the hands of Robert Hecht, an antiquities dealer who was based for a time in New York and who died in 2012. The investigators said their current inquiry into Hecht's past dealings had helped lead them to information about the Turkish objects.
Already returned to Turkey last year by investigators was another statue said to have been stolen from Bubon. The largely intact eight-foot-tall bronze depicts the Roman emperor Lucius Verus and dates from the second century A.D. It is valued at $ 15 million and was taken last spring from the home of a well-known New York collector, donor and Met trustee, Shelby White, investigators said.
Peter A. Chavkin, a lawyer for Mrs. White, said she "acquired these objects in good faith and will continue to cooperate with the D.A.'s investigation as she has in the past."
Among the items at the Met identified by investigators as looted are 15 artifacts associated with Subhash Kapoor, the former Manhattan art dealer who has been accused of smuggling more than 2,500 objects from India and South Asia into the United States over 30 years.
The Met issued a statement on Thursday that said it was ready to transfer the 15 sculptures to India after learning they had been illegally removed from that country.
"The Museum is actively reviewing the history of antiquities from suspect dealers," the statement said. "The Museum values highly its long-standing relationships with the government of India, and is pleased to resolve this matter."
Also being returned to Turkey from the Met is a stone sculpture described as a Perge Theater Head that dates to 290 A.D. and is valued at $ 250,000. Investigators said the marble head, which was on loan to the museum from a private collector, was stolen from Perge, another heavily looted archaeological site.
Photograph Above, an ancient bronze statue that investigators say represents the Roman emperor Septimius Severus. Right, a damaged head of the Roman emperor Caracalla, dating to 211-217 A.D., is also being returned to Turkey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE; THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Historic artifacts; Historic buildings & sites; Looting; Investigations; District attorneys; Sculpture

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; India

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/30/arts/met-museum-statue-seized.html

Title: A Roman Emperor Is Seized From the Met:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793301338

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roman-emperor-is-seized-met/docview/2793301338/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

4.9 Million Fabuloso Bottles Recalled for Bacteria Risk

Author: Holpuch, Amanda

Publication info: Holpuch, Amanda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/4-9-million-fabuloso-bottles-recalled-bacteria/docview/2774301805/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
About 4.9 million bottles of multipurpose cleaning product Fabuloso have been recalled because they may contain a bacteria that can cause a serious infection in people with weakened immune systems and others with health risks, the Consumer Product Safety Commission said Wednesday.
The recalled products were sold online through Amazon and other websites as well as in brick-and-mortar stores including Dollar General, Family Dollar, Walmart and Home Depot from December 2022 through January. Several sizes of Fabuloso were recalled in scents including lavender, lemon and ocean.
Fabuloso’s manufacturer, Colgate-Palmolive, said in a statement that a preservative had not been added “at the intended levels” during the manufacturing process and that the “inadequate” amount of the preservative might have allowed bacteria to grow.
The recalled products may include Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Pseudomonas fluorescens, bacteria that can enter the body through inhalation, the eyes or a break in the skin. The recall notice said that people with healthy immune systems were not usually affected by the bacteria, but people with weakened immune systems, external medical devices or underlying lung conditions could contract a serious infection if exposed to it.
The commission said that no incidents or injuries had been reported from the recalled product.
Colgate-Palmolive advised people to stop using the recalled cleaners and not to empty the bottles before throwing them away. About 3.9 million of the recalled bottles had not been sold, Colgate-Palmolive said. The recall also included about 56,000 bottles of the cleaner sold in Canada.
People who purchased the recalled bottles should contact Colgate-Palmolive for a refund or for a free replacement product. “We remain committed to maintaining the highest level of product quality and have taken action to help ensure we live up to those standards,” the company said.
The recall did not include bottles of Fabuloso antibacterial cleaner or other Fabuloso products. The recalled and unaffected products are listed online.
Fabuloso debuted in Venezuela in the 1980s, then gained popularity in Mexico before it was introduced in the United States in 1996 and became the cleaner of choice for many Latino households.
Fabuloso is the latest cleaning brand to recall products because they may contain bacteria. About 37 million bottles of scented Pine-Sol were recalled in October, and about 8 million bottles of the Laundress brand products were recalled in December. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Infections; Product safety; Product recalls; Bacteria

Business indexing term: Subject: Product recalls

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Consumer Product Safety Commission--CPSC; NAICS: 926150; Name: Colgate-Palmolive Co; NAICS: 311911, 325611, 325620

Identifier / keyword: Business; Canada; Consumer Product Safety Commission; Mexico; Venezuela; United States; Family Dollar Stores Inc; Walmart Stores Inc; Home Depot Inc; Dollar General Corp; Laundress Llc; Colgate Palmolive Company; E Commerce; Infections; Toothbrushes And Toothpaste; Cleansers, Detergents And Soaps; Personal Finances; Immune System; Bacteria

Title: 4.9 Million Fabuloso Bottles Recalled for Bacteria Risk

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-08 @ 14:49

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774301805

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/4-9-million-fabuloso-bottles-recalled-bacteria/docview/2774301805/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Imbuing an Essence: [Correction]

Author: Kaplan, Ilana

Publication info: Kaplan, Ilana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/imbuing-essence/docview/2772541922/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Poppy Liu plays a blackjack dealer in "Hacks." And has been working nonstop ever since.
Name: Poppy Liu
Age: 32
Hometown: Xi'an, China
Now Lives: In a one-bedroom ranch-style home on the East Side of Los Angeles with their partner, Jonah Tucker.
Claim to Fame: Poppy Liu is a first-generation Chinese American actor who plays Kiki, a sassy private blackjack dealer in the HBO series "Hacks." Although Ms. Liu's characters do not always identify as nonbinary or queer, "if they cast me in it, I'm like, 'Well, this character is a little bit queer now,"' said Ms. Liu, who uses "they" for a pronoun. "I think the essence of who you are is always present, and I really embrace that." They are also a doula to women of color and transgender people, and founded Collective Sex, a queer production company dedicated to inclusive stories about sex and healing.
Big Break: After graduating from Colgate University in 2013, Ms. Liu moved to New York City and landed various roles in downtown theater. In 2019, a casting call for "Sunnyside," an immigration sitcom created by Kal Penn, led to the part of Mei Lin, a Chinese billionaire's daughter. "I didn't always see the stories that represent the people that I care about," they said. "So, having my first experience on this incredible show with this ensemble became like a mini family."
Latest Project: They recently played Mitzi, the spoiled daughter of a mafia boss, in the Hulu romantic thriller "Wedding Season." But Ms. Liu's focus has been on parenthood, after giving birth in December. "It happened really quickly, so I don't know if I even had time to get existential about it," they said.
Next Thing: Ms. Liu has a recurring role in Season 2 of "The Afterparty," a murder-mystery comedy on Apple TV+, as well as on "American Born Chinese," an action-comedy series on Disney+, in which they play Princess Iron Fan, "a celestial girlboss" who can be "emotionally manipulative." While it's hard to pick favorites, they are most excited about a role in "Dead Ringers," a drama series on Amazon Prime Video. The character "is different than anything else I've done," they said. "The whole tone of the show is quite dark, it's very broody."
Reproductive Fight: They serve on the board of the SisterSong Women of Color Reproductive Justice Collective, a group in Atlanta, and has helped a Mandarin-speaking patient who had a complex pregnancy. "I came on as her doula but ended up being her primary translator at the hospital as well," they said.
Photograph The actor Poppy Liu also is a doula and started a production company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACLYN CAMPANARO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Ms. Liu stars in "Hacks" with Jean Smart, left, and Hannah Einbinder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNERMEDIA) This article appeared in print on page ST9.

Subject: Doulas; Non-binary gender; Actors; Minority & ethnic groups

Title: Imbuing an Essence:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 5, 2023

column: Up Next

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772541922

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/imbuing-essence/docview/2772541922/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bringing a Little Queerness to Acting Roles

Author: Kaplan, Ilana

Publication info: Kaplan, Ilana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bringing-little-queerness-acting-roles/docview/2772530260/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Name: Poppy Liu
Age: 32
Hometown: Xi’an, China
Now Lives: In a three-bedroom ranch-style home on the East Side of Los Angeles with their partner, Jonah Tucker.
Claim to Fame: Poppy Liu is a first-generation Chinese American actor who plays Kiki, a sassy private blackjack dealer in the HBO series “Hacks.” Although Liu’s characters do not always identify as nonbinary or queer, “if they cast me in it, I’m like, ‘Well, this character is a little bit queer now,’” said Lui, who uses “they” for a pronoun. “I think the essence of who you are is always present, and I really embrace that.” They are also a doula to women of color and transgender people, and founded Collective Sex, a queer production company dedicated to inclusive stories about sex and healing.
Big Break: After graduating from Colgate University in 2009, Liu moved to New York City and landed various roles in downtown theater. In 2019, a casting call for “Sunnyside,” an immigration sitcom created by Kal Penn, led to the part of Mei Lin, a Chinese billionaire’s daughter. “I didn’t always see the stories that represent the people that I care about,” they said. “So, having my first experience on this incredible show with this ensemble became like a mini family.”
Latest Project: They recently played Mitzi, the spoiled daughter of a mafia boss, in the Hulu romantic thriller “Wedding Season.” But Liu’s focus has been on parenthood, after giving birth in December. “It happened really quickly, so I don’t know if I even had time to get existential about it,” they said.
Next Thing: Liu has a recurring role in Season 2 of “The Afterparty,” a murder-mystery comedy on Apple TV+, as well as on “American Born Chinese,” an action-comedy series on Disney+, in which they play Princess Iron Fan, “a celestial girlboss” who can be “emotionally manipulative.” While it’s hard to pick favorites, they are most excited about a role in “Dead Ringers,” a drama series on Amazon Prime Video. The character “is different than anything else I’ve done,” they said. “The whole tone of the show is quite dark, it’s very broody.”
Reproductive Fight: They serve on the board of the SisterSong Women of Color Reproductive Justice Collective, a group in Atlanta, and has helped a Mandarin-speaking patient who had a complex pregnancy. “I came on as her doula but ended up being her primary translator at the hospital as well,” they said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Doulas; Non-binary gender; Actors; Minority & ethnic groups

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Los Angeles (Calif); HuluCom; Atlanta (Ga); Sunnyside (Queens, Ny); Penn, Kal; Apple Tv; New York City; Colgate University; Xi'an (China); Disney Plus; Home Box Office; Apple Tv Plus; China; Sunnyside (Tv Program); Minorities; Midwives And Doulas; Transgender And Transsexuals; Actors And Actresses; Theater; Chinese Americans; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Pregnancy And Childbirth

Title: Bringing a Little Queerness to Acting Roles

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 4, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-04 @ 19:39

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772530260

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bringing-little-queerness-acting-roles/docview/2772530260/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Russell Banks, Novelist Who Explored Poverty And Race, Dies at 82: [Correction]

Author: Chace, Rebecca

Publication info: Chace, Rebecca. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russell-banks-novelist-who-explored-poverty-race/docview/2761831855/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He brought his own sometimes painful blue-collar experiences to bear in acclaimed stories exploring issues of race, class and power in American life.
Russell Banks, whose vivid portrayals of working-class Americans grappling with issues of poverty, race and class placed him among the first ranks of contemporary novelists, died on Sunday at his home in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 82.
His literary agent, Ellen Levine, said the cause was cancer.
The prolific author of 21 works of fiction and nonfiction, Mr. Banks brought his own blue-collar background to bear in his writing, delving into the psychological pressure of life in economically depressed towns in the Northeast, their stark reality often shadowed by the majestic Adirondacks of northern New York State.
"In Banks's world, geography is a kind of grim destiny," Jennifer Schuessler wrote in The New York Review of Books in 2008.
Two of his novels, "Continental Drift" (1985) and "Cloudsplitter" (1998), were finalists for the Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
"Continental Drift," his breakthrough novel, proclaimed itself with a bold statement: "This is an American story of the late 20th century."
Bob Dubois, a disillusioned New Englander looking for a break in Florida, and Vanise Dorsinville, a young Haitian woman trying to make her way to that state by any means necessary, drove the narrative as Mr. Banks traced his personal reckoning with race and class through the separate trajectories of these two disparate characters.
The result was a "visionary epic about innocence and evil and a shattering dissection of contemporary American life," Michiko Kakutani of The New York Times wrote.
Literary accolades and acclaim soon followed. Mr. Banks received the John Dos Passos Prize for Literature in 1985 as well as his first Pulitzer Prize nomination.
In his monumental work "Cloudsplitter," Mr. Banks took on John Brown, the radical abolitionist who was hanged in 1859 after leading an armed assault on a federal armory at Harpers Ferry, in what is now West Virginia, in a failed attempt to establish a bastion for freed slaves in the surrounding mountains.
This ambitious and fully realized novel struck close to home for Mr. Banks, who lived for eight months a year in Keene, N.Y., a small Adirondacks town close to the John Brown farm and burial site. Mr. Banks took his title from a Native American word that he, like many people, wrongly believed was the original Algonquin name for Mount Marcy, the highest peak in the Adirondacks, which can be seen from John Brown's farm. (That name was actually given to the mountain by a 19th-century American writer.)
Discussing the foundations of the book in The Paris Review in 1998, he said, "I am interested in the whole question of the possibility of heroism, especially in a secular age and especially in a democratic society."
He noted that many Americans, particularly Black ones, considered Brown a hero, while other Americans, particularly many white ones, viewed him as a criminal madman. And he observed that groups on the fringes of American life -- radical anti-abortionists and extremist militias, for instance -- had evoked Brown's name, making Mr. Banks further aware of Brown's contemporary resonance.
"Is there such a thing as heroism?" he asked in the interview.
Mr. Banks's writing developed from a self-consciously experimental style in his early books to the gritty realism that brought him renown. And as he became more self-confident as a writer, he increasingly connected his own life experiences to his explorations of American mythology -- as he did in "Rule of the Bone" (1995), in which a young rebel rejects what passes for civilization to light out for parts unknown.
That book's 14-year-old narrator, Chappie, follows in his author's footsteps as he flees upstate New York and heads south with little more than youthful bravado. Mr. Banks had made the same journey at 18.
In an authorial nod to "Huckleberry Finn," Chappie tells his tale with swagger: "You'll probably think I'm making a lot of this up just to make me sound better than I really am or smarter or even luckier but I'm not."
In much of Mr. Banks's writing, his concerns about race, class and power repeatedly surfaced, with particular attention given to the powerless and the overlooked, especially his outwardly unremarkable blue-collar characters.
"There's an important tradition in American writing, going back to Mark Twain and forward to Raymond Carver and Grace Paley, whose work is generated by love of people who are scorned and derided," Mr. Banks told The Guardian in 2000. "I have an almost simple-minded affection for them. My readers are not the same as my characters, as I'm very aware. So I'm glad when they feel that affection too."
Russell Earl Banks was born on March 28, 1940, in Newton, Mass., just west of Boston. His father, Earl Banks, was a plumber, and his mother, Florence (Taylor) Banks, was a homemaker and bookkeeper.
The eldest of four children, Russell was raised in Barnstead, N.H., a small town about 90 miles to the north. He was open about his father's alcoholism and the physical abuse his father inflicted on him as a child -- a blow to the head cost him the mobility of his left eye -- but he also acknowledged his conflicting feelings about him.
"I don't remember not being physically afraid of my father," he told People magazine in 1989. "I hated my father, and I adored him."
Earl Banks left when Russell was 12, and the family moved back to Massachusetts, settling in Wakefield, where Russell worked odd jobs to help support his mother and siblings. He excelled in school, earning a full scholarship to Colgate University and becoming the first in his family to attend college.
Colgate at that time was an all-male institution for sons of the upper middle class. Russell left after eight weeks, hitchhiking through a snowstorm with the romantic notion of joining Fidel Castro's revolution in Cuba. He was already thinking of himself as an artist -- inspired by the spirit, if not the stream-of-consciousness writing style, of Jack Kerouac, another son of Massachusetts, whose explosive novel "On the Road" was published when Russell was 17.
"Kerouac was a working-class boy from Lowell, and it wasn't too hard to make an identification," Mr. Banks told the literary journal Ploughshares in 1993.
He told The Paris Review: "I only got as far as Miami. By that time Castro was marching into Havana and didn't need me anymore. Also, I realized I didn't quite know how to get from Key West to Cuba and I couldn't speak Spanish."
Remaining in Florida for a time, he worked odd jobs, including a stint as a mannequin dresser at a Montgomery Ward department store, where he met Darlene Bennett, a salesclerk. They married and eventually moved to Boston, where their daughter, Lea, was born in 1960. Mr. Banks found work in a bookstore, fell in with a literary crowd and began to write poetry and short stories.
"Bohemianism is a useful way for a person to drop out of the class wars of America," he told Ploughshares.
In 1963, after a brief return to New Hampshire, where he worked as a plumber and pipe fitter alongside his father, Mr. Banks attended the Bread Loaf Writers Conference at Middlebury College in Vermont, where he met his first real mentor, the novelist Nelson Algren. By this time he had divorced his first wife and married Mary Gunst, a poet, with whom he had three daughters. When her wealthy parents offered to pay his tuition to attend the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, he gratefully accepted.
While at college, he co-founded a small literary press and magazine, Lillabulero, and entered into the social ferment of the civil rights era, becoming involved with Students for a Democratic Society and participating in protests. He graduated with honors in 1967.
During this time he published two volumes of poetry; a first novel, "Family Life" (1975); and his first short-story collection, "Searching for Survivors" (1975), which won an O. Henry Award.
The family eventually returned to southern New Hampshire, where Mr. Banks began teaching creative writing at New England College. He taught at several other institutions over the decades, including Sarah Lawrence and Columbia; in 1982 he joined the faculty at Princeton University, where his colleagues included Toni Morrison and Joyce Carol Oates.
His mature prose style began to emerge in "Hamilton Stark" (1978), a critically acclaimed novel about a misanthropic New Hampshire pipe fitter, not unlike his father. His next novel, "The Book of Jamaica" (1980), revolved around a white American living in Jamaica who wrestles with his embedded racism and the country's colonialist history. Both novels were ambitious works that sought to dismantle the unfulfilled promises of America through the gimlet eye of the white working class.
"Continental Drift" had its roots in "The Book of Jamaica." Beginning in 1976, Mr. Banks spent a year and a half in Jamaica on a grant from the Guggenheim Foundation; while there he became obsessed with the history of that island nation as well as the entire Caribbean basin.
That period was a moral turning point for him, as he explained in The Paris Review.
"I began to live my life more consciously and aggressively in racial and class terms, laying the ground on which I stood a few years later when I wrote 'Continental Drift,"' he said. He would make the Haitian immigrant Vanise one of that book's central characters.
Building on the success of that novel, Mr. Banks spent the 1980s and '90s solidifying his craft in works like "Affliction" (1989), a father-son story dealing with domestic violence. Mr. Banks dedicated that book to his father and admitted to The Guardian that his own experiences were omnipresent in it.
"He died in 1979," he said of his father, "and yet he appears in my dreams two or three times a week, as he was in his mid-40s, when he was at his most powerful. He left a residue of violence my neurons are still patterned around."
"The Sweet Hereafter" (1991), a novel based on a fatal school bus crash in Alton, Texas, in 1989, focuses on the way such an accident changes a small town forever. Ms. Kakutani wrote in The Times that it "underscores the innate precariousness of our lives, our susceptibility to grief and loss and hurt."
Film versions of his work brought Mr. Banks recognition beyond the literary world. "The Sweet Hereafter" (1997), adapted and directed by Atom Egoyan, received two Academy Award nominations. Mr. Banks himself appeared in the movie as a doctor.
A film version of "Affliction," adapted and directed by Paul Schrader and also released in 1997, starred Sissy Spacek, Nick Nolte, Willem Dafoe and James Coburn. It was nominated for two Oscars, and Mr. Coburn won for best supporting actor.
Mr. Banks received many awards and fellowships. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the Academy of Arts and Letters and served as president of the International Parliament of Writers. He was the official New York State author from 2004 to 2008.
His marriage to Ms. Gunst ended in divorce in 1977. A third marriage, to Kathy Walton, a book editor, in 1982, ended in divorce in 1988. He married the poet Chase Twichell in 1989.
She survives him, along with Lea Banks, his daughter from his first marriage; three daughters, Caerthan, Maia and Danis Banks, from his second marriage; a brother, Stephen; a sister, Linda Banks; a half sister, Kathleen Banks-Nutter; two grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
Mr. Banks's own intentions as a writer are summed up in his narrator's closing lines in "Continental Drift":
"Good cheer and mournfulness over lives other than our own, even wholly invented lives -- no, especially wholly invented lives -- deprive the world as it is of some of the greed it needs to continue to be itself. Sabotage and subversion, then, are this book's objectives. Go, my book, and help destroy the world as it is."
Alex Traub contributed reporting.
Alex Traub contributed reporting.
Photograph Russell Banks vividly portrayed working-class Americans. "Continental Drift," his breakthrough novel, proclaimed itself with a bold statement: "This is an American story of the late 20th century." (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. Banks in 1962, shortly after he had begun writing stories. His writing evolved from an experimental style to gritty realism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER SCHLAIFER) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: American literature; Writers; Contemporary literature; Deaths

People: Banks, Russell (1940- )

Title: Russell Banks, Novelist Who Explored Poverty And Race, Dies at 82:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2761831855

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russell-banks-novelist-who-explored-poverty-race/docview/2761831855/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions