____________________________________________________________

The Place to Be and to Bop: [Correction]

Author: Jackson, Mia

Publication info: Jackson, Mia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/place-be-bop/docview/2910905136/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Dizzy Gillespie helped make Minton's Playhouse famous.
Minton's in Harlem was where jazz musicians, from out-of-towners to locals performing in nearby big band theaters in Harlem, sought refuge during late-night jam sessions and a new genre, bebop, was born. Gillespie, together with Charlie Parker, is largely considered a pioneer of the rebellious jazz style that diverged from mainstream swing jazz's emphasis on orchestrated productions and collective harmony. Instead, it ushered in an era of artistic experimentation that better reflected the realities of Black urban life and the talents of Black musicians.
"Jam sessions, such as those wonderfully exciting ones held at Minton's Playhouse, were seedbeds for our new, modern style of music," Gillespie wrote in his autobiography, "To Be or Not to Bop."
But there was another gathering spot for Gillespie and his peers: the three-story Colonial Revival-style building in Corona, Queens, that he bought in 1953.
Jazz clubs were in Harlem. But jazz musicians lived on the tree-lined streets of Queens. While white musicians skedaddled to the suburbs, Black jazz virtuosos sought solace in the neighborhoods where their racial identity was welcomed -- ultimately congregating into two enclaves in the borough. The first was in the southeast by Addisleigh Park where the composer Clarence Williams and his wife moved in the 1930s, with Count Basie, Lena Horne, Duke Ellington's son, Mercer Ellington, and James Brown eventually following suit. The second was in Corona, where Louis Armstrong lived until his death, and a place that Gillespie, fellow trumpeter Clark Terry, and Ella Fitzgerald once called home.
Queens had the charm of the South, conveniences of the northern lifestyle and was close enough to the teeming jazz scene of Harlem without being ensnared. The borough didn't generate a fresh jazz genre like Harlem. But the borough was an incubator where music got worked out, imagined and revised, as Black musicians were grappling with the commercialization of their craft.
In June, the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission honored the formal and informal spaces from which New York's jazz scene spawned and flourished by designating three sites as landmarks for their cultural significance to modern jazz -- the building at 935 St. Nicholas Avenue in Washington Heights where Duke Ellington and Noble Lee Sissle once lived; Minton's and its home the Hotel Cecil; and Gillespie's house at 105-19 37th Avenue in Corona.
Although Gillespie lived in Corona after bebop had been established as a genre, he continued to hone his craft while living in Queens. He adopted his iconic bent trumpet and recorded several popular albums, including "Jazz at Massey Hall" (1954), and "Manteca" (1958), "and appeared live in 1956 from his home in a broadcast interview on Edward R. Murrow's "Person to Person" television program.
Gillespie often invited fellow musicians to his basement to play alongside him.
"Dizzy, Babs Gonzales, and I would mainly spend time down in the basement because that's where he would rehearse," said Ernest Gillespie, Dizzy's cousin. Ernest Gillespie, now 96, lived in nearby East Elmhurst during that time and currently resides in Fresh Meadows, Queens.
The basement housed a full set of drums, a piano, and eventually a pool table and train set. The fridge in the basement was always stocked with Carlsberg Elephant, his favorite beer. The walls were adorned with art from other countries, souvenirs collected during his time as the nation's first jazz ambassador. Starting in 1956, the State Department financed Gillespie and his band to travel across the world promoting democratic values.
Gillespie also nurtured many up-and-coming musicians. "I met Count Basie, Ella Fitzgerald, and Junior Mance in that basement," said Dizzy's godson, Harris Stratyner, now 68, who was a budding saxophone and clarinet player at the time. "Dizzy really was a teacher. He would teach the young cats how to play and how to follow rhythms and it all happened in his basement in Corona."
Jeanie Bryson, 65, Gillespie's daughter and an accomplished singer in her own right, lived in nearby LeFrak City along with her mother, the composer Connie Bryson, who was never married to Gillespie.
The father-daughter relationship, hidden from public view, was limited, but Ms. Bryson recalled how her father would visit and she remembered his mentorship of musicians fondly.
"He helped so many young musicians from different countries and gave these guys an opportunity that was beyond their imagination at the time," Ms. Bryson said.
Gillespie was married to Lorraine Gillespie, who was also his personal manager. They had no children together, but they built a family in the neighborhood. On the outside, their home was an ordinary red brick building much like the other homes in the area, including their neighbor's, Louis Armstrong, who lived around the corner. Armstrong's home was designated a historic landmark in 1988 and opened for public tours in 2003.
Armstrong bought a home in Corona with his wife, Lucille Armstrong, in 1943, a full decade before the Gillespies. Here, he carved out a humble life in a neighborhood of predominantly Italian immigrants and a growing community of middle-income Black residents. "We're right out here with the rest of the colored folk and the Puerto Ricans and Italians and the Hebrew cats," Armstrong told Ebony magazine in 1964. "What the hell I care about living in a 'fashionable' neighborhood?"
His classic hit, "What a Wonderful World," was written by Bob Thiele and George David Weiss as a tribute to Armstrong's beloved Corona.
The demographics of the neighborhood have changed in the decades since, with Latino immigrants replacing Italian immigrants in the 1960s, drawn by relatively affordable real estate and a welcoming attitude, the same forces that once lured Black newcomers. Now, the neighborhood is a hub for the next generation of Mexican, Ecuadoreans and Dominican residents.
There are very few public acknowledgments of the period when Black musicians called Corona home. The Corona East Elmhurst Historic Preservation Society has long argued that the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission has not properly recognized the historical significance of Queens properties. The society filed the initial petition in 2015 to have Gillespie's home designated a landmark, but was denied. "Corona East Elmhurst, with its rich history and significant traditions is in jeopardy of becoming a negligible factor in the thought of the world," the group wrote in the initial petition.
"We felt we needed to create this society to preserve, protect, and promote the history and legacy so future generations will know the greatness of the community," said Deborah Tyson, one of the founders of the local society.
The landmarking of Gillespie's home is a step toward memorializing both a jazz legend and a moment when jazz musicians sought refuge in the borough, often overshadowed by the legacy of Harlem and places like Minton's.
Minton's Playhouse opened on the first floor of the former Hotel Cecil in 1938, a year before the start of World War II. As riots, unemployment and discontent swung into the collective consciousness of Americans in the 1940s, Minton's provided a sanctuary from wartime and racial tensions allowing Black musicians to tinker with musical styles without fear of retribution and to create new art forms. Bebop was a sonic chronicle of the world as its creators experienced it -- a tapestry of anguish, discontent, and soul-stirring improvisation spun from within the marginalized spaces of the music industry.
"One of the really interesting things to think about as this designation is directed to the Hotel Cecil and Minton's and to Dizzy Gillespie's home is that it speaks to me of the ways bebop was quite famously developed in clubs like Minton's, and especially Minton's, but also a lot of those ideas got worked out in rehearsals that often happened in people's homes," said Eric Porter, a professor of history at University of California, Santa Cruz. "Whether they were rehearsing for a recording or just hanging out and thinking about music, the basement studios were really important for the development of bebop as well."
Nonprofits in Queens are building on this moment. The Louis Armstrong House Museum is partnering with Flushing Town Hall and the Kupferberg Center for the Arts to create an interactive digital experience that maps the histories of jazz and hip-hop in Queens. This new effort builds upon the Queens Jazz Trail map originally commissioned by Flushing Town Hall in 1998.
Jazz fans "live across the country or the world and they may never make it to New York, but they are able to engage with our mission and with our stories," said Regina Bain, the executive director of the Armstrong museum in a news release in 2022.
Across the street from the house museum sits the shiny, 14,000-square-foot Louis Armstrong Center which opened to the public in July. The Louis Armstrong Stadium at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens was rebuilt and reopened back in 2018, replacing the 1978 tennis stadium of the same name.
But education still needs to happen locally, particularly within the neighborhood's public schools, Ms. Tyson said. "We've had a lot of musicians and significant people of color who have lived in our community and we wanted to tell the story because we want the children to know," she said. "The teachers didn't even know about all this information."
For now, much of the history lives in the memories of residents who lived in the neighborhood as children or can recall their parents' encounters. "My mother used to talk about how Dizzy Gillespie and Louis Armstrong would sit on their stoop and play out in the block and the kids would come around and hang about," Ms. Tyson said.
The Queens Borough President's Office, in collaboration with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, has been placing banners, murals and signage along the AirTrain's John F. Kennedy Airport route from Jamaica, Queens, as a small, but insufficient attempt to bring awareness to the borough's rich musical heritage.
"We need to try to preserve the history because there aren't many people left who know the story of the community," Ms. Tyson said. "We have places that are worthy of preservation. They may not look like a brownstone or a mansion on Fifth Avenue, but it doesn't mean they aren't worthy of preservation as well."
Photograph Above, Dizzy Gillespie with his signature bent trumpet in 1955. A red brick Colonial Revival-style home in Corona, Queens, top and above left, which the bebop pioneer purchased two years earlier, was designated a landmark by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARL VAN VECHTEN COLLECTION/GETTY IMAGES; NYC MUNICIPAL ARCHIVES; MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1); Above, from left: Minton's Playhouse in Harlem, where Dizzy Gillespie and others developed bebop; the entrance of Mr. Gillespie's home in Corona, Queens; and the Louis Armstrong House Museum, which is around the corner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES; MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Above, Ella Fitzgerald with Dizzy Gillespie in New York City in 1947. Below, Ernest Gillespie, 96, with his son, Philip Gillespie, and his daughter, Anita GillespieWallace. Below right, photographs of Dizzy with Philip and Anita. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM PAUL GOTTLIEB/UNIVERSAL IMAGES GROUP, VIA GETTY IMAGES; MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE6) This article appeared in print on page RE1, RE6.

Subject: Genre; Houses; Musicians & conductors; Immigrants; Musical performances; Historic preservation; Neighborhoods; Museums; Jazz

Business indexing term: Subject: Museums

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Fitzgerald, Ella; Ellington, Duke (Edward Kennedy Ellington) (1899-1974); Gillespie, Dizzy; Basie, Count (William Basie) (1904-1984)

Title: The Place to Be and to Bop:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 7, 2024

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2910905136

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/place-be-bop/docview/2910905136/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Seattle, Dishes From Land and Sea: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Gallagher, Brian; Clement, Bethany Jean; Rao, Tejal

Publication info: Gallagher, Brian; Clement, Bethany Jean; Rao, Tejal. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seattle-dishes-land-sea/docview/2875247164/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the Where to Eat: 25 Best series, we're highlighting our favorite restaurants in cities across the United States. These lists will be updated as restaurants close and open, and as we find new gems to recommend. As always, we pay for all of our meals and don't accept free items.
Archipelago
Filipino, Tasting Menu
It's rare for the chef to check in with diners at the end of the tasting menu and make sure they're feeling full, but Archipelago isn't like any other tasting. A puff of pan de sal pulls apart effortlessly, filling the air with a sweet, buttery perfume. Burning pine needles and the rich, muscly scent of shrimp paste waft over from the open kitchen. Cooks walk around with a tray of sliced rib-eye steak, offering seconds. You could easily get lost in the deliciousness of the modern Filipino food, but Aaron Verzosa and Amber Manuguid do more than send out excellent food. They tell complicated, expansive stories about the Pacific Northwest and the many ways that Filipino immigrants have shaped it, using words, pictures and even some unexpected dance moves behind the pass. TEJAL RAO
5607 Rainier Avenue South, Seattle; no phone; archipelagoseattle.com
Artusi
Italian
Spinasse is often hailed as the city's best Italian restaurant, and its simple tajarin with butter and sage as a top Seattle dish. Capitol Hill neighbors know, though, that the chef Stuart Lane also runs the menu at the adjoining Artusi, which, just like Spinasse, offers four splendid handmade pastas per night, at considerably less expense. The windowed corner space here feels buzzy and urbane, and for $ 32, you can get every lovely appetizer on the menu -- even the hazelnuts, candied in muscovado sugar with Controne chile and fennel pollen, are especially tasty. The screaming dinner deal on Sunday and Monday -- two pastas and a bottle of wine for $ 45 -- is hard to beat. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
1535 14th Avenue, Seattle; 206-251-7673; artusibar.com
Ba Bar
Vietnamese
Seattle has many pho options -- and you may end up in a real argument if you try to declare a best -- but the phở hà nội style here is superlative. Made with marrow bones from organic, grass-fed cattle, the broth is simmered for 24 hours and has a fortifying balance of beefy, gingery flavors, spiked with heat from pickled bird's-eye chiles. The imperial rolls will spoil you for any others, with a blistered, shattering fried rice-paper wrapping. And the cocktail menu, inflected with tropical notes like tamarind, pineapple and orgeat, is impressive without being self-serious. Which is nice when the Vietnamese chicken wings pair so well with, say, a Wenatchee sling, and the Capitol Hill location is open until midnight. BRIAN GALLAGHER
550 12th Avenue, Seattle; 206-328-2030; babarseattle.com
Bar del Corso
Italian
Now more than 10 years old, this Pacific Northwest trattoria has become an anchor for the Beacon Hill neighborhood. The Neapolitan pizzas are canonical; cooked in an Italian-built wood-fired oven, they are pillowy-crusted and kissed with an appropriate char. It's common to see the chef Jerry Corso, who owns the restaurant with his wife, Gina Tolentino Corso, hovering near the mouth of the oven and expertly topping pies as they come out. In addition to standing options like margherita and salame piccante, daily topping specials may include seasonal offerings like morels and spring onions. Pizza is the star here, but Mr. Corso spent time running the kitchen at the acclaimed Obelisk in Washington, D.C., so the supporting cast of dishes like grilled octopus with corona bean and 'nduja are equally adept. BRIAN GALLAGHER
3057 Beacon Avenue South, Seattle; 206-395-2069; bardelcorso.com
Bateau
Steakhouse
Bateau is like no other steakhouse in the United States. While it's possible run up an expense-account-worthy tab and get a bracing martini, there are no dark wood appointments, no commodious booths. Instead, the chef Renee Erickson has taken the Pacific Northwest sensibilities of her Sea Creatures restaurant group and channeled them through this carnivorous counterpoint. There is a big chalkboard listing the day's available steaks -- when they run out of a cut, it's erased -- and less popular but no less delicious choices like the culotte and rump cap are fixtures. That's because the restaurant uses as much of the animal as possible, and a cow carries only so many rib-eyes. In that same spirit, sides like smoked-and-spiced shank jerky and beef liver mousse optimize off-cuts and other bovine ingredients. BRIAN GALLAGHER
1040 East Union Street, Seattle; 206-900-8699; restaurantbateau.com
Blotto
Pizza
Tucked into the ground floor of a Capitol Hill house, the tiny Blotto makes pizza with mighty flavor. The style stays deliberately unspecified, but the 16-inch pies hew to a New York thinness of crust, crispy-bottomed with perfect body. The tomato sauce achieves a particularly umami-ed brightness, and a heavy hand with pecorino enhances overall savoriness. Plain cheese gets alchemical, as aged mozzarella and raw-milk Cloud Cap cheese from Cascadia Creamery come together, while Ezzo pepperoni is spiked with local Mama Lil's citrusy, spicy peppers. Seasonal ingredients -- winter kale, springtime peas -- also make appearances throughout the year, with toppings changing every three weeks to keep things interesting. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
1830 12th Avenue, Seattle; 206-403-1809; blottoseattle.com
Canlis
Fine Dining, Tasting Menu
One of America's great restaurants, Canlis has managed to both change with the culinary times and keep what has made it beloved for 73 years -- the striking midcentury dining room overlooking Lake Union, and the famously attentive service. Aisha Ibrahim, the current executive chef, came with a résumé stacked with global standouts like Manresa in California and Azurmendi in Spain. Her menu is focused and luxurious. Gorgeous presentations of dishes like halibut with geoduck and a sauce of kasu butter and peas are matched by the depth and range of flavors on the plate. The lacquered and roasted mushroom preparation will have you wondering why anyone bothers to serve them any other way. The magisterial wine list, overseen by Linda Milagros Violago, runs to 2,600 selections. BRIAN GALLAGHER
2576 Aurora Avenue North, Seattle; 206-283-3313; canlis.com
The Chicken Supply
Fried Chicken, Filipino
This diminutive spot supplies its namesake bird over-the-counter, fried in a slightly puffy, prodigiously crackly crust. Thighs, drumsticks and wings are sold by the piece, but the Stick is the thing. Eight inches of sizable breast-meat hunks, marinated for 12 hours for juiciness, the Stick offers more surface area, which means more golden-brown crispiness. It must be eaten as soon as it's no longer mouth-searingly hot, whether at the Chicken Supply's handful of tables, in the car or walking around the surrounding Phinney Ridge neighborhood. Part of the coating's magic is a mix of four starches -- all of which are gluten-free, as is the entirety of the chef and co-owner Paolo Campbell's menu of Filipino-leaning sides. Don't miss the tricolor pancit, or the single dessert, a fantastic butter mochi. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
7410 Greenwood Avenue North, Seattle; 206-257-4460; thechickensupply.com
Communion
Modern Soul Food
The vibes at Communion are warm and welcoming, and it's not unusual to strike up a conversation with the table next to yours while snacking on some grilled okra, or to be invited to an art opening by a stranger at the bar. The menu changes seasonally, but a dish like the neck-bone stew will, at least for a few minutes, make chatting impossible. It's so delicious, it requires all of your attention -- the crisp-edged strands of smoky meat, the big, tender lima beans and the deeply flavored broth. But every dish has a certain pull, from the catfish and grits to the local clams in coconut milk. Kristi Brown, who ran a catering company before opening her own restaurant, doesn't miss. TEJAL RAO
2350 East Union Street, Seattle; 206-391-8140; communionseattle.com
Itsumono
Izakaya, Gastro Pub
This International District spot describes itself as "mukokuseki," a Japanese term that roughly translates to "stateless," but more specifically means not having the distinctive features of any particular ethnicity. Which tracks. The menu is constantly changing, but don't be surprised to see dishes like the Loco Moco Scotch Egg, a formidable version of that classic English pub snack that channels Hawaii, complete with a side of mac salad, by way of Hackney. Or the Piggy Parm Katsu Sando, which tops a breaded fried pork loin with spaghetti marinara, enrobes them both in mozzarella cheese and sandwiches the lot between pieces of shokupan garlic bread. It's all hearty enough to clad your stomach for an evening spent with the extensive selection of shochu highballs on the cocktail list. BRIAN GALLAGHER
610 South Jackson Street, Seattle; 206-682-1828; itsumonoseattle.wixsite.com
Joule
Asian
The chef Rachel Yang is one of Seattle's greats, and her flagship, Joule, shines as bright as ever, with an expansive, energetic dining room that still rings contemporary-chic. Ms. Yang and her husband, Seif Chirchi (they fell in love in the kitchen of Alain Ducasse at the Essex House in Manhattan), marry all manner of Asian flavors with continental technique. Add prime Pacific Northwest products, and the results -- Chinese-style scallion pancake bedecked with smoked salmon roe and crème fraîche, a paella-adjacent geoduck black rice, grass-fed Washington rib-eye with lemongrass chimichurri -- are by turns electric and comforting. For dessert, consider Ms. Yang's latest venture, Paper Cake Shop, a few blocks away. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
3506 Stone Way North, Seattle; 206-632-5685; relayrestaurantgroup.com/restaurants/joule
Le Pichet
French
A little tranche of Montparnasse just blocks from Pike Place Market, Le Pichet changed hands in 2022. Loyalists fretted that the pitch-perfect menu of French bistro classics -- oeufs mayonnaise, steak frites, haricots verts -- would be fancied up, or even changed in any way. But all was left as is, and the salubrious room is still a great place to stop in at almost any hour (lest we forget that the all-day cafe is not a Millennial innovation). Linger a while over a bottle of reasonably priced French wine and a charcuterie plate, and you may find yourself, without much convincing, eventually staying for a full meal, and a full evening. BRIAN GALLAGHER
1933 First Avenue, Seattle; 206-256-1499; lepichetseattle.com
Lil Red's Takeout and Catering
Barbecue, Jamaican
Erasto Jackson, better known as Red, started out working in the butcher shop that formerly occupied the low-slung building on Rainier Avenue now housing his to-go spot. The combination of learning about meat from that perspective, gathering ecumenically from various regional barbecue styles and trusting his instincts, has very much worked out: His wide-ranging menu earned him a spot on the scholar Adrian Miller's list of the top 20 Black-owned barbecue places in the United States. With his beautiful brisket, crispy-edged burnt ends, pull-apart pork ribs and more, you're encouraged to douse upon delivery with either tomato-based house barbecue sauce or a jerk concoction that blooms from complex to hot. Mr. Jackson's wife, Lelieth Jackson, is Jamaican, and the embrace of that country's cuisine happily extends to her traditional rum cake, one of Seattle's best desserts. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
4225 Rainier Avenue South, Seattle; 206-760-2931; lilredtakeout.com
Local Tide
Seafood
In a town so identified with seafood, it's a bit surprising that one of the best practitioners would be an informal, order-at-the-counter storefront spot. But Local Tide is that. The folks at the fryers here really know how to make hot-oil magic, whether it's for a battered Dover sole fillet, Saltine-crusted local oysters or the delightful take on shrimp toast. The non-fried lineup is equally well done. The crab roll, made with hand-cracked Dungeness and served on a griddled split-top roll, is buttery, sweet and just the right amount of creamy. Insider tip: If Local Tide is full, you can take your food next door and eat at the Aslan Brewing tasting room, if you order a beer. BRIAN GALLAGHER
401 North 36th Street, Unit 103, Seattle; 206-420-4685; localtide.com
Ltd Edition Sushi
Omakase
With high-end omakase restaurants all over the world flying in fish from Tokyo's Tsukiji market, it's now just as easy to enjoy world-class sushi in Brussels as in Shibuya. But at Ltd Edition, in a town of piscatorial plenty, none of the fish is frozen and much of it is local. The chef Keiji Tsukasaki came to the sushi craft somewhat later in life, after more than a decade in the nightlife world, and he presides over the eight-seat counter with an impresario's charisma. While the traditional preparations are superb -- including achingly good Dungeness crab and tender firefly squid -- Mr. Tsukasaki is also expanding the Edomae sushi vocabulary with dishes like lean tuna belly with housemade soy milk and shio koji. BRIAN GALLAGHER
1641 Nagle Place, Suite 006, Seattle; no phone; ltdeditionsushi.com
Musang
Filipino
The chef Melissa Miranda began Musang as a series of pop-ups, and the let's-get-together-for-dinner feel of the permanent dining room is driven, well, home, by its location in a spacious Craftsman house. Ms. Miranda described the menu as "versions of childhood dishes cooked the way we want to eat them now." For instance, Musang's version of binagoongang, traditionally a braised stew dish, comes as a neat little row of fried pork-belly dominoes drizzled with an unctuous vinegary-sweet sauce. And the short-rib kare kare is a real stunner. Braised overnight and then grilled, it is served bone-in, but doesn't remain that way for long. Yielding easily to a fork, the meat is best after a trip through the rich, funky sauce made with shrimp paste and Jif peanut butter. It's big, but the leftovers are killer. BRIAN GALLAGHER
2524 Beacon Avenue South, Seattle; 206-708-6871; musangseattle.com
Off Alley
Continental, Small Plates
The room is tiny -- just 6 feet 4 inches wide, with 12 seats -- but the husband-and-wife team Evan Leichtling and Meghna Prakash maximize every square inch. Ms. Prakash runs the front of the house and assembles the distinctive wine list. Mr. Leichtling -- who has cooked at the three-Michelin-starred Akelarre in San Sebastián, Spain -- holds sway in the diminutive kitchen. Their combined sensibility lends dinners the raucous feel of a Lyonnaise bouchon, with an urban edge. The dishes are nose-to-tail accented with Pacific Northwest ingredients -- braised tripe with morels and ñora peppers; gooseneck barnacles with charred scallion aioli; fried pig head with preserved cherries and Walla Walla onions. And they will tantalizingly disappear from the chalkboard menu as the night goes on. BRIAN GALLAGHER
4903½ Rainier Ave South, Seattle; 206-488-6170; offalleyseattle.com
Paju
Korean
Paju's small, spare storefront is understated, but the chef Bill Jeong's résumé lists Saison in San Francisco and Jungsik in New York, and his contemporary Korean menu represents some serious excellence. Many dishes possess an elegance and deliciousness that would be at home on the highest-end tables in town -- like raw yellowtail curled into a rosette with paper-thin Granny Smith apple, lemon verbena, finger lime, serrano and horseradish, set in a naengmyeon broth pool. Meanwhile, comfort-food favorites get uncommon nuance and savor -- like Paju fried rice, subtly oceanic with squid ink, smoky with bacon crumble, spiced with kimchi, enriched with a quail egg, and dusted with seaweed. With 10 dishes priced from $ 18 to $ 28, it's best to bring a few friends and order everything. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
11 Mercer Street, Seattle; 206-829-8215; pajurestaurant.com
Pancita
Mexican
The chef Janet Becerra's Pancita started as a pop-up at the restaurant incubator Pair to instant acclaim, with fans rejoicing when in August the residency became a permanent one in a charming storefront. Ms. Becerra, who interned at Pujol in Mexico City, includes multiple menu entries for "Today's masa," nixtamalized in-house. Perfectly greasy, exceptionally crispy and light tostadas might be topped with albacore, avocado, frizzled leeks and morita-chile Kewpie mayonnaise. The tacos, made with tender, freshly pressed tortillas, could be filled with dripplingly rich suadero and complemented by tomatillo and bell-pepper salsas. A serrano Caesar possesses a polarizing heat, while the Oaxacan mole negro has powerful depth. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
5501 30th Avenue Northeast, Seattle; 206-526-7655; pairseattle.com
Saint Bread
Bakery, Breakfast
On a sunny Sunday morning, there are few places in Seattle finer to get breakfast than this bakery tucked by the shores of Portage Bay. It's hard not to order half a dozen items from the pastry menu, and park yourself at one of the outside tables for a while. The cardamom croissant is a laminated, convoluted delight, like a not-too-sweet kouign-amann. The school bun, an enriched bread filled with vanilla cream and strawberry jam, is something of a signature dish. And no self-respecting breakfast joint omits an egg-and-cheese sandwich. This one comes on either Hawaiian bread or melonpan, a Japanese sweetbread domed with a thin cookie-like crust. Both bring a nice sweet-savory balance, especially if you've opted to add the Thai-style turkey sausage. BRIAN GALLAGHER
1421 Northeast Boat Street, Seattle; 206-566-5195; saintbread.com
Stateside
Vietnamese French
Call the menu here Vietnamese French and beyond. Beloved dishes from the chef Eric Johnson include crispy-fried duck rolls wrapped in fresh herbs and rice paper, coconut-milk-and-yogurt grilled-goat curry and braised-then-deep-fried chile-cumin pork ribs. Flavors are matched with finesse, as befits Mr. Johnson's past work with Daniel Boulud in New York and Jean-Georges Vongerichten in New York, Paris and Shanghai. The room, with palm-patterned wallpaper and white beams, suggests tropical locales in a way that's particularly welcome when it's dark long before dinnertime. Cocktails also do their part, with tastes of pineapple, lemongrass, galangal and lime leaf. Almost a decade in, Stateside is still a Seattle go-to. And when it comes to darkness and drinks, don't miss the adjacent sibling bar, the tiny, romantic Foreign National. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
300 East Pike Street, Seattle; 206-557-7273; statesideseattle.com
Taurus Ox
Lao
In a world that may have passed peak burger some time ago, it's not often that a compelling new example of the form emerges. But the Taurus Ox Lao burger manages to be just that. In a double smashed burger, the patties are made from a blend of top sirloin and pork belly. A pungent note comes from aged provolone, while jaew tomato and jaew bong -- Lao condiments made with chile, lemongrass, garlic and galangal, bring heat and an herbal tang. Beyond the burger (which is also available at the smaller sibling restaurant, Ox Burger), the Lao sausage, made with lime leaf, chile and garlic, and the Lao beef jerky, tri-tip marinated in tamari with ginger and lemongrass, strike a similarly bewitching balance. BRIAN GALLAGHER
903 19th Avenue East, Seattle; 206-972-0075; taurusox.square.site
Terra Plata
Global, Pacific Northwest
Housed in a handsome, window-lined triangular space on Capitol Hill, Terra Plata is the chef Tamara Murphy's tribute to the best local, seasonal ingredients in the Pacific Northwest. Ms. Murphy was an early proponent of that once-novel concept in Seattle cuisine, and her steadfast devotion to it -- along with consistently great results on the plate -- have made Terra Plata a longtime standout. Her menu of "Land," "Earth" and "Sea" comprises world-ranging flavors: Sea might mean steamed mussels in red curry with sweet peppers, lime and cilantro; Earth could include carrots with honey-lemon tahini, golden-raisin agrodolce, almonds and feta. Roast pig is a constant in the Land category, gloriously stewy with Manila clams and chorizo in a heady broth flavored by smoked paprika and sofrito. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
1501 Melrose Avenue, Seattle; 206-325-1501; terraplata.com
Un Bien
Caribbean
Seattle's most famous sandwich has a past rife with drama, including a lawsuit involving the ownership of the marinade recipe. Regardless of previous legal entanglements, the Caribbean Roast here is magnificent. The stage: a long, sturdy-but-soft roll from the esteemed Macrina Bakery. Supporting players: garlic aioli for creaminess, pickled jalapeños for spark, ribs of romaine for fresh crunch, cilantro lending a bright note, big pieces of caramelized roasted onion all slippery-sweet. The star: pork shoulder slow-roasted into lush meaty hunks, richly savory, whispering of citrus, with warm spices and more garlic coming through. In a city not known for the sandwich arts, Un Bien provides a tremendous public service. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
7302.5 15th Avenue Northwest, Seattle, 206-588-2040 and 6226 Seaview Avenue Northwest, Seattle, 206-420-7545; unbienseattle.com
The Walrus and the Carpenter
Pacific Northwest, Seafood
The flagship of the chef Renee Erickson's restaurant armada, the Walrus and the Carpenter remains unmatched for upscale-oyster-bar goodness in Seattle, with a line of supplicants often stretching out into the parking lot before opening to prove it. (No reservations are taken.) The airy, bustling space evokes the coast of Brittany, and the oysters are only the Pacific Northwest's best -- that is, the best anywhere (with the local bivalve star Hama Hama Oyster Company always well represented). Everything else -- like local Sea Wolf bread and ethereally whipped butter, elegant crudos and chicken liver mousse -- is exactly right. Given all that and a largely French wine list, time spent here is worth the wait. BETHANY JEAN CLEMENT
4743 Ballard Avenue Northwest, Seattle; 206-395-9227; thewalrusbar.com
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph Ba Bar (PHOTOGRAPH BY BA BAR); Artus (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTUSI SEATTLE); Bar del Corso (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRANT HINDSLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Blotto (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYLE JOHNSON); Aaron Verzosa and Amber Manuguid, owners of Archipelago (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHONA KASINGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Communion's owner and chef, Kristi Brown (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHONA KASINGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Bateau (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYLE JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6); The Walrus and the Carpenter (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY PRICE); Itsumono (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRANT HINDSLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Saint Bread (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABBY PARK); Lil Red's Takeout and Catering (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIL RED'S TAKEOUT AND CATERING); Local Tide (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN TO) (D7) This article appeared in print on page D6, D7.

Subject: Chefs; Restaurants

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: United States--US; Pacific Northwest

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/article/best-seattle-restaurants.html

Title: In Seattle, Dishes From Land and Sea:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 11, 2023

column: Re To Eat

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2875247164

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seattle-dishes-land-sea/docview/2875247164/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2873140232/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: MEDIA
Fortune's Chief Executive Will Step Down in 2024
Alan Murray, the chief executive of Fortune, announced on Wednesday that he would step down next year. In a note to staff members, Mr. Murray said he had agreed with Fortune's owner and board that he would help the company with a transition to new leadership and then leave his role at the end of April. He said that during his tenure, Fortune had been established as an independent company, expanded its audience and revenue, and "produced three straight years of profits." Mr. Murray, 68, joined Fortune as the top editor in 2014. Before he joined Fortune, he was the president of the Pew Research Foundation and worked at The Wall Street Journal for nearly 20 years. He said in his note on Wednesday that he had no plans to retire after he stepped down and that Mr. Jiaravanon had asked him to consider staying on in a different role. KATIE ROBERTSON
AUTOMOBILES
Hyundai and Kia to Use Tesla's Charging System
Hyundai and Kia say that they are adopting North American Charging Standard ports for their electric vehicles in the U.S. and Canada, which will give the vehicles access to thousands of Tesla Superchargers across the two countries and Mexico. Tesla's Superchargers are coveted by other automakers because it has more direct current fast-charging plugs in the U.S. than any other network, and its stations are in prime locations along freeway travel corridors. Hyundai Motor North America said Thursday that new Hyundai electric vehicles in the U.S. will come with the N.A.C.S. port starting in 2024's fourth quarter. It will begin in Canada in the first half of 2025. Hyundai's luxury brand, Genesis, will use the ports. Kia said it plans to build the port into new electric vehicles sold in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, also in the fourth quarter of next year. ASSOCIATED PRESS
SPIRITS
Constellation Lifts Targets for Second-Quarter Profit
Constellation Brands raised its annual profit target on Thursday after higher prices and strong demand for its beers and spirits drove sales and profits in the second quarter. Alcohol producers like Constellation and Brown-Forman have benefited from increasing prices, helping offset steeper raw material costs. Constellation also raised the annual sales forecast for its beer business. Its Modelo Especial and Corona brand beers and premium wine labels Meiomi and Kim Crawford retained demand despite a broader consumer slowdown in the U.S. Modelo Especial's dollar share at retail outlets was 8.5 percent, while that of Anheuser-Busch InBev's Bud Light was 8.1 percent this year. Constellation now expects fiscal 2024 comparable earnings per share between $ 12.00 and $ 12.20, as against its previous forecast of profit between $ 11.70
Credit: By Katie Robertson and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Profits; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Profits Breweries

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/04/business/06bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2873140232

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2873140232/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Now Watch Me Park This Boat: [Style Desk]

Author: Nark, Jason; Nishimura, Kent

Publication info: Nark, Jason; Nishimura, Kent. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/now-watch-me-park-this-boat/docview/2865442167/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Chesapeake cowboys rode into St. Michaels, Md., on a steamy Sunday in August, and the air smelled like crab seasoning and diesel exhaust, with a dash of light beer and lime.
A couple thousand spectators had gathered in the Colonial-era tourist town on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, about 80 miles from Washington, D.C., to watch the cowboys square off in a competition unique to the Chesapeake Bay: boat docking.
Fans crammed into hot bleachers overlooking the Miles River. They stood elbow to elbow on a lighthouse deck. A few brave onlookers balanced, precariously, atop dock pilings without spilling their drinks.
A D.J. played a love song to "long-neck, ice- cold beer."
"It's redneck like NASCAR, just on the water," one competitor, Ronnie Reiss, known as "Reissy Cup," said on his boat, the May Worm.
After a prayer for safety and a recording of Chris Stapleton's "Star-Spangled Banner," a woman yelled "start your engines" into a microphone. The crab and oyster boats, known as "deadrises" for their hull design and how they handle the shallow Chesapeake Bay, grumbled to life.
For the next two hours, fans shouted and flinched as boats with names like the Nauti Girl, Outlaw and Hard to Handle reversed out of their slips in a cloud of black smoke.
"The louder you yell, the faster they'll go," said the M.C., Erik Emely, known as "Flea," his Eastern Shore drawl sounding almost Southern.
The annual boat-docking competition at the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum is part of a circuit that travels to about 10 towns in mostly rural shoreline areas in Maryland and Virginia in August and September. The first event was held in 1971, born, as a video from ChesapeakeStory.com surmises, "out of the watermen's innate urge to turn everything into a competition."
Mr. Emely said: "It was about watermen yapping on their radios saying I can tie up faster than you. It was just all bragging rights. The only thing they'd win or bet back then was a tray of soft crabs."
Today, winners can collect thousands in a day or some fuel money to get home. Pride's still on the line, too.
Each pilot competes, alone or with teammates, against a running clock. It's like extreme parking with some rodeo at the end.
After clearing their boat slips, competitors throttle forward and turn hard, kicking up a swell that sometimes wets the fans. (It was 90 degrees by noon in St. Michaels, so no one cared.) The boaters reverse hard, again, backing into another narrow slip by the bleachers at full tilt. The boats, ideally, come to a stop inches from the bulkhead, then the captains scramble to lasso two lines to the pilings.
The competitor who does it fastest, wins.
"I like to think that we're a show, so no one really loses," said John Ashton, captain of Miss Julie.
Sometimes the boats hit pilings. Sometimes they don't stop. The crowd gets a kick out of any mishap.
"We crash all the time," said Jake Jacobs, who captains Outlaw, one of the bay's faster boats. "If it crosses your mind that you might scratch your boat, you done lost. You can't be scared to hurt your boat."
Mr. Jacobs, 37, won two categories in St. Michaels, hoisting trophies and a Corona at day's end. He said he could win about $ 10,000 in a season. His boat and a handful of others have sponsors, many of them landscaping or construction companies.
"Some of us local businesses like to help, whether it's $ 500 to slap a small sticker on the boat or a tank of gas to get them to the competition," said Jason Murphy, whose company name, Peake Contracting, was displayed on Mr. Reiss's May Worm.
The cowboys -- the name competitors coined when unsuccessfully vying for a reality show more than a decade ago -- had been in Cape Charles, Va., a week earlier. A few competitions remain for the season: Solomons Island, on the Western Shore of Maryland, and Tilghman Island, across the bay.
The fan favorite, up and down the bay, is Mr. Reiss's daughter, Peyton Reiss, who is 9 and sports turquoise braces. She competes in kid's categories, if there is one, but more often against adults, pumping her fists at the families in the bleachers.
The writer James A. Michener, who lived in St. Michaels for several years, once described Chesapeake watermen as "quiet heroes, echoes of that day long distant when most Americans made their living close to nature." Some of the competitions are celebrations of that waterman heritage.
Others, like Salisbury's Extreme Boat Docking Competition in Salisbury, Md., which takes place at a bar on the Wicomico River, are more of a party, and last all weekend.
On another hot August Sunday, down the bay from St. Michaels in rural Dorchester County, fans converged on the Slaughter Creek Marina for the Taylors Island Boat Docking Challenge. They parked on the shoulders of a two-lane road with marshes and farmland in every direction. Attendees at the St. Michaels event donated thousands to help a competitor with testicular cancer; at the Taylors Island competition, proceeds from tickets and refreshments -- about $ 22,000 last year -- went to the small town's volunteer fire department.
In quaint St. Michaels, there were some sailboats, pastel polos and boat shoes. The vibe in Taylors Island -- Orioles caps, camouflage Crocs or rubber fishing boots -- was a bit more country.
Organizers ordered 150 cases of beer, but many attendees lined up for an "Orange Crush," a Maryland shore staple made of orange vodka, triple sec, Sprite and -- fans on Taylors Island were adamant about this -- fresh-squeezed orange juice. A bartender at the crush tent there, a native New Yorker who never heard of the drink before moving to the Eastern Shore in 2005, said he'd poured hundreds before noon.
Many attendees compared the competition and atmosphere to NASCAR. Others mentioned tractor pulls and rodeos, all competitions rooted in real-world livelihoods. (Many of NASCAR's early racers were moonshine runners, honing their skills against the police on backwoods roads during Prohibition.)
For now, docking isn't on television, and the unique design of those Chesapeake Bay deadrises -- the official state boat of Virginia -- will likely keep competitions local.
But docking competitions have been discovered by a slice of social media that's seemingly obsessed with all things boating, and some posts get millions of views.
The Chesapeake Bay even has a social media star who has gone worldwide. Luke McFadden, a first-generation waterman from the Western Shore of Maryland, chronicles the working life for his 1.6 million TikTok followers. Mr. McFadden, 27, teaches viewers how to steam crabs in one video, how to handle a crab pinch in another: "Do not yank on it," he instructs.
He was hounded for pictures and handed free beers at the St. Michael's competition.
"People think of boats and they think of a yacht," Mr. McFadden said. "This is like the true grit, what boats were originally intended for."
Many longtime competitors, like Mr. Ashton, 50, still work on the bay. But the number of licensed watermen has dropped over time.
A 2016 study from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond said stricter government regulations and an aging work force play a role in the decline. Seafood industry executives on the bay say they need more migrant workers to process crabs. Watchdogs say those migrants, most of them women from Mexico, are treated poorly.
Mr. Ashton's grandparents cooked and sold crabs on Hoopers Island, but the watermen's life may end with him.
"None of my boys are interested in it," he said.
Mr. Reiss works in marine construction but still oysters in the winter. Peyton, his 9-year-old protégé, wants to be an engineer. Mr. Jacobs worked on a tugboat in Baltimore Harbor after high school but left the water for what he called a steadier life driving a fuel truck. (Some competitions won't let him enter his boat for that reason.) Mr. Jacobs said the costs of being a waterman -- fuel, bait, the whims of the crab market and lack of help -- "never added up."
Some watermen have outfitted their boats for tours instead, or turned them into water taxis. Others have sold them off. In St. Michaels, a woman recognized her mother's name in red letters on the hull of the Kathy Marie, a working boat, and began to cry. The captain of the boat hopped off to hug her.
"That was my daddy's boat," she told him.
Mr. Jacobs said the prize money helps because he spends so much fine-tuning his boat. Trophies are nice, too. But more than that, the competitions help him turn back time, and even if it's just a few summer Sundays, that's worth something he can't count or carry.
"I'll always be a waterman, that won't never change," he said. "I'm a waterman with a cowboy heart."
Photograph Danny Haddaway at the 2023 Salisbury's Extreme Boat Docking event. (ST1); Top and above left, Jake Jacobs, the captain of the boat Outlaw. Above right, the crowd listening to the national anthem at the 2023 Salisbury's Extreme Boat Docking competition. Left, shirts in support of Sydney Hughes, a competitor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENT NISHIMURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST4) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST4.

Subject: Boats; Crustaceans; Beer; Social networks; Cowboys

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Maryland; Chesapeake Bay; United States--US; Virginia

Company / organization: Name: National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing; NAICS: 711320, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/14/style/competitive-boat-docking-md-va.html

Title: Now Watch Me Park This Boat:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865442167

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/now-watch-me-park-this-boat/docview/2865442167/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Calls for Justice After Officer Throws Cooler, Killing Man: [National Desk]

Author: Nolan, Erin; Meko, Hurubie; Schweber, Nate

Publication info: Nolan, Erin; Meko, Hurubie; Schweber, Nate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calls-justice-after-officer-throws-cooler-killing/docview/2857730074/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The state attorney general's office is investigating the death of Eric Duprey, which has been ruled a homicide.
In the Bronx neighborhood where Eric Duprey lived, his fellow dirt bike and motorbike riders said he often rode down the street performing his signature move, with his front tire straight up in the air. But residents also said the area was a place where jobs were hard to come by, drugs were prevalent and encounters with the police could be fraught.
On Wednesday evening, Mr. Duprey, 30, was on a motorbike, fleeing narcotics officers who were attempting to arrest him, the police said, when a sergeant, Erik Duran, threw a cooler at him. Mr. Duprey lost control of the bike, hitting a tree and a car before the bike toppled over and he fell to the ground, a surveillance video reviewed by The New York Times shows. He was pronounced dead at the scene four minutes later.
On Friday, the New York City medical examiner's office ruled Mr. Duprey's death a homicide. The state attorney general's office is investigating the incident.
The episode unfolded over just a few minutes around 5:30 p.m. on Wednesday. In the days since, Mr. Duprey's family has disputed the Police Department's account, and protesters have called for criminal charges against the sergeant who threw the cooler.
According to police officials, undercover narcotics officers were near 192nd Street and Aqueduct Avenue conducting a "buy-and-bust" -- an operation to catch unsuspecting drug dealers in the area. During the operation, the police said, Mr. Duprey sold narcotics to one of the officers, which prompted undercover and plainclothes officers nearby to move in to arrest him.
A man, whom the police did not identify, rolled a motorbike over to Mr. Duprey, who got on and sped down Aqueduct Avenue, the police said.
Moments later, near the corner of 190th Street, the video shows Mr. Duprey driving onto the sidewalk and heading toward a group of people sitting at a table, which matches the police account.
It was then that Sergeant Duran grabbed a plastic cooler from the table and threw it at Mr. Duprey, an action captured by the surveillance camera.
Mr. Duprey's brother, Ryan Rodriguez, said he and Mr. Duprey had been together on Wednesday, lingering on the sidewalk on the east side of Aqueduct Avenue.
"We were just here chilling and smoking, the same thing we do every day," said Mr. Rodriguez, 21. Then, he said, a group of police officers approached Mr. Duprey while he was seated on a friend's borrowed motorbike with the engine off.
Mr. Duprey started the bike and raced north in an attempt to outrun the police, Mr. Rodriguez said, adding that the reason that his brother had fled was that the bike was not registered.
"He was scared they would take his bike away," Mr. Rodriguez said.
But Mr. Duprey found police officers at the next intersection, Mr. Rodriguez said. He whirled the bike around and drove south, on the sidewalk.
Sergeant Duran did not shout at Mr. Duprey to stop, Mr. Rodriguez said, adding, "He picked up the cooler and just smashed it on his face."
When Mr. Duprey fell to the ground with the motorbike on top of him, Mr. Rodriguez said, Sergeant Duran ran over and lifted the bike from his body before performing CPR. But Mr. Duprey was clearly dead.
"It just broke my heart," Mr. Rodriguez said.
Sergeant Duran was suspended without pay on Thursday, police officials said in a statement posted to social media. The Police Department said its force investigation division would help with the attorney general's investigation.
"The N.Y.P.D. is committed to ensuring that there will be a full, thorough, transparent investigation of this incident to determine the facts and to take the appropriate steps forward," the department said in a statement.
On Saturday, Jonathan Roberts, a lawyer representing Mr. Duprey's family, said in a statement that Mr. Duprey had been "a loving partner, father and son who provided financial and emotional support to his family."
He added that "nothing can mitigate this family's pain, but the individual who committed this heinous act must be held accountable."
Sergeant Duran's lawyer, Andrew C. Quinn, said there was more to the situation than the video clip showed.
"What is indisputably clear is that the deceased, who was intent on evading arrest for selling drugs to an undercover officer, was speeding on a motorbike in an incredibly dangerous manner down a crowded sidewalk, jeopardizing the life and safety of everyone there," Mr. Quinn said in a statement on Friday. "Once a full and complete investigation is conducted, we are fully confident that Sergeant Duran will be exonerated of any misconduct or wrongdoing."
The swift suspension of Sergeant Duran, 35, a 13-year police veteran, provoked pushback within the department. One high-ranking officer said Sergeant Duran "had attempted to make a lawful arrest" and that using a cooler to stop Mr. Duprey was equivalent to "closing the door" to prevent someone from leaving.
The state attorney general's office did not immediately respond to questions on Saturday about the possibility of criminal charges against Sergeant Duran.
It was unclear whether the sergeant's actions violated rules laid out in the Police Department's patrol guide. A department spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Saturday.
Because police officers face many unforeseeable circumstances in the field, the department does not always have specific guidance on what officers should and should not do in response to volatile situations or when they perceive a threat to themselves or others, said Maria Haberfeld, the chair of the Department of Law, Police Science and Criminal Justice Administration at John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
"This is not something that you're going to see in the patrol guide, that you can pick up a cooler and throw it," she said.
On Saturday afternoon, dozens of people joined activists for a small rally at the site of Mr. Duprey's death. Many arrived on motorbikes, which they parked in a long row down the sidewalk.
Chivona Newsome, a founder of Black Lives Matter of Greater New York, called on the state attorney general to charge Sergeant Duran with murder.
"He needs to be charged the same way as if I threw a cooler at someone," she said.
A day earlier, Mr. Rodriguez held solemn court at a memorial for Mr. Duprey, which included bouquets of flowers, bottles of Corona beer and tequila, many dozens of colorful votive candles, and blown-up color photos of Mr. Duprey with his wife and two young children.
"I want justice for my brother," Mr. Rodriguez said. "I want that officer locked in jail."
Chelsia Rose Marcius contributed reporting.
Chelsia Rose Marcius contributed reporting.
Photograph "He was my everything," Ryan Rodriguez said of his brother, Eric Duprey, who died Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE KEITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Police departments; Attorneys general; Criminal investigations; Surveillance; Narcotics

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/26/nyregion/nypd-sergeant-cooler-motorbike-death.html

Title: Calls for Justice After Officer Throws Cooler, Killing Man:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 28, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857730074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calls-justice-after-officer-throws-cooler-killing/docview/2857730074/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After NYPD Sergeant Hits Man With Cooler, Mourners Call for Charges

Author: Nolan, Erin; Meko, Hurubie; Schweber, Nate

Publication info: Nolan, Erin; Meko, Hurubie; Schweber, Nate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-nypd-sergeant-hits-man-with-cooler-mourners/docview/2857687882/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — In the Bronx neighborhood where Eric Duprey lived, his fellow dirt bike and motorbike riders said he often rode down the street performing his signature move, with his front tire straight up in the air. But residents also said the area was a place where jobs were hard to come by, drugs were prevalent and encounters with police could be fraught.
On Wednesday evening, Duprey, 30, was on a motorbike, fleeing narcotics officers who were attempting to arrest him, police said, when a sergeant, Erik Duran, threw a cooler at him. Duprey lost control of the bike, hitting a tree and a car before the bike toppled over and he fell to the ground, a surveillance video reviewed by The New York Times shows. He was pronounced dead at the scene four minutes later.
On Friday, the New York City medical examiner’s office ruled Duprey’s death a homicide. The state attorney general’s office is investigating the incident.
The episode unfolded over just a few minutes about 5:30 p.m. Wednesday. In the days since, Duprey’s family has disputed the Police Department’s account, and protesters have called for criminal charges against the sergeant who threw the cooler.
According to police officials, undercover narcotics officers were near 192nd Street and Aqueduct Avenue conducting a “buy-and-bust” — an operation to catch unsuspecting drug dealers in the area. During the operation, police said, Duprey sold narcotics to one of the officers, which prompted undercover and plainclothes officers nearby to move in to arrest him.
A man, whom police did not identify, rolled a motorbike over to Duprey, who got on and sped down Aqueduct Avenue, police said.
Moments later, near the corner of 190th Street, the video shows Duprey driving onto the sidewalk and heading toward a group of people sitting at a table, which matches the police account.
It was then that Duran grabbed a plastic cooler from the table and threw it at Duprey, an action captured by the surveillance camera.
Duprey’s brother, Ryan Rodriguez, said he and Duprey had been together Wednesday, lingering on the sidewalk on the east side of Aqueduct Avenue.
“We were just here chilling and smoking, the same thing we do every day,” said Rodriguez, 21. Then, he said, a group of police officers approached Duprey while he was seated on a friend’s borrowed motorbike with the engine off.
Duprey started the bike and raced north in an attempt to outrun police, Rodriguez said, adding that the reason that his brother had fled was that the bike was not registered.
“He was scared they would take his bike away,” Rodriguez said.
But Duprey found police officers at the next intersection, Rodriguez said. He whirled the bike around and drove south, on the sidewalk.
Duran did not shout at Duprey to stop, Rodriguez said, adding, “He picked up the cooler and just smashed it on his face.”
When Duprey fell to the ground with the motorbike on top of him, Rodriguez said, Duran ran over and lifted the bike from his body before performing CPR. But Duprey was clearly dead.
“It just broke my heart,” Rodriguez said.
Duran was suspended without pay Thursday, police officials said in a statement posted to social media. The Police Department said its force investigation division would help with the attorney general’s investigation.
“The NYPD is committed to ensuring that there will be a full, thorough, transparent investigation of this incident to determine the facts and to take the appropriate steps forward,” the department said in a statement.
On Saturday, Jonathan Roberts, a lawyer representing Duprey’s family, said in a statement that Duprey had been “a loving partner, father and son who provided financial and emotional support to his family.”
He added that “nothing can mitigate this family’s pain, but the individual who committed this heinous act must be held accountable.”
Duran’s lawyer, Andrew C. Quinn, said there was more to the situation than the video clip showed.
“What is indisputably clear is that the deceased, who was intent on evading arrest for selling drugs to an undercover officer, was speeding on a motorbike in an incredibly dangerous manner down a crowded sidewalk, jeopardizing the life and safety of everyone there,” Quinn said in a statement Friday. “Once a full and complete investigation is conducted, we are fully confident that Sergeant Duran will be exonerated of any misconduct or wrongdoing.”
The swift suspension of Duran, 35, a 13-year police veteran, provoked pushback within the department. One high-ranking officer said Duran “had attempted to make a lawful arrest” and that using a cooler to stop Duprey was equivalent to “closing the door” to prevent someone from leaving.
The state attorney general’s office did not immediately respond to questions on Saturday about the possibility of criminal charges against Duran.
It was unclear whether the sergeant’s actions violated rules laid out in the Police Department’s patrol guide. A department spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment Saturday.
Because police officers face many unforeseeable circumstances in the field, the department does not always have specific guidance on what officers should and should not do in response to volatile situations or when they perceive a threat to themselves or others, said Maria Haberfeld, the chair of the Department of Law, Police Science and Criminal Justice Administration at John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
“This is not something that you’re going to see in the patrol guide, that you can pick up a cooler and throw it,” she said.
On Saturday afternoon, dozens of people joined activists for a small rally at the site of Duprey’s death. Many arrived on motorbikes, which they parked in a long row down the sidewalk.
Chivona Newsome, a founder of Black Lives Matter of Greater New York, called on the state attorney general to charge Duran with murder.
“He needs to be charged the same way as if I threw a cooler at someone,” she said.
A day earlier, Rodriguez held solemn court at a memorial for Duprey, which included bouquets of flowers, bottles of Corona beer and tequila, many dozens of colorful votive candles, and blown-up color photos of Duprey with his wife and two young children.
“I want justice for my brother,” Rodriguez said. “I want that officer locked in jail.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Police departments; Attorneys general; Criminal investigations; Surveillance; Narcotics

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Police Department-New York City NY; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Assaults; New York City; United States; Office Of The Chief Medical Examiner Of The City Of New York; Fugitives; Attorneys General; College Of Criminal Justice; Criminal Justice; Bronx (Nyc); Schweber, Nate; Sidewalks; Duran, Erik R (New York, Ny, Police Officer); John Jay College Of Criminal Justice; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Funerals And Memorials; New York Times; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Police Department (Nyc); Police; Duprey, Eric (D 2023); Traffic Accidents And Safety; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes And Motorscooters

Title: After NYPD Sergeant Hits Man With Cooler, Mourners Call for Charges

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-27T22:59:07Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857687882

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-nypd-sergeant-hits-man-with-cooler-mourners/docview/2857687882/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

State of Pizza: This Year's Standout Slices: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Richardson, Nikita

Publication info: Richardson, Nikita. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/state-pizza-this-years-standout-slices/docview/2847614698/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Wait-worthy pies, a rooftop with apizza and plenty more excellent options in New York.
Pizza in New York is a lot like certain calculus problems (or that one scene in "Mean Girls"): The limit does not exist. We will never reach peak pizza, barring some pizza-related disaster. Which brings us to this year's State of Pizza, my second annual update on the latest pizza goings-on across this big, beautiful, pepperoni-peppered city.
A New New York Slice
Last year around this time, I was singing the praises of the clam pizza from Andrew Bellucci's Pizzeria in Astoria, Queens. So, I was heartbroken to learn of the sudden death of Mr. Bellucci, the restaurant's co-owner, in May. He had a complicated past, but one thing was never in doubt: He knew how to make pizza, and he knew how to make it exceptionally well.
He was also generous with that knowledge, and showed the ropes to Chris Hansell, the pizzaiolo behind Chrissy's Pizza. If you haven't heard of Chrissy's, prepare to hear about it nonstop once it opens to the public (hopefully) in late August. It started as a passion project in Mr. Hansell's apartment in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and through word of mouth -- and a co-sign from the rapper Action Bronson -- it's become New York City's hardest-to-get pie.
That's not on purpose, by the way: The three-person operation is now based in the shoebox-size space in the East Village that Superiority Burger used to occupy and can produce only about 60 pies a day. I tried one of Chrissy's "test" pies just before pickup last week -- the shop is currently in "beta" and fulfilling long-sold-out preorders. I think I blacked out. This is the pie for anyone who loves an extra crispy, well-done crust, the kind that was perfected in neighborhood pizza parlors, many of which Mr. Hansell frequented with his father, whose picture sits in two places in the restaurant. The tomato sauce is made fresh, never sitting in a fridge for hours on end, with just a smattering of cheese. You won't get those legendary Ninja Turtle cheese pulls, but the pizza won't last long enough for you to care.
And a New New Haven Slice
If Chrissy's is repping the New York pie, then Lala's in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is the Connecticut delegate. This city isn't exactly head over heels for rival pizza styles, so it's particularly brave of Grimm Artisanal Ales to give over its entire rooftop to apizza (the New Haven term for its local style). I've been a fan of Grimm for a long time -- it was going hard on light-bodied sours during the New England I.P.A. arms race -- and the lovely little restaurant its owners have put together is perfect for a group hang or a first date. Go for the tomato pie, a cracker-thin pizza with shaved garlic, or the cozy pie with chunks of potato. And if beer isn't quite your thing, don't fret: Grimm now makes and serves its own wine.
You want New York pizza? All right, it's finally time for me to shout from the rooftops that one of the best and most underrated grandma pies in this city comes from Rocco Pizza, which advertises itself as "the last Italian family-owned pizza joint in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn." For years now, I've been inviting friends over for drinks and Rocco, and there's no greater pleasure than watching the surprise on their faces at just how good the crisp, buttery crust and cheesy interior are. I've held my silence long enough!
A Lightning Round of Impressive Pies and Super Slices
Scarr's Pizza moved to a new, larger location across the street on the Lower East Side, and it's serving slices until 11 p.m. or midnight. The new spot to be seen eating pizza with a Lambrusco spritz in hand is Manero's of Mulberry. The most inventive pizza in the city isn't being made in shops, it's being baked in portable ovens by nomads like Happy Bull Pizza, Traze and Wizard Hat Pizza. Have you been craving bulgolgi or kimchi on your pie? Try Appas Pizza in the East Village, or the new Bushwick location of Nowon. The chef Wylie Dufresne got into the pizza game with Stretch Pizza, but it's his appetizers that really shine, according to Pete Wells. If you're deadly serious about natural wine and margherita pizza, Decades Pizza in Ridgewood, Queens, is the answer. And as the food writer Mahira Rivers reminded us a few months ago on Eater, take good care of your pizza elders. They won't be around forever.
In Other News ...
There's no restaurant review this week, which means you can catch up on Pete Wells's most recent reviews of the Peruvian restaurant Artesano, Potluck Club in Chinatown and Mischa, home of the $ 29 hot dog.
Openings: Spain and Japan meet at the Bazaar by José Andrés at the Ritz-Carlton in NoMad; starting Wednesday, L'abeille à côté will serve French-Japanese in a more casual setting right next to the Michelin-starred L'abeille; and Gulaabo, a new destination for Punjabi cuisine, is now open on West 47th Street.
Record heat has made cooking at certain kinds of restaurants more difficult, forcing owners to purchase new equipment or change their hours of operation, Christina Morales reports.
How has the cooking video evolved? Priya Krishna and Umi Syam put together a visual deep dive into the history of the medium going back to the days of Joyce Chen and James Beard and landing on the distinct styles that have been created on Tiktok.
After a recent crackdown, food vendors at Corona Plaza in Queens and their supporters are looking for a fast track that will allow them to sell their goods legally, Stefanos Chen and Raúl Vilchis report.
Robert Simonson traveled to Binghamton, N.Y., to report on the Spiedie Fest and Balloon Rally Expo, a celebration of the regional sandwich made with grilled, marinated meat.
Email us at wheretoeat@nytimes.com . Newsletters will be archived here . Follow NYT Food on TikTok and NYT Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube and Pinterest .
Photograph Clockwise from top right: the red pie at Lala's Brooklyn Pizza; a slice of the "Hotboi Pizza" from Scarr's Pizza; from left, Christopher Fratesi, Chelsea O'Connor and Chris Hansell outside their shop, Chrissy's Pizza; and a cheese slice from Chrissy's Pizza. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES; RACHEL VANNI) This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Pizza; Restaurants; Cooking

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Wells, Pete

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/08/dining/best-nyc-pizza.html

Title: State of Pizza: This Year's Standout Slices:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 9, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847614698

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/state-pizza-this-years-standout-slices/docview/2847614698/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Combine Beer, Lime and Salt, and Just Be Chill: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Peppler, Rebekah

Publication info: Peppler, Rebekah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combine-beer-lime-salt-just-be-chill/docview/2847614693/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The ice-cold cocktail is delicious in its simplest form -- and it's also endlessly customizable.
A classic Mexican beer-based cocktail, the deeply chilled, lightly effervescent Michelada is easy and refreshing to drink. Its defined form, however, is a bit more complicated, inspiring intense debate as to what is and isn't included in the final glass.
"The definition of a Michelada will change depending on where in Mexico or where in the world you ask," said Sofía Acuña, an owner of Dooriban and Moa in Mexico City.
Recipe: Michelada
For some, a Michelada -- or Chelada, depending on where in Mexico you are, and again, who you ask -- is "just the mix of beer, lime juice and salt," Ms. Acuña said.
The name comes from "mi chela helada," approximately "my cold beer" in English. A light Mexican lager, such as Tecate, Corona, Pacifico, Carta Blanca, Sol or Modelo, is the classic choice for that cold beer, letting the flavors shine.
Beyond that, the drink's final formula is more pliable, generating strong opinions and heated discussion over how, exactly, it is made. The most common additions can include but are not limited to: a dash of Worcestershire sauce (or salsa inglesa), a few -- or many -- drops of hot sauce and Maggi seasoning (which Ms. Acuña would call a Cubana), and splashes of Clamato or tomato juice, or both (some, she notes, would call that an Ojo Rojo).
And modern interpretations expand the choice of condiments to kaleidoscopic.
"Before everyone was aiming for the best classic Michelada, using the same ingredients, just with different amounts," Ms. Acuña said. "Now, people are open to experimenting, but there's always something acidic, something spicy, something salty."
Switch out lime juice for another citrus, such as lemon, or even a tart dry vinegar. The Michelada at Ticuchi in Mexico City, designed by Yana Volfson, a partner, makes use of both fresh yuzu juice and a yuzu kosho made with chile de agua. When making Micheladas at home, Yola Jiménez, the founder of Yola Mezcal, often adds slices of fresh serrano pepper or jalapeño to her drink for spice. (A drizzle of Sriracha or a crack of black pepper work, too.)
For salinity, incorporate a splash of soy sauce, olive juice or pickled jalapeño brine. At Dooriban, Ms. Acuña uses kimchi juice in place of Clamato to make a Kimchelada. A Michelada can also be fortified with a boozy spirit. Scarlett Lindeman, the owner of Ojo Rojo Diner in Mexico City, punches up the base of her chipotle-spiked Ojo Rojo with a shot of mezcal.
As for the rim, lime and salt is classic, and Tajín, a chile-lime salt, is also popular. Ms. Acuña has also seen variations with cilantro or celery salts. (Her Kimchelada has a gochugaru and salt rim.) Sometimes, the rim is dipped not in lime juice but in chamoy, a sour-sweet condiment traditionally made from fermented fruit, sugar, salt and chiles.
At Mari Gold in Mexico City, the chef and co-owner Norma Listman drops a spoonful of a seasonal housemade chamoy in the glass before adding jamaica sal chaat, a blend of hibiscus, black salt and amchur, to the rim.
And no matter where you fall on the Michelada spectrum, make sure the drink is imbibed ice-cold. Start by pouring it directly over ice. If you have the time and space, double down and chill your glasses in the freezer for an hour or two -- mugs, beer glasses or taller, wider glassware work best here -- before making and serving to added frosty effect.
Or skip straight to the good part and make your Michelada right in an ice-cold beer can.
"In the end, for me, a Michelada is a mix of ingredients with a beer that will taste delicious," Ms. Acuña said. "It can be so simple with just lime juice and salt, or a lot more complex if you start adding sauces and spiciness."
Whatever you add -- or don't add -- to your Michelada start with the constants: beer, lime, salt. The end result will define your ideal Michelada.
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARMANDO RAFAEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: CYD RAFTUS MCDOWELL) This article appeared in print on page D8.

Subject: Recipes; Beer; Cooking

Location: Mexico; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/03/dining/michelada-recipe.html

Title: Combine Beer, Lime and Salt, and Just Be Chill:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 9, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847614693

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combine-beer-lime-salt-just-be-chill/docview/2847614693/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2843296443/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Saturday, July 29, 2023.
METROPOLITAN
An article on Page 1 this weekend about repurposed abandoned buildings in the Hudson Valley misidentifies the year that BjornQorn bought the Skate Time roller rink. It was 2022, not 2012.
BUSINESS
An article on Friday about Modelo Especial position as the top-selling beer in America incorrectly described Constellation's relationship to the Mexican beer brands Modelo, Corona and Pacifico. Those brands are all part of Grupo Modelo, which is owned by Anheuser-Busch InBev. Constellation owns the U.S. rights to those brands; it does not own the brands.
An article on Thursday about NASA's choice of Lockheed Martin to build a nuclear-powered rocket, using information from a news conference, misstated the timing of a possible flight test of a nuclear-thermal engine. The launch is scheduled for late 2026 or early 2027, not late 2025 or early 2026.
ARTS & LEISURE
An article on Page 15 about the photographer Felipe Romero Beltrán includes an incorrect byline. It was written by Jennifer Harlan.
OBITUARIES
An obituary on July 16 about the civil liberties lawyer Melvin Wulf referred incorrectly to Aryeh Neier's tenure as executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union. He held that position from 1970 until 1978; he was not executive director at the time of voter registration efforts in the South in the summer of 1964.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A13.

Title: Corrections:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 29, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retraction

ProQuest document ID: 2843296443

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2843296443/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Modelo Dethroned Bud Light: [Correction]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-modelo-dethroned-bud-light/docview/2842746911/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A decade before Bud Light faced a conservative-led boycott over a transgender influencer, Modelo Especial was on track to take the No. 1 spot.
More beers in America are being paired with lime than ever before.
The story of how Modelo Especial, a Mexican lager, surpassed Bud Light as the top-selling beer in America predates the conservative backlash that Bud Light faced in April over a collaboration with a transgender influencer. The country's steadily growing Hispanic population is only part of the story, too.
Rather, the factors that, for the better part of a decade, put Modelo on its triumphant track include an increasing preference among American consumers for imported, more expensive beer; a decade-old antitrust deal; and effective marketing campaigns aimed at attracting young, non-Hispanic consumers to the Mexican beer.
"Most people in the beer industry have assumed Modelo was going to overtake Bud Light at some point," said Bart Watson, chief economist for the Brewers Association, a trade group representing over 6,000 American breweries. "It was a question of when, not if."
The switch occurred at the start of June, after Bud Light had held the No. 1 spot for about 20 years. In the four-week period that ended July 8, Modelo made up 8.7 percent of retail beer sales in the United States, compared with Bud Light's 6.8 percent, according to Nielsen IQ data analyzed by the consulting firm Bump Williams.
Bud Light's ouster followed a conservative-led boycott that was set off when Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender influencer, posted a video on Instagram on April 1 promoting a Bud Light contest. The company has since dismissed two marketing executives and has reported plunging sales.
In an earnings call last month, Bill Newlands, the chief executive of Constellation Brands, which owns the rights to Modelo in the United States, told investors that the beer's rise to the top had happened "sooner than we anticipated." Constellation's beer business reported an 11 percent sales increase and a 7.5 percent increase in shipments for the quarter that ended May 31.
Constellation, which also owns the U.S. rights to the Mexican beers Corona and Pacifico, is perhaps the biggest winner in the American beer market, as consumer tastes in alcohol have shifted over the past decade.
Americans are drinking less beer than they used to, and the beer that they've grown to prefer is more expensive than Bud Light, Mr. Watson noted. Craft beers and imports, like Modelo, as well as hard seltzers and canned cocktails, have benefited from that shift at the expense of domestic brands, he added.
Younger drinkers tend to want something new or different, and usually more expensive, than the previous generation, said Nadine Sarwat, an alcoholic-beverage analyst at Bernstein Autonomous, a market research company. That trend has been going on for generations: When lighter beers like Bud Light began having their moment in the 1980s and 1990s, they, too, were more expensive than competitors.
"You don't like to drink what your parents drink," Ms. Sarwat said.
A demographic shift has also contributed to Modelo's success. Hispanic people made up 19 percent of the U.S. population in 2021, up from 13 percent in 2000, according to the Census Bureau.
Along with that, Mexican products have gained "cultural appeal" among non-Hispanic consumers, Ms. Sarwat said. And it's not just beer: The volume of tequila and mezcal -- Mexican liquors -- sold in the United States increased 273 percent from 2003 to 2022, according to the Distilled Spirits Council.
Mexico exports more beer to the United States than any other country by far. In 2022, it shipped in seven times the volume of the second-highest source of U.S. beer imports, the Netherlands.
From 2013 to 2022, the amount of Mexican beer imports doubled, according to data from the Beer Institute. Mexico carried the overall growth in U.S. beer imports during that time: Imports from everywhere else dropped more than 25 percent.
The biggest growth in Mexican beer sales over the past year has been in states closer to the Canadian border, which tend to have lower Hispanic populations, while growth in states closer to Mexico has lagged, according to one Nielsen IQ analysis of on-premise sales.
Modelo, however, has enjoyed greater success than other Mexican beers that sell in the United States, including Tecate and Dos Equis.
"That is proof that just having a Mexican beer brand isn't enough," Ms. Sarwat said.
Anheuser-Busch InBev, the maker of Bud Light, began to see the writing on the wall a decade ago.
In 2012, the company sought to acquire Grupo Modelo, which brews Modelo and Corona. The Department of Justice under President Barack Obama sued to block that deal in early 2013, arguing that keeping Modelo beers independent from Anheuser-Busch and MillerCoors, the two major American beer companies, was critical to maintaining a fair market.
Bill Baer, who led the agency's antitrust division at the time, said Anheuser-Busch had sought the deal because it had been worried about Modelo's rise. The parties reached a settlement in 2013, allowing the acquisition to go through as long as another company, which turned out to be Constellation, controlled Grupo Modelo's U.S. operations.
"The result in the market was Constellation had every incentive as an independent owner to really promote the hell out of Corona and the other Modelo brands," said Mr. Baer, now a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution. "And that's exactly what has happened."
Asked for comment, an Anheuser-Busch spokesperson pointed to the fact that Bud Light sold more beer by volume in the United States than Modelo, which owes its sales lead in part to its higher price point.
In the decade since Constellation has owned the U.S. rights to Modelo, it has worked meticulously to refine the beer's identity.
Promoting Modelo has been a balancing act of maintaining its authenticity to its Hispanic base while inviting new consumers, said Jim Sabia, head of Constellation's beer division. In 2016, Modelo rolled out its first English-language advertising push, with a "fighting spirit" marketing campaign.
Since then, Constellation has sought to position Modelo as a game-day beer. In 2017, it became the sponsor of the Ultimate Fighting Championship, a deal that it has renewed and that is in the "low eight figures" annually, according to Sports Business Journal. That identity is distinct from Modelo's sister brand, Corona, which Constellation has promoted as a beer to sip on the beach with friends.
"It takes a lot of time to truly find the essence of these brands," Mr. Sabia said, "and when we finally get it, we stick with it."
Photograph Modelo, a Mexican lager, had an 11 percent increase in sales last quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELSEY MCCLELLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); "It was a question of when, not if," Modelo would surpass Bud Light in the United States, said Bart Watson, chief economist for the Brewers Association. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Antitrust; Marketing; Hispanic people; Consumers; Beer; Transgender persons; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Marketing Consumers Breweries

Location: Mexico; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110; Name: Brewers Association; NAICS: 813910; Name: Grupo Modelo SA de CV; NAICS: 312120

Title: How Modelo Dethroned Bud Light:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 28, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842746911

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-modelo-dethroned-bud-light/docview/2842746911/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2840134369/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Friday, July 21, 2023.
INTERNATIONAL
An article on Wednesday about the impact that general election outcomes could have on efforts to exhume mass graves in Spain misstated the profession of a woman executed and buried in the mass graves in Viznar, Spain. She was a tailor, not a barmaid.
ARTS
A picture caption with an article on Tuesday about watching "Oppenheimer" in IMAX 70-millimeter format misidentified the type of projector shown in the background. It was a film projector, not a digital projector.
A Critic's Notebook article on Thursday about Josh Kline's "Another America Is Possible" on view at the Whitney Museum of American Art misstated the beer used in a video installation by Josh Kline. It is Corona, not Budweiser.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A16.

Title: Corrections:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retraction

ProQuest document ID: 2840134369

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2840134369/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dressed to Kill, and Having a Weekend-Long Ball: [Style Desk]

Author: Wong, Wilson

Publication info: Wong, Wilson. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressed-kill-having-weekend-long-ball/docview/2825675310/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Neither a drop of rain nor a cloud of wildfire smoke could keep more than 100,000 fans from flocking to the Governors Ball Music Festival over the weekend at Flushing Meadows Corona Park in Queens.
Waves of revelers, festooned in rose-colored tutus, elaborately designed fishnets and oversize cowboy hats, filed into the event held this past Friday, Saturday and Sunday. They thrashed to Odesza and Diplo; bounced to Lizzo and Kendrick Lamar; and swayed to Haim and Omar Apollo across three different stages in the green fields encircling the iconic Unisphere, the 140-foot-tall ball fit for ... a ball.
On the first day of the festival -- enveloped by a gray haze, either from the Canadian wildfire smoke, the pyrotechnics, the cigarettes or some combination of all three -- music lovers, in between vape hits and beer sips, discussed their outfit inspirations and favorite performances.
Juliet Kingsley, 22
Lives in: New York City
How long have you lived in the city? I've only lived here for eight months. I'm originally from Charlottesville, Va.
What made you decide to move here? I wanted to make video games, and I feel like New York is such a hub for media. I want to make games for change, like for example, ones that teach you about the environment, or just bloodshed. It depends.
Your outfit is giving more romance than bloodshed. Are you currently in love? I am, but he doesn't know that yet!
Katie Sidari, 22
Lives in: Westchester, N.Y.
Let me guess, is pink your favorite color? Yes, I've always loved pink since I was a child, so I always try to incorporate it into my outfit.
Demii Eubanks, 31
Lives in: Ridgewood, Queens
What was your idea behind the safety pins? I was going for more like a dark anime moment, but then I started going crazy with the safety pins and then it turned into this.
What kind of anime character? One with a skirt.
Cody McNeeley, 30
Lives in: Williamsburg, Brooklyn
Talk to me about your outfit. I decided I was going to do a skirt day, so I found this little denim one and this random cow shirt from Buffalo Exchange, and I said, "I could be a country bumpkin!" The boots I already had and the hat I stole from when I used to work for this little mouse in Florida.
By little mouse in Florida, do you mean Disney? Yes, and you can tell them I said that!
Stassia Smith, 28, and Gabriella Johnson, 26
Lives in: New York City and Las Vegas
How did you coordinate the outfits?
S.S.: So I had this Skims dress, and I taught her about Skims. And now look at her. What does she have on? Skims.
Was the matching blond hair intentional too?
S.S.: No, she copied off me with the blond.
G.J.: Yeah, no, as you can tell, I'm the fashion one!
Miss Zarah Misdemeanor, 37
Lives in: Denver
Who is Miss Zarah Misdeameanor? She is a lovable, kind, relatable drag entertainer. When I get on the stage, I'm here to provide joy for my queer brothers, sisters and siblings.
Walk me through your outfit today. I'm wearing a smiley-face shirt because I'm all about smiles and happiness, like that's what I represent. My boots and hat are from Akira, but I wish I didn't say that, because that's like my drag secret.
Is Akira another drag queen? She's not a drag entertainer; she's a full-on store in Chicago. So now I can never go back and perform.
Ayden Deanda-Rivera, 19
Lives in: San Francisco
Are you in the city only for Gov Ball? Yes, I just arrived yesterday. This is actually my first time in New York City.
What has surprised you the most about the festival? The crowd is definitely more straight than I imagined.
Kayla Weinstein, 22, and William Napoleone, 22
Lives in: Westchester County, N.Y., and Norwalk, Conn.
How did you guys coordinate your looks?
W.N.: Her idea, obviously.
K.W.: I literally told him wear something pink, and I will do the rest. Our outfits are on a budget, and we came out with this.
What do you love most about each other?
K.W.: I would say, you know, like his sense of humor. And like, his smile -- it's so infectious.
W.N.: She's adorable. I mean, just look at her.
Olivier Bois, 21
Lives in: Quebec, Canada
Tell me about your outfit today. Everything you see here is thrifted. I just got these overalls in New York for about $ 5 and this '70s shirt for like $ 5.
Did you do your own makeup? Of course, I'm an aesthetician.
What do you love about your job? I love doing people's makeup and making people feel better about themselves. One day I'm going to do Lizzo's makeup -- I'm putting that into the universe!
Jamilah Ray, 28
Lives in: Mount Vernon, N.Y.
Who are you most excited to see tonight? Lizzo because she embodies a plus-size woman like me, and I just love everything that she stands for.
What are you wearing today? I have a top that is made by one of my friends in Florida: Swami by Nadhi. I have on my mini shorts for Lizzo tonight, and I'm rocking some Adidas shoes.
Is that Michael Kors bag real? Oh yes, baby!
Photograph Ryleigh Goodrich, left, and Anthony Ras during Diplo's set at the Governors Ball Music Festival in Flushing Meadows Corona Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D6.

Subject: Music festivals

Location: New York City New York; Florida; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/12/style/governors-ball-weather.html

Title: Dressed to Kill, and Having a Weekend-Long Ball:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 15, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals- -United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825675310

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressed-kill-having-weekend-long-ball/docview/2825675310/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Shopping for 'Woke-Free' Beer? Read This.: [Op-Ed]

Author: Walther, Matthew

Publication info: Walther, Matthew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shopping-woke-free-beer-read-this/docview/2807822600/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A considerable number of Americans appear to believe that Bud Light, a beer owned since 2008 by the Belgian multinational corporation Anheuser-Busch InBev, stands for a distinct set of values. They further appear to believe that those values do not include -- are, indeed, directly opposed to -- being represented by people who are transgender. This became clear this month after the transgender activist Dylan Mulvaney posted on Instagram an informal video advertisement for Bud Light that featured a photo of a promotional tallboy can sporting an image of Ms. Mulvaney's face.
You may have caught wind of what followed: widespread outrage from social conservatives, calls for boycotts of the beer by country stars and rappers (including Kid Rock, who released a video in which he destroyed cases of Bud Light with an assault weapon), a significant drop in Bud Light's sales in one week and the loss of about $ 5 billion in market capitalization. This week, Bud Light's owner announced that two of its executives were taking a leave of absence.
Other than some passing discomfort for shareholders, everything about what I hope no one will be tempted to call Bud Light-gate has an air of unreality. In addition to Bud Light, InBev owns Corona, Stella Artois, Michelob, Beck's, Modelo and many other beer brands. Given the sweeping homogenization of global corporate culture and business practices, InBev's politics are roughly the same as those of all major companies: a combination of cutthroat economic libertarianism and progressive human resources-style "sensitivity" with which few Americans wholly identify.
Despite the passionate claims about its unique identity and its conservative political profile, the only value driving Bud Light, or any other consumer good available on a global scale, is the remorseless logic of shareholder value. That makes it hard to coherently express your politics with your beer preferences.
This was not always the case. In the 1970s, when Burt Reynolds and Jerry Reed set out from Texarkana to Atlanta to deliver a truckload of Coors Banquet in the movie "Smokey and the Bandit" and the country singer Johnny Paycheck was composing dithyrambs in praise of "Colorado Kool-Aid" ("Well, it's a can of Coors brewed from a mountain stream / It'll set you head on fire an' make your kidneys scream"), there was a real sense in which Coors was a right-wing beer.
The Coors family, which generally considered Richard Nixon an embarrassing squish, opposed unionization of its breweries, supported Ronald Reagan and donated large sums to the nascent Heritage Foundation. Unpasteurized, lacking preservatives and unavailable in Eastern states, Coors was alternately regarded as raffish and déclassé, promoted by cowboy stars and denounced by the gay rights leader Harvey Milk. In the words of a television spot from 1979: "It's not city beer. It's Coors."
My maternal grandfather, a toolmaker at Buick, would no more have allowed someone to drink Coors in his presence in defiance of a union boycott than he would have tolerated a foreign car parked in his driveway. For some of my other older male relations in Michigan, Coors was embraced as an exotic symbol of Western manliness, a welcome alternative not only to Pabst Blue Ribbon and other staid Midwestern brands but also to the United Auto Workers and what they saw as its feckless paternalism. A friend who grew up in Washington confirms my impression that during the 1980s, serving Coors was unthinkable in respectable middle-class liberal social circles.
Nowadays there are few widely available consumer products that can plausibly be identified as right wing. Even Chick-fil-A, whose charitable foundation has funded groups in favor of conversion therapy and criminalizing homosexuality, announced in 2019 that it would stop such funding.
Rather than acknowledge Bud Light's place in a faceless globalized chain of ownership, advertisements for the beer attempt to underscore its supposedly distinctive American and working-class character. Some years ago a series of advertisements featured the Bud Knight, a character who figured in faux-medieval settings alongside a royal personage known as the Dilly Dilly King. In one spot, the king enters a tavern and orders "Bud Lights for everyone," eliciting cries of approval from the assembled crowd. A lone man informs his majesty that he would prefer a "nice mead," an order that is amended, with ascending fussiness, to an "autumnal mead" that must be "malty and full-bodied." Instead of being served his preferred beverage, the man is placed in a pillory by the Bud Knight. The implication is that Bud Light is for ordinary decent people who just want to have a good time with their friends, not smug effete connoisseurs.
These commercials no doubt served as a winking affirmation of what some Bud Light customers perceive as their anti-elitist worldview. But the ads do not represent InBev -- its stated or implied commitments -- in any detectable way. It is marketing all the way down. To use the language of computer programming, Bud Light is a "skin," a user interface that overlays the underlying software and hardware of generic large-scale corporate profit-seeking. This state of affairs is often obscured, perhaps because it is not human-scaled. (It's telling that when Kid Rock expressed his opposition to the Mulvaney spot, he denounced not InBev but Anheuser-Busch.)
Of all the responses to the Mulvaney affair, the most clueless was an advertisement for something called Ultra Right Beer, an astonishingly expensive alternative to Bud Light -- $ 20 for a six-pack -- that bills itself as "100 percent woke-free" beer for people "who know which restroom to use." On its website, the purveyors of Ultra Right urge customers to cease "giving money to companies who hate our values." But in our homogenized corporate culture, all major companies "hate" the ostensible "values" espoused by the creators of Ultra Right -- or are completely indifferent to them.
In the world envisioned by Ultra Right, one in which corporations had political identities that transcended profit-seeking and liability minimization, InBev would have responded to its critics either by immediately firing the executives responsible for the marketing campaign or by swiftly offering an unconditional defense of transgender rights. Instead, InBev did neither: It left it to the market to decide.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
The editor of The Lamp, a Catholic literary journal, and a contributing Opinion writer.
This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Corporate culture; LGBTQ rights; Beer; Transgender persons; Charitable foundations; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate culture Breweries

People: Kid Rock (Bob Ritchie)

Company / organization: Name: InBev SA; NAICS: 312120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/29/opinion/bud-light-sales.html

Title: Shopping for 'Woke-Free' Beer? Read This.:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 1, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2807822600

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shopping-woke-free-beer-read-this/docview/2807822600/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Man Who Crashed Into Teens Is Found Guilty of Murder: [National Desk]

Author: Mccarthy, Lauren

Publication info: Mccarthy, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-who-crashed-into-teens-is-found-guilty-murder/docview/2807592736/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Anurag Chandra was convicted of first-degree murder and attempted murder after crashing his car into another vehicle, killing three teenagers and injuring three others.
A California man who crashed into a car of six teenagers after they played a doorbell ditch prank at his home in 2020 was convicted of murder on Friday.
The man, Anurag Chandra, was found guilty of three counts of first-degree murder and three counts of attempted murder in the crash on Temescal Canyon Road in Riverside County, Calif., after a jury deliberated for less than three hours. The Riverside County District Attorney's Office argued in the Superior Court of California that the crash, which killed three 16-year-old boys, was intentional.
Mr. Chandra is set to face sentencing in July and could see life in prison without the possibility of parole.
"The response and actions taken by the defendant are egregious and extremely disproportionate to a teen ringing a doorbell and running away," John Hall, a spokesman with the district attorney's office, said in an email at the time.
In January 2020, one of the boys in the car had been dared to prank a home, the district attorney's office said, and the six teenagers drove to Mr. Chandra's in Corona, about 50 miles southeast of Los Angeles. The boy rang the doorbell and returned to the Prius they were riding in, and the group drove off.
Mr. Chandra then chased after them in his own vehicle, prosecutors said, and rammed into the back of the Prius, "causing it to veer off the road and into a tree." He fled after the crash, the California Highway Patrol said, and was arrested after witnesses followed him to a home and alerted the authorities.
Three boys, Daniel Hawkins, Jacob Ivascu and Drake Ruiz, were killed, the authorities said. The driver, Sergio Campusano, then 18, and two other boys, Joshua Hawkins, then 13, and Joshua Ivascu, then 14, were injured.
During the trial, Mr. Chandra testified that he had been afraid for his family's safety that night when he saw a person with a hooded sweatshirt outside his home, and that he chased down the other car to verbally express his anger, The Press-Enterprise reported. He also testified that he had drunk 12 bottles of beer on the night of the crash, the newspaper reported.
"The murder of these young men was a horrendous and senseless tragedy for our community," Mike Hestrin, the Riverside County district attorney, said in an emailed statement. "I thank the jury for their verdict."
David Wohl, an attorney for Mr. Chandra, called the verdict "unfortunate."
"We didn't think in any way, shape or form that it was a first-degree murder," he said, adding that "there was a lot of passion surrounding this case for the past three years."
Mr. Wohl said he would file a motion for a new trial on Mr. Chandra's behalf and would appeal the guilty verdict if the motion was denied.
"We feel there are quite a few issues that are ripe for appeal," he said, but declined to share additional details. Mr. Wohl added that he thought the defense exposed in their arguments a "great deal of corruption that was done in this investigation."
Kevin Beecham, a deputy district attorney, said in an emailed statement that the prosecution was "very pleased that justice was served for the victims and mourn with their families over the losses they suffered."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: District attorneys; Murders & murder attempts; Teenagers; Trials

Location: California; United States--US; Riverside County California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/29/us/doorbell-prank-california-guilty.html

Title: Man Who Crashed Into Teens Is Found Guilty of Murder:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 30, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2807592736

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-who-crashed-into-teens-is-found-guilty-murder/docview/2807592736/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

2 Anheuser-Busch Executives on Leave After Bud Light Promotion With Transgender Influencer: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holpuch, Amanda; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Holpuch, Amanda; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-anheuser-busch-executives-on-leave-after-bud/docview/2805794108/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Anheuser-Busch announced the moves after a conservative backlash over its association with the actress and social media personality Dylan Mulvaney.
The maker of Bud Light, Anheuser-Busch, said on Tuesday that two of its executives were on a leave of absence after the beer was featured in a social media promotion by a transgender influencer.
Bud Light's sales have slumped amid calls for a boycott because of the advertisement and criticism of the company's response to the backlash, which included targeted harassment of one of the executives who is on leave.
Alissa Heinerscheid, the vice president of marketing for Bud Light, and Daniel Blake, who oversees marketing for Anheuser-Busch's mainstream brands, were on leave, the company said in a statement.
"We have made some adjustments to streamline the structure of our marketing function to reduce layers so that our most senior marketers are more closely connected to every aspect of our brands' activities," Anheuser-Busch said in a statement. "These steps will help us maintain focus on the things we do best: brewing great beer for all consumers, while always making a positive impact in our communities and on our country."
The company's turmoil began on April 1, when a transgender influencer, Dylan Mulvaney, posted a video on her Instagram account to promote a Bud Light March Madness contest to her 1.8 million followers. In her post, which was less than a minute long, she said that the company had sent her a tallboy can of Bud Light with her face on it. An image of the can was edited into the video.
Within days, conservative celebrities and politicians called for a boycott of the brand. These calls were then followed by calls for a reverse boycott, or buycott, encouraging people to buy Bud Light to show support for the marketing.
Brendan Whitworth, the chief executive of Anheuser-Busch InBev, indirectly addressed the controversy in a statement on April 14.
"We never intended to be part of a discussion that divides people," he said. "We are in the business of bringing people together over a beer."
This did not subdue the criticisms of Bud Light, which grew to include complaints about its tepid response to the backlash, as well as the targeted harassment of Ms. Heinerscheid.
Critics of the advertisement with Ms. Mulvaney had found a podcast interview from March in which Ms. Heinerscheid said that some of Bud Light's previous advertisements had "fratty, sort of out-of-touch humor" and that the company would need to be more inclusive for its demographic to grow. As the podcast quotes circulated, The Daily Caller, The New York Post and The Daily Mail published photos of Ms. Heinerscheid at a party in college in 2006.
Ms. Heinerscheid and Mr. Blake could not immediately be reached for comment.
News of the executives' leaves began circulating after a report about Ms. Heinerscheid on Friday in Beer Business Daily, a trade publication, and another about her superior, Mr. Blake, on Sunday in The Wall Street Journal.
The controversy has had a negative effect on Bud Light's sales, which dropped 17 percent in the week ending on April 15, Beer Business Daily said.
In the United States, the beer industry is dominated by two large brewers that control 65 percent of beer sales: the Molson Coors Beverage Company, which owns well-known brands including Coors and Miller, and Anheuser-Busch InBev, which also owns Corona and Michelob.
A little more than 20 years ago, beer accounted for about half of alcohol sales in the country. Last year, that market share was about 42 percent, as sales of gin, vodka and other spirits have grown sharply in recent years.
Anheuser-Busch, which has introduced nonalcoholic and canned cocktail drinks, reported that its beer sales in North America fell 4 percent last year.
Bump Williams, who runs an alcoholic beverage consulting firm, said he was becoming concerned that the Bud Light controversy could result in a negative "halo effect" around Anheuser-Busch's other brands, many of which did see small dips in sales.
Harry Schuhmacher, the publisher of Beer Business Daily, said that as Bud Light sales have fallen, they rose almost dollar for dollar for its competitors Miller Lite and Coors Light.
Mr. Schuhmacher said that the situation was "terrible" in the short-term for Bud Light, but it was likely to have less of an effect on the company's long-term business because the brand was already in decline. "This just steepens that curve of decline that was already happening," he said.
He said that the popularity of different beer brands tends to vary by generation and Bud Light is experiencing the slump in that cycle.
"It's been going on since Prohibition was repealed," he said. "And brands cycle through about every 20 to 30 years."
He said that there could be a "silver lining" for the company since the controversy has attracted so much attention from the media.
"They seemingly took a stand although they didn't really back it up that well," Mr. Schuhmacher said. "They threw it out there and hid, which I think is unfair to Dylan and unfair to the trans community a little bit."
The criticism of Bud Light arose as Republican state lawmakers are proposing legislation that seeks to regulate the lives of young transgender people, restrict drag shows in a way that could broadly encompass performances by transgender people, and require schools to out transgender students to their parents.
Ms. Mulvaney has been documenting her transition on TikTok, where she has more than 10.8 million followers. In March, she celebrated one year of her "Days of Girlhood" series.
Anheuser-Busch said earlier this month that it "works with hundreds of influencers across our brands as one of many ways to authentically connect with audiences across various demographics" and gave Ms. Mulvaney a personalized can with her face on it to "celebrate a personal milestone."
Ms. Mulvaney has not responded to the Bud Light uproar, but she addressed the hostility she has faced in an interview on the "Onward With Rosie O'Donnell" podcast that was released amid the backlash. She is "an easy target," she said, "because I'm still new to this."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Marketing; Beer; Social networks; Transgender persons; Breweries; Brand names; Boycotts; Executives; Advertising campaigns; Leaves of absence; Conservatism

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks Breweries Brand names Executives Advertising campaigns Leaves of absence

Location: United States--US

People: Mulvaney, Dylan

Company / organization: Name: Anheuser-Busch Cos Inc; NAICS: 312120, 713110; Name: Anheuser-Busch InBev; NAICS: 312120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/25/business/bud-light-dylan-mulvaney.html

Title: 2 Anheuser-Busch Executives on Leave After Bud Light Promotion With Transgender Influencer:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805794108

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-anheuser-busch-executives-on-leave-after-bud/docview/2805794108/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions