____________________________________________________________

Calista Flockhart Flutters Into a Vipers' Nest: [Style Desk]

Author: Dowd, Maureen

Publication info: Dowd, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-flutters-into-vipers-nest/docview/2918856550/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On a chilly January weekend in Los Angeles, I turned into a truffle pig. I foraged relentlessly all over town, looking for truffle fries.
By Monday, when it was time to go to my interview, the only thing in my suitcase I could squeeze into was a Spanx dress.
"My sister gave me this for Christmas," I explained sheepishly to the famously lissome Calista Flockhart as I slid into a booth on the terrace of the Georgian Hotel. "I guess you've never owned any Spanx."
"I love Spanx!" she said. "In fact, I just ordered -- no kidding -- a pair of Spanx jeans. They make really cute jeans. They're very wide."
Seeing my skeptical look, she reminded me: "It's not only about sucking it all in. It's about smoothing it all the way. No panty lines."
And then, as we sat in this romantic spot, looking out at the ocean, she said the thing that made me fall in love: "Would you like to nibble on something? How about some French fries?"
And suddenly I realized how much I had missed the woman who shot to mega-stardom in the late 1990s as Ally McBeal, the quirky Boston lawyer with miniskirts and maxi-neuroses -- a role she reprised at the Emmys this month, doing a whimsical dance with her male former co-stars on a set resembling the show's fabled unisex bathroom, with Barry White on the soundtrack.
Ms. Flockhart virtually disappeared from stage and screen at the height of her stardom, riding off into the Brentwood sunset with another star, Harrison Ford. She had dropped out to be a mom, to focus on raising Liam, the baby son she had adopted a year before meeting Mr. Ford.
Now, at 59, she's back, playing a bouffanted Lee Radziwill in Ryan Murphy's latest nest of vipers, "Feud: Capote vs. the Swans," the new season of his FX anthology series. Mr. Murphy has described it as "the original 'Real Housewives."'
For 30 pieces of silver, and to satisfy his literary ambitions, Truman Capote turned on his beloved swans, the willowy women who reigned over New York society in the '50s and '60s, in a sable-lined world of champagne, cigarette holders and Porthault sheets.
As the show makes clear, the swans feared and loathed two things: bad lighting and younger women. They relished sharing a good bottle of Pouilly-Fumé at lunch while administering "a collection of cool scalpel cuts without the benefit of anesthesia" on their friends, and then going home to sleep it off.
I asked Ms. Flockhart if she would have liked to lunch with this haut monde group.
"Maybe once," she replied. "I felt very sorry for them. Here they are, the toast of New York -- rich, jewels, apartments, houses in the country, houses in Europe. They travel all the time on private planes. They have yachts. They are dictating what is in and what is not. Underneath all that, they were very sad, very lonely and really unhappy women."
As the Truman character tells his lover on the way to La Côte Basque for lunch with his swans: "Some swans actually drown under the beauty and weight of their fantastical, superficial plumage. They just can't keep going."
Wielding the excuse that writers must write, Mr. Capote betrayed the elegant Ladies Who Lunched by revealing all their seamy Upper East Side secrets -- from adultery to alleged murder -- in a 1975 Esquire article, "La Côte Basque, 1965." In it, he referred to Lee and her sister, Jackie Kennedy, as "a pair of Western geisha girls."
The exposé was society's version of the "Oppenheimer" explosion. Capote -- perhaps afraid that his talent had gone cold after "In Cold Blood"; perhaps avenging his mother, a Southern belle who had abandoned him to try in vain to break into Manhattan society -- planned it as an execution.
"There's the handle, the trigger, the barrel and, finally, the bullet," he told People magazine about "Answered Prayers," the expanded book version of his piece, which was not published in his lifetime. "And when that bullet is fired from the gun, it's going to come out with a speed and power like you've never seen -- WHAM!"
Five decades later, Ms. Flockhart joins a flock of big-name actresses on the latest installment of Mr. Murphy's "Feud." Naomi Watts plays the No. 1 swan, a tortured Babe Paley, who was considered by Mr. Capote to be the most perfect woman ever made; Diane Lane is Slim Keith, who pushes to ostracize the Judas writer; Chloë Sevigny is the society doyenne C.Z. Guest; Molly Ringwald is a sweet West Coast swan, Joanne Carson, Johnny's ex; and Demi Moore is Ann Woodward, a showgirl who shot her banking-heir husband to death but was never charged because she claimed she had mistaken him for a burglar -- an excuse Mr. Capote airily dismissed.
Jessica Lange plays the ghost of Mr. Capote's mother, an alcoholic who killed herself in 1954; the phantom savors his takedown of the breed of women who had rejected her. And in portraying the Puck of Fifth Avenue, Tom Hollander manages the impossible, holding his high-pitched own against Philip Seymour Hoffman, the star of the acclaimed 2005 film "Capote."
Ms. Radziwill, our own Princess Margaret and an O.G. influencer, poured her heart out to Mr. Capote, telling him about her disintegrating marriage, about being overshadowed by Jackie, and about Jackie's purloining her beau, Aristotle Onassis. "My God: how jealous she is of Jackie," Mr. Capote wrote in a letter in 1962 to Cecil Beaton. "I never knew." He tried to help her be an actress, writing the teleplay for a new version of the classic Gene Tierney movie "Laura" in 1968, but that was a fiasco.
Ms. Radziwill called Tru her "Answered Prayer" and engraved those words for him on a cigarette case lined with gold. He took her term of endearment and made it the title of his devastating book.
As the show depicts, the writer repaid all that intimacy by setting a bonfire to the swans' vanities -- the alcohol, the anorexia, the plastic surgery, the straying husbands, not to mention the streak of feral bitchiness, which matched his own. "La Côte Basque, 1965" may have finished off New York society, but it also finished off Mr. Capote, who spiraled further into alcoholism and died nine years later without having regained his seat at the table.
Mr. Murphy said that Ms. Flockhart had always been at the top of his list to play Ms. Radziwill, because he'd heard tales of her brilliant stage performances as a young woman.
"Lee Radziwill was, of all of them, the most viperous and the darkest, the most in pain," he said. "She was the most famous -- American royalty. I wasn't sure that Calista, who had been Ally McBeal and really had a reputation of being America's sweetheart, girl-next-door, would want to do something like that at this point in her life. But she said yes with no hesitation. She really went for it, which I admired. She was sharp and dagger-like.
"She was also so kind and prepared and helpful," he continued. "And I took her out to see Isaac Mizrahi at a Valentine's Day concert at Café Carlyle, and she was just a good-time girl. Hilarious and fun."
People who have worked with Ms. Flockhart describe her as shy, dryly funny and thoughtful about sending flowers and gifts to support staff members. She is not vain and prefers not to look at herself, either on television or in the mirror.
"She has a kind of molecular pixie dust," said her old friend, the playwright, television writer and actor Jon Robin Baitz. "It sort of courses through her veins. It makes her capable of the greatest thing an actor can do, which is to surprise you."
Mr. Baitz worked with Ms. Flockhart more than a decade ago on the ABC drama "Brothers and Sisters," a show he created. He is also a co-writer, with Mr. Murphy, of the new "Feud," and plays Ms. Radziwill's third husband, the director Herbert Ross, on the show. Mr. Baitz called Ms. Flockhart "the master of the panicked comic glance."
"When someone does something weird, she will catch your eye, widen hers and exude, 'Get me out of here!'" he said. "Then go back to an absolutely neutral expression. She has perfect comic timing."
Greg Berlanti, a writer and executive producer of "Brothers and Sisters," said that when the cast had its top-of-the-season meeting -- in which actors typically push to shape their characters' arcs -- Ms. Flockhart had only wanted to check the calendar to make sure she could attend important school events for her son.
"She always reminds me of a Golden Age star," he said. "She just has that Rosalind Russell, Kate Hepburn kind of feel, where she's strong and sexy and smart and bubbly." Like an old-school star, she is enigmatic, with flashes of screwball, but Mr. Berlanti said that she's also "like a rock. She survived a lot of scrutiny and I think has a really well-balanced life to show for it."
Ms. Flockhart said she loved the "Feud" costumes -- "I should have lived in the '60s, for sure" -- but she does not share the swans' dedication to the Best Dressed List.
"I'm not going to wear a purse that says Gucci all over it, because that just seems strange," she said. "I'm also just very frugal. I have some really beautiful designer clothes, but 90 percent of my wardrobe is from Nordstrom. Just what's comfortable, what works."
She made the very un-Lee Radziwill decision to wear a 24-year-old canary yellow Ralph Lauren maxi-skirt to the premiere of "Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny" in June. She had first worn it to the 1999 Emmys, when "Ally McBeal" took the award for top comedy.
She and Mr. Ford make a glamorous team on the red carpet. I asked her why she hadn't gone to the Golden Globes with him the night before -- the scene of their first meeting 22 years ago.
They had a lot of awards things coming up, she said, "so I opted to stay home, big bowl of popcorn, and we watched a lot of football. Liam was there. My dogs were there." She flipped between the Buffalo Bills and the Globes.
Her personal style is casual. "I have a uniform," she said. "I switch from a gray sweater to a black sweater back to the gray sweater to a black sweater." (Her longtime stylist, Elizabeth Stewart, said Ms. Flockhart's "main style concern is that she's warm. I tell her I'll get her a wet suit to wear under her gown.")
On this windy day, she is wearing loose-fit Levi's, a white T-shirt, an oversize Jenni Kayne gray sweater and Adidas sneakers. She sports a large diamond engagement ring -- "My husband has very good taste, I would say" -- and a colorful beaded bracelet.
"I think it's a Pride bracelet," she said, "but it might not be."
She looks Ally-young, more like a graduate student in English literature (her mother was an English teacher) than a woman closing in on 60. I gazed into her eyes to see if they matched Mr. Capote's description of Lee Radziwill's as "a glass of brandy resting on a table in front of firelight."
"It depends on the light," she said. "Green-brown. Hazel. Sometimes brown. Sometimes beige."
Although Jackie Kennedy is featured in only one scene in the show, Ms. Flockhart said she had read up on Lee's competitive relationship with her older sister.
"Truman Capote recognized that she was living in her sister's shadow," the actress said, "and he would say things: 'You're so much prettier. You're so much smarter. You're more interesting. You have better style.' She really needed to hear that. I think it made her really love Truman. He was fun, and she confided in him, like they all did."
Does she have a squad like the swans?
"I have four really good friends that I've had since my son was in kindergarten, and then I have two other ones," she said. "All mothers. Our kids were friends. It's been 16 years, and I feel like they're my army. There through thick and thin."
But she doesn't have lunch with them because, she said, "I hate going to lunch. I love going to dinner. I'll even do breakfast. But to spend my time in the middle of the day at lunch is not my thing."
Mr. Murphy appreciates that Ms. Flockhart and some of the other actresses playing swans had shared the experience in the '90s of "being a young person and wanting to be a star and famous, and then you get sucked up in that system and it's not all it cracked up to be. It's hard. They were both revered and punished. They got through the gauntlet of a tremendous amount of tabloid journalism."
When I told Ms. Flockhart this, she agreed. "Yes, it seems a lifetime ago," she said. "I have a lot of distance and perspective, and I'm still incredulous. I cannot believe that I was scrutinized and pursued like that. It was intense and it was unfair."
David E. Kelley, the creator of "Ally McBeal," said he had become interested in Ms. Flockhart because of her appealing turn as Gene Hackman's daughter in Mike Nichols's drag celebration, "The Birdcage." She was an instant success and a cultural lightning rod when "Ally McBeal" debuted in 1997. Some feminists complained that the character was too ditsy and man-crazy and that her skirts were too short.
Ms. Flockhart recalled how casually that wardrobe decision had been made: "I said to the costume designer: 'It either has to be long or short. It can't be in the middle, because that doesn't make my leg look good.' She said, 'OK, let's go short.' I said, 'Cool, let's go short.' And then all of a sudden there was this huge short-skirt scandal, which was really fun."
That didn't bother her, although she was taken aback by a 1998 Time magazine cover that showed headshots of Susan B. Anthony, Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem alongside a picture of Ally McBeal above the query "Is Feminism Dead?" Nancy Friday, the late author on female sexuality, was quoted: "Ally McBeal is a mess. She's like a little animal. You want to put her on a leash."
Ms. Flockhart recalled: "I don't think I was hurt. I was surprised. I thought, this is just a character that is invented out of a man's mind to entertain. I don't think I saw it as such a statement. I was just trying to remember my lines."
Mr. Kelley concurred: The character "was a cocktail of good and bad and fragile and strong emotions and attitudes. When I saw the cover of that magazine, oh, man, I just wanted to crawl into a hole, because that was never our intent to be proffering the character of Ally McBeal as a beacon of either feminism or womanhood at the time."
He noted that, as an actor withstanding an avalanche of publicity, and as a woman, adopting a baby while she was single (as his own wife, Michelle Pfeiffer, did), Ms. Flockhart was always "a very brave person."
Far from killing feminism, Ally inspired many young career women to stop imitating men at the office in how they acted and dressed and emoted -- or didn't. She rebutted the idea, then in fashion, that any display of "female behavior," talk of clothes or dates or babies, was a mark against women. She was a proponent of the idea -- later reinforced by "Sex and the City" -- that femininity and feminism weren't mutually exclusive.
"Now we can be who we are and still run the world," Ms. Flockhart told me.
I worried at the time that several of the actresses in Mr. Kelley's universe -- Ms. Flockhart, Lara Flynn Boyle, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Portia de Rossi -- were getting too thin. Ms. Thorne-Smith and Ms. de Rossi later talked about their 300-calorie-a-day eating disorders.
Ms. Flockhart said she had been hurt by chatter about whether she had anorexia.
"I don't think that would ever happen today," she said. (Especially in an Ozempic-chic time, when Oprah and a hefty slice of Hollywood are getting as skinny as Ally.) "They call it body-shaming now. I haven't thought about it in a long time, but it's really not OK to accuse someone of having a disease that a lot of people struggle with.
"It wasn't the case, and there was nothing I could do to convince anybody or get out of it. If I had worn a big padded bra, they probably would never have been able to target me in that way. I look back at pictures, and I'm the same then as I am now, and nobody says a word now. I was an easy target, I guess. It was painful, it was complicated. I loved working on 'Ally McBeal,' and it just made it sour. I was very sleep-deprived and I was depressed about it. I did think that it was going to ruin my career. I didn't think anybody would ever hire me again, because they would just assume I had anorexia, and that would be the end of that."
"Clearly," she continued, "I had days where I was really hurt and embarrassed and infuriated. I was lucky that I had to work. I just put my head down. I always felt like, 'Calista, you're a good person, you're not mean to anybody,' and I'm confident in that."
She added: "I honestly have never been in a situation where I have to watch my weight. My mom is 4-11 now, and she weighed 93 pounds when she was married. Talk about a little tiny elf. I just have small bones, and I just am lucky."
Another stressful element was the kerfuffle around Robert Downey Jr., who joined the cast in its fourth season, as a fellow lawyer and love interest. He and Ms. Flockhart had great chemistry; the ratings spiked, and he won a Golden Globe. But he was fired the next year, after he was arrested on drug charges.
"We were such good friends, and I loved acting with him," Ms. Flockhart said. Lately, they have been attending the same awards shows, as Mr. Downey collects laurels for his role as Lewis Strauss in "Oppenheimer." "I am really happy for him," she added.
Asked about the talk of an "Ally McBeal" revival, she said, "I would definitely consider it."
On the family drama "Brothers and Sisters," she played a pundit inspired by me, in reverse. Her character, Kitty Walker, was a conservative who tangled with her liberal siblings and her mom, played by Sally Field.
"So how was that, playing me?" I asked.
"It was amazing," she deadpanned. "It was the best ever."
I wondered if you could even have a show about "a tender conservative" in the era of Donald Trump.
"Now there's a whole different polarization happening, obviously," she said. She added that she hates the politicization of climate change and finds the conservative rollback on women's rights "infuriating."
I have done interviews over the years with married stars, like Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward, and the ego management seems hard. But somehow Ms. Flockhart and Mr. Ford seem to have maintained a romantic and playful relationship.
"They get a kick out of each other," Mr. Baitz said.
They hold hands on the red carpet; they get caught on camera canoodling at the airport as they shuttle between Brentwood and their ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyo.; and they play practical jokes on each other.
"I'm called the 'Scare Monster' in my house because I hide behind every corner," she said. "And so Harrison will walk in, and then I'll go, 'Raaah!' And he'll go, 'W-uy-aah!' And then I die laughing. I'll put a plastic spider inside his big ice cubes in the tray, and then he'll drink it. But then I'll go to bed two weeks later, and he's out of town in Jackson, and I'll take the covers down and there's this little rubber scorpion. It's fun."
She mused that one of the reasons that it has worked is because she was "really content being home" as a full-time mom. "I didn't have the same dreams at the time, so we weren't competing with each other."
"We're very independent of each other in some ways," she added, "and probably incredibly codependent on each other in others."
Her independence startled him at first. "It scares him, I think, sometimes," she said, laughing. "When I first met him, he said, 'You are the most self-sufficient woman in the world, and I don't know how I feel about that.' I remember I said, 'What are you talking about?' Because I didn't recognize I was self-sufficient."
She added: "The other reason it works is, we're both pretty introverted. We stay home a lot, homebodies, which is nice."
He is known to bend the ears of dinner partners about how proud he is of her, as a mother and an actress. He told me he was "blown away" by her portrayal of the raging Martha in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" at the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles in 2022; he had never seen her onstage.
They have never worked together. "We've explored it a little bit, but it's never really happened," she said.
Ms. Flockhart, who played Helena in the 1999 film of "A Midsummer Night's Dream," has the ethereal air of a fairy queen who wandered out of the enchanted forest of Arden onto Santa Monica Boulevard. So I wasn't surprised when she said her favorite thing to do is get up at 5:30 a.m. when the moon is up and go for a hike with her dogs.
"It's my happy place," she said. "I love being in nature. I used to be a city girl. You couldn't take me out of the city. Now I just want to be quiet." In nature, she said, "your guard goes down. You don't have to look any way or feel any way. You just are."
She loves to read -- everything from Tolstoy and Chekhov to "Harry Potter."
She just reread the wizard's tale for the first time since Liam was little. "Harrison rolled over in bed," she said, "and he said, 'I have never seen you stay up until 3 o'clock in the morning to read a book."'
Her husband's hobbies are more physical. He started as a carpenter and has a workshop at home. I confessed to Ms. Flockhart that my girlfriends and I used to fantasize that Han Solo would come fix our kitchen cabinets. Does he fix hers?
"He built the table at the end of the bed for the TV to come up and out of," she said. "I can boss him around pretty much about everything. I'm not guaranteed that he'll do it. He has been exploring his carpentry roots lately, because he had more time with the strike."
These days, she leaves him to his more adventurous pursuits.
She no longer flies with him in small planes, following his 2015 crash on a Los Angeles golf course in a vintage World War II plane that suffered a mechanical failure. She rushed to the hospital and learned he had a shattered pelvis, a broken right ankle and a broken back.
"It might, in fact, be one of the worst things I've ever been through in my life," she said. "It was horrible." A couple of years later, Mr. Ford was climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. "I won't fly in any little plane," she said. "I'll only fly when he's in a jet, with a co-pilot."
She no longer goes motorcycle riding with him. "I went once, when I was young and stupid," she said. "We were riding on a highway in Jackson on the way to the airport, and the wind was so strong and the helmet was so heavy that I couldn't move my neck for three days."
What do they like to do as a couple?
"We loved watching 'Barry' together," she said. "When Liam was young, we all watched Hercule Poirot obsessively. We started doing some jigsaw puzzles during Covid."
She got certified in scuba diving for trips with Harrison and Liam to Bonaire in the Caribbean and Raja Ampat in Indonesia; she loves it because it's "so peaceful under the water."
Her favorite thing about her husband? "I love his sense of humor and I love it when he's tender with the dogs," she said. She has three: a 19-year-old Chihuahua, Muggs, and two terrier mixes, January and Juno.
I confessed that I had tried the trick she used to meet Mr. Ford -- spilling a drink on someone -- but just ended up with irritated guys. That meet-cute story is not quite accurate, as it turns out.
Ms. Flockhart told me her version of the night that is now part of Hollywood lore, and later, in a separate interview, Mr. Ford told me his.
They met at the 2002 Golden Globes. She was nominated for her role in "Ally McBeal," and he received the Cecil B. DeMille lifetime achievement award. She looked fetching in a strapless dress, designed for her by Oscar de la Renta, in shirred pink lace over a nude base, with ruffles cascading at the bottom.
Harrison: "I saw this lady. I asked my agent: 'Wow! Who's that girl?' He said, 'That's Calista Flockhart.' I said, 'Oh, what does she do?' He says, 'She's Ally McBeal.' I hadn't really seen it. I said, 'Well, could you introduce us?' He said, 'Yes."'
Calista: "Harrison came over to say hi. When he left, I said: 'Ugh, what a lascivious old man. What is he doing?' After the show, we started talking. Then I was really charmed by him."
Harrison: "I had this thing, the award, in my hand, and it was easier to hold upside down."
Calista: "I joked: 'Oh, what's that? A place for me to put my red wine?' Then, of course, because he's who he is and he can't hold still, he went, 'Ugh,' and then the red wine went everywhere. It didn't land on me. I was safe. It was all over him, maybe. Maybe on the floor, mostly."
Harrison: "She spilled wine on me, or I spilled wine on her or something, and that sort of sealed the deal. I said, 'Where do you live?' She said, 'I live in Brentwood.' I said: 'So do I. Would you want to have a drink?' She said, 'Well, maybe, but I have to bring my agent.' I said, 'OK, I'll bring my agent, too.' We went to the old Brentwood Bar and Grill and had a drink. I lured her up to my house and we danced, and then I took her home. Make sure you put that in the story. And we've sort of been together ever since."
Mr. Ford was not daunted by the idea of dating a new mother. "Didn't scare me off," he said. "When I met Liam, he was just beginning to walk, and it just didn't matter to me. I had four children already, and I can't count that well, so it didn't make that much difference."
And Ms. Flockhart was not daunted by the 22-year age gap. She said she often feels like the older one, adding drolly, "because he's so immature."
Mr. Ford has talked about how his career made him a worse parent, because he was traveling so much for work. How was he with Liam, I wondered.
"I think he was a really good father in a lot of ways, and maybe because he was on Round 2 or Round 3, so he had matured and grown up and, I think, evolved into being a good father," she said. "He's such a good father to his kids now. I love his kids, my stepkids."
Liam graduated from Amherst last year. "He's an academic, I think," said Ms. Flockhart, a Rutgers grad.
I ask if she knows the true story of how Mr. Ford got the scar on his chin (which made for a funny scene in Mike Nichols's "Working Girl.")
"I don't know if I can divulge it," she said. "Should I call and ask him?"
She phoned her husband. "Hi," she said. "Is it a secret how you got your scar on your chin? OK. Yes. Yes. Bye. Bye."
She turned to me: "It was a car crash on the way to work at Bullock's department store. He says he's lied about it many times." (In his 20s, Mr. Ford was an assistant buyer in the knickknacks and oil painting section of the Los Angeles store.)
As the sun began to set and the wind whipped up, we ordered chamomile tea to get warm.
"We've had to work," she said about her marriage. "We've had our ups, we've had downs like everybody else -- mostly ups, which is good -- and we just stay together. He's the person that I want to call when something happens. That knee-jerk thing where I have to call Harrison."
Confirm or Deny
Maureen Dowd: You and Harrison get into cosplay with your iconic characters, Indiana Jones and Ally McBeal.
Calista Flockhart: Deny!
The "Indiana Jones" bullwhip is in the bedroom drawer.
No. That's hilarious.
You use the bullwhip --
Deny. Deny. Deny. One hundred percent deny.
You made Harrison get rid of his earring.
Deny. It's long gone. That was a passing fad.
Every time Harrison drops an F-bomb, you make him put a dollar in the swear jar.
Not a bad idea, but deny. I always say, "Seriously?" But then, I can drop the F-bomb like nobody's business, too.
The dancing baby on "Ally McBeal" still gives you nightmares.
Deny. I always remember thinking it was a little creepy, but it never gave me nightmares.
Like me, you once had a job handing out towels in a health club.
Confirm. You did, too?
As Lee Radziwill said, "Taste is an emotion."
That's a good one. Confirm.
Photograph Calista Flockhart at home, above, and right, with her husband, Harrison Ford. Bottom, Lee Radziwill and Truman Capote in 1966. Below left, Ms. Flockhart as Ms. Radziwill in the FX series "Feud: Capote vs. the Swans." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PFLUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MICHAEL TRAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; FX; SANTI VISALLI/GETTY IMAGES) (ST8-ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Women; Actors; Books; Alcoholism

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Flockhart, Calista; Radziwill, Lee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/26/style/calista-flockhart-ally-mcbeal-feud.html

Title: Calista Flockhart Flutters Into a Vipers' Nest:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918856550

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-flutters-into-vipers-nest/docview/2918856550/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What the Rich Wear While Out Getting Groceries: [Style Desk]

Author: Zucker, Andrew

Publication info: Zucker, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-rich-wear-while-out-getting-groceries/docview/2918856520/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As a personal assistant to a well-to-do retiree, Nora Szigeti is tasked with much of the usual fare: managing a calendar, booking travel, running errands. But after her 70-year-old boss recently came across an Instagram post shared by the account Class of Palm Beach, which documents outfits people have worn around that wealthy town, she took on another duty: publicist.
"My boss would be a perfect person for your site," Ms. Szigeti, 50, recalled writing in a message to the account in November. Soon after, her employer, Oblio Wish, appeared in a video shared by Class of Palm Beach, in which she showed off her wardrobe full of items from Dior, Gucci and Chanel.
She is one of the hundreds of Palm Beach residents and visitors -- whose ages have ranged from 20-something to 80-something -- who have been featured on Class of Palm Beach's Instagram, TikTok and Facebook accounts since they were started last March. Its accounts on those three platforms now have a combined audience of more than one million followers.
On the 14-mile-long island, Class of Palm Beach functions for some as a sort of social-media-age Shiny Sheet, a nickname for the Palm Beach Daily News, a paper that fills its pages with photographs from society galas and luncheons.
For others, like Ms. Szigeti, its accounts offer a near-daily glimpse into how the ultrarich dress. (A report from the U.S. Census Bureau listed the median household income in Palm Beach between 2018 and 2022 as $ 190,824.) Brunello Cucinelli, Zimmermann, and Hermès are names often uttered by people featured on the Class of Palm Beach accounts, many of whom can be seen clutching Chanel bags.
"For them, it's so ordinary: 'Oh, today I'm wearing a Rolex, and it's just a Birkin,"' Ms. Szigeti said of how casually some of the accounts' subjects can refer to watches and bags most people only dream of owning. "I have to save up two years to buy even half the Birkin."
Devorah Ezagui, 28, who lived in Palm Beach for part of her childhood, started the Class of Palm Beach accounts after moving back to the area last year. She had previously been living in New York, where she had been juggling personal training and marketing gigs, and where she would often ask people on the street about their outfits, she said.
The fashion in Palm Beach involves the same labels worn in other wealthy enclaves, but the way people wear them evokes a certain lifestyle, Ms. Ezagui said. The accounts, she added, were meant to showcase that lifestyle and offer an escape, as well as fashion inspiration.
Alanna Strei, a real estate agent in San Diego who discovered Class of Palm Beach on Instagram, said she appreciated its aesthetic of "old money glam" and its aspirational tone. Ms. Strei added that she also likes how the account features a breadth of people, not just "Real Housewives of Miami" types, as she put it.
Ms. Ezagui's videos for Class of Palm Beach are mostly man-on-the-street interviews in which she probes subjects about their clothes, accessories and fragrances while filming them on her iPhone. The approach is similar to that of other social media accounts that have started documenting outfits in well-heeled locations like Madison Avenue in New York and Greenwich, Conn.
Ms. Ezagui, whose wardrobe includes Celine flats and Maison Margiela denim shorts, is also a personal stylist to clients in the Palm Beach and New York areas. She said she spent at least four hours a day managing the Class of Palm Beach accounts, which have shared sponsored posts paid for by brands.
The accounts have also featured a few of the clients Ms. Ezagui has styled, she said, but most subjects are strangers she has encountered while out and about, whether shopping at a local Publix grocery store or at stores on Worth Avenue, a ritzy retail strip.
Though she has been to Mar-a-Lago, the residence of former President Donald J. Trump, she has yet to document any outfits there. "It was actually something I wanted to look into," she said. But there are "strict rules" about "going over to other people's tables" at the private club, she added.
The types of people she looks for have effervescent personalities and appear to have "really put intention into their outfit," she said. Ms. Ezagui added that about 70 percent of those she has asked to feature have agreed.
Most of those people are white women, a trend some followers of the accounts have pointed out in comments. Ms. Ezagui said the demographics of those featured was less reflective of her choices than it was of Palm Beach's population. A recent Census Bureau report found that about 94 percent of the town's residents were white and zero percent were Black.
"There's not everybody in this area," Ms. Ezagui said.
Some followers have also asked that she focus on a younger crowd. But Ms. Ezagui said that videos of older subjects reliably got more attention. "I know what will do well," she said.
On a rainy Saturday in January, as she was walking along Worth Avenue, Ms. Ezagui stopped to praise the outfit of a passerby, Carolina Paulino, who was wearing Zimmermann separates, Loro Piana shoes, an Hermès handbag and Cartier bracelets. Then came the question: Would she want to be filmed for a video?
Ms. Paulino, 28, who had come to have lunch in Palm Beach from Miami, agreed. She later said the outfit she was wearing was meant to evoke a "vibe of luxury, but beach."
Ms. Ezagui said that some people had asked her to feature fewer subjects in designer clothes and more in stylish items from affordable retailers like TJ Maxx. But to her, luxurious labels are a key element to Class of Palm Beach's success.
"People are trying to look for inspiration," she said.
Photograph Clockwise from top left: Carolina Paulino with an Hermès handbag and Cartier bracelets; Devorah Ezagui, who created Class of Palm Beach; Ms. Ezagui, left, filming Ms. Paulino; and Palm Beach pedestrians. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES JACKMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST2.

Subject: Clothing; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Bureau of the Census; NAICS: 926110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/20/style/class-of-palm-beach-tiktok-instagram-wealth.html

Title: What the Rich Wear While Out Getting Groceries:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918856520

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-rich-wear-while-out-getting-groceries/docview/2918856520/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Calista Flockhart Is Back, With a Flock of Venomous Swans

Author: Dowd, Maureen

Publication info: Dowd, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-is-back-with-flock-venomous/docview/2918806780/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SANTA MONICA, Calif. — On a chilly January weekend in Los Angeles, I turned into a truffle pig. I foraged relentlessly all over town, looking for truffle fries.
By Monday, when it was time to go to my interview, the only thing in my suitcase I could squeeze into was a Spanx dress.
“My sister gave me this for Christmas,” I explained sheepishly to the famously lissome Calista Flockhart as I slid into a booth on the terrace of the Georgian Hotel. “I guess you’ve never owned any Spanx.”
“I love Spanx!” she said. “In fact, I just ordered — no kidding — a pair of Spanx jeans. They make really cute jeans. They’re very wide.”
Seeing my skeptical look, she reminded me: “It’s not only about sucking it all in. It’s about smoothing it all the way. No panty lines.”
And then, as we sat in this romantic spot, looking out at the ocean, she said the thing that made me fall in love: “Would you like to nibble on something? How about some french fries?”
And suddenly I realized how much I had missed the woman who shot to mega-stardom in the late 1990s as Ally McBeal, the quirky Boston lawyer with miniskirts and maxi-neuroses — a role she reprised at the Emmys this month, doing a whimsical dance with her male former co-stars on a set resembling the show’s fabled unisex bathroom, with Barry White on the soundtrack.
Flockhart virtually disappeared from stage and screen at the height of her stardom, riding off into the Brentwood sunset with another star, Harrison Ford. She had dropped out to be a mom, to focus on raising Liam, the baby son she had adopted a year before meeting Ford.
Now, at 59, she’s back, playing a bouffanted Lee Radziwill in Ryan Murphy’s latest nest of vipers, “Feud: Capote vs. the Swans,” the new season of his FX anthology series. Murphy has described it as “the original ‘Real Housewives.’”
For 30 pieces of silver, and to satisfy his literary ambitions, Truman Capote turned on his beloved swans, the willowy women who reigned over New York society in the ’50s and ’60s, in a sable-lined world of Champagne, cigarette holders and Porthault sheets.
As the show makes clear, the swans feared and loathed two things: bad lighting and younger women. They relished sharing a good bottle of Pouilly-Fumé at lunch while administering “a collection of cool scalpel cuts without the benefit of anesthesia” on their friends, and then going home to sleep it off.
I asked Flockhart if she would have liked to lunch with this haut monde group.
“Maybe once,” she replied. “I felt very sorry for them. Here they are, the toast of New York — rich, jewels, apartments, houses in the country, houses in Europe. They travel all the time on private planes. They have yachts. They are dictating what is in and what is not. Underneath all that, they were very sad, very lonely and really unhappy women.”
As the Truman character tells his lover on the way to La Côte Basque for lunch with his swans: “Some swans actually drown under the beauty and weight of their fantastical, superficial plumage. They just can’t keep going.”
Wielding the excuse that writers must write, Capote betrayed the elegant Ladies Who Lunched by revealing all their seamy Upper East Side secrets — from adultery to alleged murder — in a 1975 Esquire article, “La Côte Basque, 1965.” In it, he referred to Lee Radziwill and her sister, Jackie Kennedy, as “a pair of Western geisha girls.”
The exposé was society’s version of the “Oppenheimer” explosion. Capote — perhaps afraid that his talent had gone cold after “In Cold Blood”; perhaps avenging his mother, a Southern belle who had abandoned him to try in vain to break into Manhattan society — planned it as an execution.
“There’s the handle, the trigger, the barrel and, finally, the bullet,” he told People magazine about “Answered Prayers,” the expanded book version of his piece, which was not published in his lifetime. “And when that bullet is fired from the gun, it’s going to come out with a speed and power like you’ve never seen — WHAM!”
Five decades later, Flockhart joins a flock of big-name actresses on the latest installment of Murphy’s “Feud.” Naomi Watts plays the No. 1 swan, a tortured Babe Paley, who was considered by Capote to be the most perfect woman ever made; Diane Lane is Slim Keith, who pushes to ostracize the Judas writer; Chloë Sevigny is the society doyenne C.Z. Guest; Molly Ringwald is a sweet West Coast swan, Joanne Carson, Johnny’s ex; and Demi Moore is Ann Woodward, a showgirl who shot her banking-heir husband to death but was never charged because she claimed she had mistaken him for a burglar — an excuse Capote airily dismissed.
Jessica Lange plays the ghost of Capote’s mother, an alcoholic who killed herself in 1954; the phantom savors his takedown of the breed of women who had rejected her. And in portraying the Puck of Fifth Avenue, Tom Hollander manages the impossible, holding his high-pitched own against Philip Seymour Hoffman, the star of the acclaimed 2005 film “Capote.”
Radziwill, our own Princess Margaret and an OG influencer, poured her heart out to Capote, telling him about her disintegrating marriage, about being overshadowed by Jackie, and about Jackie’s purloining her beau, Aristotle Onassis. “My God: how jealous she is of Jackie,” Capote wrote in a letter in 1962 to Cecil Beaton. “I never knew.” He tried to help her be an actress, writing the teleplay for a new version of the classic Gene Tierney movie “Laura” in 1968, but that was a fiasco.
Radziwill called Capote her “Answered Prayer” and engraved those words for him on a cigarette case lined with gold. He took her term of endearment and made it the title of his devastating book.
As the show depicts, the writer repaid all that intimacy by setting a bonfire to the swans’ vanities — the alcohol, the anorexia, the plastic surgery, the straying husbands, not to mention the streak of feral bitchiness, which matched his own. “La Côte Basque, 1965” may have finished off New York society, but it also finished off Capote, who spiraled further into alcoholism and died nine years later without having regained his seat at the table.
Murphy said that Flockhart had always been at the top of his list to play Radziwill, because he’d heard tales of her brilliant stage performances as a young woman.
“Lee Radziwill was, of all of them, the most viperous and the darkest, the most in pain,” he said. “She was the most famous — American royalty. I wasn’t sure that Calista, who had been Ally McBeal and really had a reputation of being America’s sweetheart, girl-next-door, would want to do something like that at this point in her life. But she said yes with no hesitation. She really went for it, which I admired. She was sharp and dagger-like.
“She was also so kind and prepared and helpful,” he continued. “And I took her out to see Isaac Mizrahi at a Valentine’s Day concert at Café Carlyle, and she was just a good-time girl. Hilarious and fun.”
People who have worked with Flockhart describe her as shy, dryly funny and thoughtful about sending flowers and gifts to support staff members. She is not vain and prefers not to look at herself, either on television or in the mirror.
“She has a kind of molecular pixie dust,” said her old friend, playwright, television writer and actor Jon Robin Baitz. “It sort of courses through her veins. It makes her capable of the greatest thing an actor can do, which is to surprise you.”
Baitz worked with Flockhart more than a decade ago on the ABC drama “Brothers and Sisters,” a show he created. He is also a co-writer, with Murphy, of the new “Feud,” and plays Radziwill’s third husband, director Herbert Ross, on the show. Baitz called Flockhart “the master of the panicked comic glance.”
“When someone does something weird, she will catch your eye, widen hers and exude, ‘Get me out of here!’" he said. “Then go back to an absolutely neutral expression. She has perfect comic timing.”
Greg Berlanti, a writer and executive producer of “Brothers and Sisters,” said that when the cast had its top-of-the-season meeting — in which actors typically push to shape their characters’ arcs — Flockhart had only wanted to check the calendar to make sure she could attend important school events for her son.
“She always reminds me of a Golden Age star,” he said. “She just has that Rosalind Russell, Kate Hepburn kind of feel, where she’s strong and sexy and smart and bubbly.” Like an old-school star, she is enigmatic, with flashes of screwball, but Berlanti said that she’s also “like a rock. She survived a lot of scrutiny and I think has a really well-balanced life to show for it.”
Flockhart said she loved the “Feud” costumes — “I should have lived in the ’60s, for sure” — but she does not share the swans’ dedication to the Best Dressed List.
“I’m not going to wear a purse that says Gucci all over it, because that just seems strange,” she said. “I’m also just very frugal. I have some really beautiful designer clothes, but 90% of my wardrobe is from Nordstrom. Just what’s comfortable, what works.”
She made the very un-Lee Radziwill decision to wear a 24-year-old canary yellow Ralph Lauren maxi-skirt to the premiere of “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny” in June. She had first worn it to the 1999 Emmys, when “Ally McBeal” took the award for top comedy.
She and Ford make a glamorous team on the red carpet. I asked her why she hadn’t gone to the Golden Globes with him the night before — the scene of their first meeting 22 years ago.
They had a lot of awards things coming up, she said, “so I opted to stay home, big bowl of popcorn, and we watched a lot of football. Liam was there. My dogs were there.” She flipped between the Buffalo Bills and the Globes.
Her personal style is casual. “I have a uniform,” she said. “I switch from a gray sweater to a black sweater back to the gray sweater to a black sweater.” (Her longtime stylist, Elizabeth Stewart, said Flockhart’s “main style concern is that she’s warm. I tell her I’ll get her a wetsuit to wear under her gown.”)
On this windy day, she is wearing loose-fit Levi’s, a white T-shirt, an oversize Jenni Kayne gray sweater and Adidas sneakers. She sports a large diamond engagement ring — “My husband has very good taste, I would say” — and a colorful beaded bracelet.
“I think it’s a Pride bracelet,” she said, “but it might not be.”
She looks Ally-young, more like a graduate student in English literature (her mother was an English teacher) than a woman closing in on 60. I gazed into her eyes to see if they matched Capote’s description of Lee Radziwill’s as “a glass of brandy resting on a table in front of firelight.”
“It depends on the light,” she said. “Green-brown. Hazel. Sometimes brown. Sometimes beige.”
Although Jackie Kennedy is featured in only one scene in the show, Flockhart said she had read up on Radziwill’s competitive relationship with her older sister.
“Truman Capote recognized that she was living in her sister’s shadow,” the actress said, “and he would say things: ‘You’re so much prettier. You’re so much smarter. You’re more interesting. You have better style.’ She really needed to hear that. I think it made her really love Truman. He was fun, and she confided in him, like they all did.”
Does she have a squad like the swans?
“I have four really good friends that I’ve had since my son was in kindergarten, and then I have two other ones,” she said. “All mothers. Our kids were friends. It’s been 16 years, and I feel like they’re my army. There through thick and thin.”
But she doesn’t have lunch with them because, she said, “I hate going to lunch. I love going to dinner. I’ll even do breakfast. But to spend my time in the middle of the day at lunch is not my thing.”
Murphy appreciates that Flockhart and some of the other actresses playing swans had shared the experience in the ’90s of “being a young person and wanting to be a star and famous, and then you get sucked up in that system and it’s not all it cracked up to be. It’s hard. They were both revered and punished. They got through the gauntlet of a tremendous amount of tabloid journalism.”
When I told Flockhart this, she agreed. “Yes, it seems a lifetime ago,” she said. “I have a lot of distance and perspective, and I’m still incredulous. I cannot believe that I was scrutinized and pursued like that. It was intense and it was unfair.”
David E. Kelley, the creator of “Ally McBeal,” said he had become interested in Flockhart because of her appealing turn as Gene Hackman’s daughter in Mike Nichols’ drag celebration “The Birdcage.” She was an instant success and a cultural lightning rod when “Ally McBeal” debuted in 1997. Some feminists complained that the character was too ditsy and man-crazy and that her skirts were too short.
Flockhart recalled how casually that wardrobe decision had been made: “I said to the costume designer: ‘It either has to be long or short. It can’t be in the middle, because that doesn’t make my leg look good.’ She said, ‘OK, let’s go short.’ I said, ‘Cool, let’s go short.’ And then all of a sudden there was this huge short-skirt scandal, which was really fun.”
That didn’t bother her, although she was taken aback by a 1998 Time magazine cover that showed headshots of Susan B. Anthony, Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem alongside a picture of Ally McBeal above the query “Is Feminism Dead?” Nancy Friday, the late author on female sexuality, was quoted: “Ally McBeal is a mess. She’s like a little animal. You want to put her on a leash.”
Flockhart recalled: “I don’t think I was hurt. I was surprised. I thought, this is just a character that is invented out of a man’s mind to entertain. I don’t think I saw it as such a statement. I was just trying to remember my lines.”
Kelley concurred: The character “was a cocktail of good and bad and fragile and strong emotions and attitudes. When I saw the cover of that magazine, oh, man, I just wanted to crawl into a hole, because that was never our intent to be proffering the character of Ally McBeal as a beacon of either feminism or womanhood at the time.”
He noted that, as an actor withstanding an avalanche of publicity, and as a woman, adopting a baby while she was single (as his own wife, Michelle Pfeiffer, did), Flockhart was always “a very brave person.”
Far from killing feminism, Ally inspired many young career women to stop imitating men at the office in how they acted and dressed and emoted — or didn’t. She rebutted the idea, then in fashion, that any display of “female behavior,” talk of clothes or dates or babies, was a mark against women. She was a proponent of the idea — later reinforced by “Sex and the City” — that femininity and feminism weren’t mutually exclusive.
“Now we can be who we are and still run the world,” Flockhart said.
I worried at the time that several of the actresses in Kelley’s universe — Flockhart, Lara Flynn Boyle, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Portia de Rossi — were getting too thin. Thorne-Smith and de Rossi later talked about their 300-calorie-a-day eating disorders.
Flockhart said she had been hurt by chatter about whether she had anorexia.
“I don’t think that would ever happen today,” she said. (Especially in an Ozempic-chic time, when Oprah Winfrey and a hefty slice of Hollywood are getting as skinny as Ally.) “They call it body-shaming now. I haven’t thought about it in a long time, but it’s really not OK to accuse someone of having a disease that a lot of people struggle with.
“It wasn’t the case, and there was nothing I could do to convince anybody or get out of it. If I had worn a big padded bra, they probably would never have been able to target me in that way. I look back at pictures, and I’m the same then as I am now, and nobody says a word now. I was an easy target, I guess. It was painful, it was complicated. I loved working on ‘Ally McBeal,’ and it just made it sour. I was very sleep-deprived and I was depressed about it. I did think that it was going to ruin my career. I didn’t think anybody would ever hire me again, because they would just assume I had anorexia, and that would be the end of that.”
“Clearly," she continued, “I had days where I was really hurt and embarrassed and infuriated. I was lucky that I had to work. I just put my head down. I always felt like, ‘Calista, you’re a good person, you’re not mean to anybody,’ and I’m confident in that.”
She added: “I honestly have never been in a situation where I have to watch my weight. My mom is 4-11 now, and she weighed 93 pounds when she was married. Talk about a little tiny elf. I just have small bones, and I just am lucky.”
Another stressful element was the kerfuffle around Robert Downey Jr., who joined the cast in its fourth season, as a fellow lawyer and love interest. He and Flockhart had great chemistry; the ratings spiked, and he won a Golden Globe. But he was fired the next year, after he was arrested on drug charges.
“We were such good friends, and I loved acting with him,” Flockhart said. Lately, they have been attending the same awards shows, as Downey collects laurels for his role as Lewis Strauss in “Oppenheimer.” “I am really happy for him,” she added.
Asked about the talk of an “Ally McBeal” revival, she said, “I would definitely consider it.”
On the family drama “Brothers and Sisters,” she played a pundit inspired by me, in reverse. Her character, Kitty Walker, was a conservative who tangled with her liberal siblings and her mom, played by Sally Field.
“So how was that, playing me?” I asked.
“It was amazing,” she deadpanned. “It was the best ever.”
I wondered if you could even have a show about “a tender conservative” in the era of Donald Trump.
“Now there’s a whole different polarization happening, obviously,” she said. She added that she hates the politicization of climate change and finds the conservative rollback on women’s rights “infuriating.”
I have done interviews over the years with married stars, like Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward, and the ego management seems hard. But somehow Flockhart and Ford seem to have maintained a romantic and playful relationship.
“They get a kick out of each other,” Baitz said.
They hold hands on the red carpet; they get caught on camera canoodling at the airport as they shuttle between Brentwood and their ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyoming; and they play practical jokes on each other.
“I’m called the ‘Scare Monster’ in my house because I hide behind every corner,” she said. “And so Harrison will walk in, and then I’ll go, ‘Raaah!’ And he’ll go, ‘W-uy-aah!’ And then I die laughing. I’ll put a plastic spider inside his big ice cubes in the tray, and then he’ll drink it. But then I’ll go to bed two weeks later, and he’s out of town in Jackson, and I’ll take the covers down and there’s this little rubber scorpion. It’s fun.”
She mused that one of the reasons that it has worked is because she was “really content being home” as a full-time mom. “I didn’t have the same dreams at the time, so we weren’t competing with each other.”
“We’re very independent of each other in some ways," she added, “and probably incredibly codependent on each other in others.”
Her independence startled him at first. “It scares him, I think, sometimes,” she said, laughing. “When I first met him, he said, ‘You are the most self-sufficient woman in the world, and I don’t know how I feel about that.’ I remember I said, ‘What are you talking about?’ Because I didn’t recognize I was self-sufficient.”
She added: “The other reason it works is, we’re both pretty introverted. We stay home a lot, homebodies, which is nice.”
He is known to bend the ears of dinner partners about how proud he is of her, as a mother and an actress. He told me he was “blown away” by her portrayal of the raging Martha in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” at the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles in 2022; he had never seen her onstage.
They have never worked together. “We’ve explored it a little bit, but it’s never really happened,” she said.
Flockhart, who played Helena in the 1999 film of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” has the ethereal air of a fairy queen who wandered out of the enchanted forest of Arden onto Santa Monica Boulevard. So I wasn’t surprised when she said her favorite thing to do is get up at 5:30 a.m. when the moon is up and go for a hike with her dogs.
“It’s my happy place,” she said. “I love being in nature. I used to be a city girl. You couldn’t take me out of the city. Now I just want to be quiet.” In nature, she said, “your guard goes down. You don’t have to look any way or feel any way. You just are.”
She loves to read — everything from Leo Tolstoy and Anton Chekhov to “Harry Potter.”
She just reread the wizard’s tale for the first time since Liam was little. “Harrison rolled over in bed,” she said, “and he said, ‘I have never seen you stay up until 3 o’clock in the morning to read a book.’”
Her husband’s hobbies are more physical. He started as a carpenter and has a workshop at home. I confessed to Flockhart that my girlfriends and I used to fantasize that Han Solo would come fix our kitchen cabinets. Does he fix hers?
“He built the table at the end of the bed for the TV to come up and out of,” she said. “I can boss him around pretty much about everything. I’m not guaranteed that he’ll do it. He has been exploring his carpentry roots lately, because he had more time with the strike.”
These days, she leaves him to his more adventurous pursuits.
She no longer flies with him in small planes, following his 2015 crash on a Los Angeles golf course in a vintage World War II plane that suffered a mechanical failure. She rushed to the hospital and learned he had a shattered pelvis, a broken right ankle and a broken back.
“It might, in fact, be one of the worst things I’ve ever been through in my life,” she said. “It was horrible.” A couple of years later, Ford was climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. “I won’t fly in any little plane,” she said. “I’ll only fly when he’s in a jet, with a co-pilot.”
She no longer goes motorcycle riding with him. “I went once, when I was young and stupid,” she said. “We were riding on a highway in Jackson on the way to the airport, and the wind was so strong and the helmet was so heavy that I couldn’t move my neck for three days.”
What do they like to do as a couple?
“We loved watching ‘Barry’ together,” she said. “When Liam was young, we all watched Hercule Poirot obsessively. We started doing some jigsaw puzzles during COVID.”
She got certified in scuba diving for trips with Ford and Liam to Bonaire in the Caribbean and Raja Ampat in Indonesia; she loves it because it’s “so peaceful under the water.”
Her favorite thing about her husband? “I love his sense of humor and I love it when he’s tender with the dogs,” she said. She has three: a 19-year-old Chihuahua, Muggs, and two terrier mixes, January and Juno.
I confessed that I had tried the trick she used to meet Ford — spilling a drink on someone — but just ended up with irritated guys. That meet-cute story is not quite accurate, as it turns out.
Flockhart told me her version of the night that is now part of Hollywood lore, and later, in a separate interview, Ford told me his.
They met at the 2002 Golden Globes. She was nominated for her role in “Ally McBeal,” and he received the Cecil B. DeMille lifetime achievement award. She looked fetching in a strapless dress, designed for her by Oscar de la Renta, in shirred pink lace over a nude base, with ruffles cascading at the bottom.
Harrison: “I saw this lady. I asked my agent: ‘Wow! Who’s that girl?’ He said, ‘That’s Calista Flockhart.’ I said, ‘Oh, what does she do?’ He says, ‘She’s Ally McBeal.’ I hadn’t really seen it. I said, ‘Well, could you introduce us?’ He said, ‘Yes.’”
Calista: “Harrison came over to say hi. When he left, I said: ‘Ugh, what a lascivious old man. What is he doing?’ After the show, we started talking. Then I was really charmed by him.”
Harrison: “I had this thing, the award, in my hand, and it was easier to hold upside down.”
Calista: “I joked: ‘Oh, what’s that? A place for me to put my red wine?’ Then, of course, because he’s who he is and he can’t hold still, he went, ‘Ugh,’ and then the red wine went everywhere. It didn’t land on me. I was safe. It was all over him, maybe. Maybe on the floor, mostly.”
Harrison: “She spilled wine on me, or I spilled wine on her or something, and that sort of sealed the deal. I said, ‘Where do you live?’ She said, ‘I live in Brentwood.’ I said: ‘So do I. Would you want to have a drink?’ She said, ‘Well, maybe, but I have to bring my agent.’ I said, ‘OK, I’ll bring my agent, too.’ We went to the old Brentwood Bar and Grill and had a drink. I lured her up to my house and we danced, and then I took her home. Make sure you put that in the story. And we’ve sort of been together ever since.”
Ford was not daunted by the idea of dating a new mother. “Didn’t scare me off,” he said. “When I met Liam, he was just beginning to walk, and it just didn’t matter to me. I had four children already, and I can’t count that well, so it didn’t make that much difference.”
And Flockhart was not daunted by the 22-year age gap. She said she often feels like the older one, adding drolly, “because he’s so immature.”
Ford has talked about how his career made him a worse parent, because he was traveling so much for work. How was he with Liam, I wondered.
“I think he was a really good father in a lot of ways, and maybe because he was on Round 2 or Round 3, so he had matured and grown up and, I think, evolved into being a good father,” she said. “He’s such a good father to his kids now. I love his kids, my stepkids.”
Liam graduated from Amherst last year. “He’s an academic, I think,” said Flockhart, a Rutgers grad.
I ask if she knows the true story of how Ford got the scar on his chin (which made for a funny scene in Mike Nichols’ “Working Girl.”)
“I don’t know if I can divulge it,” she said. “Should I call and ask him?”
She phoned her husband. “Hi,” she said. “Is it a secret how you got your scar on your chin? OK. Yes. Yes. Bye. Bye.”
She turned to me: “It was a car crash on the way to work at Bullock’s department store. He says he’s lied about it many times.” (In his 20s, Ford was an assistant buyer in the knickknacks and oil painting section of the Los Angeles store.)
As the sun began to set and the wind whipped up, we ordered camomile tea to get warm.
“We’ve had to work,” she said about her marriage. “We’ve had our ups, we’ve had downs like everybody else — mostly ups, which is good — and we just stay together. He’s the person that I want to call when something happens. That knee-jerk thing where I have to call Harrison.”
—
CONFIRM OR DENY
Maureen Dowd: You and Harrison get into cosplay with your iconic characters, Indiana Jones and Ally McBeal.
Calista Flockhart: Deny!
Dowd: The “Indiana Jones” bullwhip is in the bedroom drawer.
Flockhart: No. That’s hilarious.
Dowd: You use the bullwhip —
Flockhart: Deny. Deny. Deny. One hundred percent deny.
Dowd: You made Harrison get rid of his earring.
Flockhart: Deny. It’s long gone. That was a passing fad.
Dowd: Every time Harrison drops an F-bomb, you make him put a dollar in the swear jar.
Flockhart: Not a bad idea, but deny. I always say, “Seriously?” But then, I can drop the F-bomb like nobody’s business, too.
Dowd: The dancing baby on “Ally McBeal” still gives you nightmares.
Flockhart: Deny. I always remember thinking it was a little creepy, but it never gave me nightmares.
Dowd: Like me, you once had a job handing out towels in a health club.
Flockhart: Confirm. You did, too?
Dowd: As Lee Radziwill said, “Taste is an emotion.”
Flockhart: That’s a good one. Confirm.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Women; Actors; Books; Alcoholism

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Flockhart, Calista; Radziwill, Lee

Identifier / keyword: People (Magazine); Downey, Robert Jr; Dowd, Maureen; Murphy, Ryan; Wyoming; Geffen Playhouse; Porthault; Animal Behavior; Movies; Baitz, Jon Robin; Restaurants; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Celebrities; Mental Health And Disorders; Women's Rights; Parties (Social); Domestic Violence; Amherst College; Capote, Truman; Oscar De La Renta Llc; Radziwill, Lee; Pigs; Parenting; Conservatism (Us Politics); Careers And Professions; Abc Inc; Shyness; Diving And Divers; Jackson Hole (Wyo); Golden Globes (Awards); Field, Sally; Ringwald, Molly; Academy Awards (Oscars); Flockhart, Calista; California; Moore, Demi; Adoptions; Eating Disorders; Automobiles; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Pfeiffer, Michelle; Kelley, David E; Dresses; Dancing; Moon; Friedan, Betty; Tierney, Gene; Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Avalanches; Onassis, Aristotle; Adultery; Europe; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Amherst (Mass); Anthony, Susan B; Gold; Love (Emotion); Santa Monica (Calif); Steinem, Gloria; Caribbean Area; Weddings And Engagements; Indonesia; Jewels And Jewelry; Woolf, Virginia; Fx (Tv Network); Nordstrom Inc; Raja Ampat Islands (Indonesia); Global Warming; Boyle, Lara Flynn; Women And Girls; Taste; Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Mizrahi, Isaac; Hoffman, Philip Seymour; Dogs; Paley, Barbara Cushing; Los Angeles (Calif); Weight; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Anorexia Nervosa; Ross, Herbert; Hackman, Gene; Alcoholic Beverages; Writing And Writers; Demille, Cecil B; Buffalo Bills; Workplace Environment; Theater; Puzzles; Deaths (Fatalities); Newman, Paul; Truffles; Chekhov, Anton; Beauty (Concept); Marriages; Education (K 12); Lifestyle; Dating And Relationships; Thorne Smith, Courtney; Woodward, Joanne; Gucci; Beaton, Cecil; Labor And Jobs; Robberies And Thefts; Upper East Side (Manhattan, Ny); Bonaire; Basques; Nichols, Mike; Magazines; Television; Virginia; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Russell, Rosalind; Woodward, Ann; Aviation Accidents, Safety And Disasters; Esquire (Magazine); De Rossi, Portia; Ford, Harrison; Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Manhattan (Nyc); Berlanti, Greg; Winfrey, Oprah; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Wines; Kayne, Jenni; Insects; Mount Kilimanjaro (Tanzania); Adidas Ag; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Lange, Jessica; Lane, Diane; Memory; Rutgers, The State University Of New Jersey; Hollander, Tom; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological; Comedy And Humor

Title: Calista Flockhart Is Back, With a Flock of Venomous Swans

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 27, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-27T16:50:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918806780

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/calista-flockhart-is-back-with-flock-venomous/docview/2918806780/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gucci's Reboot Brings Back Old-School Cool: [Style Desk]

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guccis-reboot-brings-back-old-school-cool/docview/2916782925/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The headline was Gucci. The headline was always going to be Gucci, in the same way the Ever Given was destined to dominate the news cycle when the mammoth vessel, one of the largest container ships ever built, got stuck in the Suez Canal back in 2021.
Gucci is, in a way, the Ever Given of the personal luxury goods trade. With more than 500 stores worldwide and an estimated market value in 2022 of $ 35.3 billion, it is that skyscraper-size tanker, caught sideways. The entire fashion business took a hit during the pandemic and then bounced back, or seemed to, with a surprising resilience. Then it encountered something that in its way was as unexpected as that grounding of a nautical behemoth thrown off course by fluke winds.
In Gucci's case it was the fickleness of shifting taste. When Alessandro Michele, the former creative director of the brand -- founded in Florence in 1921 as a leather goods manufacturer catering to a sophisticated carriage trade, and now owned by the luxury goods giant Kering -- said in an interview with this reporter back in 2020 that "maybe one day I will not be relevant," he was sending a signal, to both his bosses and the culture at large.
Mr. Michele was a creative savant and lucky, as he has said, to have survived a quarter century in the business largely by following his instincts (or his "stomach" as he said.) He knew. The instincts that helped elevate him from journeyman accessories designer to star were already giving him the itch to move on. This was largely because society was about to do the same.
The gender play Mr. Michele pioneered -- pussy bows and rhinestones and tiger prints and baby-doll dresses on guys -- and that for a brief, giddy and obscenely profitable moment drove Gucci's valuation to great heights, were absorbed by the culture with alacrity. Harry Styles in a dress on Vogue's November 2020 cover looked groundbreaking for about a minute. Harry Styles in a dress now would hardly rate a second glance.
And the not-so-dirty secret at every luxury goods house is that overall sales are driven not by apparel at all, but by leather goods, and not even costly handbags, at that. It would surprise people to learn how much profit there is in a logo key chain.
Gucci had to right the ship and return it to the mainstream. In attempting to do so, it hired as its new creative director Sabato De Sarno, a man so pragmatic by nature that interviewing him is less like consulting an ancient Greek sibyl, as was the case with Mr. Michele, than it is talking to the director of engineering at a boatyard.
"I love fashion, but I don't love the idea of fashion," Mr. De Sarno said one afternoon before his show. "I want to make things to use and wear, and not just things for shows or red carpet or editorials."
Seen through that lens, he is as much a man of his moment as Mr. Michele was of his. Virtually every fashion house showing in Milan this week made clear its understanding that consumers, particularly young consumers, are through with the hype. Pragmatism was the subtext of the best collections, and those were provided by labels as unalike as Prada, Tod's, Neil Barrett and Brunello Cucinelli. At each of those houses there was an emphasis on craftsmanship, which nowhere is as refined as it is in Italy.
The cliché on the Little Italy T-shirts turns out to be true: Italians Do It Better. Yes, there was the Renaissance. But for present purposes it is the marriage of craft, industrial design and high aesthetic values, which began here in the early 20th century, when the novel idea of providing luxury goods for the masses arose.
Those early designers and, eventually, scores of others put centuries-old artistic traditions to industrial use. It is premature to associate what Mr. De Sarno is doing with the work of giants like the architect and designer Gio Ponti. Yet the impetus is there, and the collection Mr. De Sarno presented -- a follow-up to a heavily-criticized teaser he presented during the women's wear shows in September -- made a strong case for him as a plausible successor to industrial innovators who refuted narrative, and focused instead on materiality and craft.
The knock on the De Sarno Gucci show was that it was commercial, as though there was something wrong with drilling down into the Gucci archives and sampling what he uncovered. There were versions of the original snaffle-bit loafer, interpreted variously as soft and lug soles or else studded brothel creepers; enlarged versions of the celebrated Jackie bag that Samuel Beckett, of all people, once slung over his shoulder; versions of the elegantly tailored outerwear Gucci was renowned for, although rendered in "Through the Looking Glass" volumes.
There were also versions of GG monogram suits in which the logo receded to become a kind of human gift-wrapping, and of previous designers' faux-fur topcoats that made reference to Mr. De Sarno's own love of cozy and protective garb. (He said he has 240 coats in his personal collection; coats are his security blanket.)
"I opened the show with the same coat, the same silhouette, the same bag" as he showed during women's wear, Mr. De Sarno told Vogue.com, as though he were flipping his critics the bird.
"I don't care about the Instagram moment," he added in conversation with this reporter, using saltier language. The Instagram moment, we all know, cannot be avoided. But it is not what floats Sabato De Sarno's boat.
Photograph In his first Gucci collection for men, the creative director Sabato De Sarno introduced a collection steeped in Italian heritage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIEL BOUYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; GUCCI) This article appeared in print on page ST2.

Subject: Fashion; Designers; Industrial design

Business indexing term: Subject: Designers Industrial design

Location: Italy

People: Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/16/style/gucci-mens-wear-italian-fashion.html

Title: Gucci's Reboot Brings Back Old-School Cool:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 21, 2024

column: Fashion Review

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916782925

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guccis-reboot-brings-back-old-school-cool/docview/2916782925/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Her Way Of Reaching The Divine: [Review]

Author: Green, Jesse

Publication info: Green, Jesse. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/her-way-reaching-divine/docview/2916553199/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Heather Christian's latest exploration of the religious sublime is a musical spectacle about the often overlooked "caregivers and makers."
When I've had the opportunity, as a wandering Jew, to visit the houses of worship of friends, I've never felt much in danger of conversion. But if I did, it would surely be the music that got me.
That's also been true for me when visiting the church of Heather Christian: I'm not sure what faith she's selling, but I'm a sucker for the way it sounds. In "Terce: A Practical Breviary," which opened on Sunday at the Space at Irondale in the Fort Greene neighborhood of Brooklyn, she offers a new installment in what is evidently a plan to remake the Catholic Mass of her childhood in egalitarian if cryptic new terms.
She's doing so one rhapsodic service at a time. In 2020 she offered "Prime," her version of the 6 a.m. liturgy. "Terce," produced by Here as the centerpiece of this year's Prototype festival, advances three hours to midmorning. (The title derives from the Latin for "third.") By then, a congregation would presumably be awake enough to absorb its sunlit richness.
That richness does not depend on the usual elements of plays or prayer: characters and narratives, pipe organs and priests. "Terce" is not theater except to the extent that religious ritual, being a parent of theater, bears a family resemblance.
And it's more of a spectacle than a service. Instead of emulating a leader-follower dichotomy, "Terce" draws from the talents and experiences of a singing, dancing and playing ensemble of 38 "caregivers and makers" -- some professional and even virtuosic like Christian, some amateur and unpolished. Keyboards, guitars, woodwinds, strings and percussion are part of the instrumental mix (music direction by Mona Seyed-Bolorforosh and Jacklyn Riha), but so are key rings, silverware, an eggbeater and a vacuum cleaner.
As those homely implements suggest, "Terce" focuses on the work of people not often celebrated in liturgy: those who keep house, cultivate gardens, nurture children. A program note describes the approach as a "lens of the divine feminine," albeit one that does not reject maleness.
The Heather Christian Version of Psalm 118, which in the King James Version begins, "O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good," makes the shift clear. "If Creation stepped down to be among us in the city," Christian sings, "She would not dress in Gucci or argue loud across the table."
Though the specific references can seem hermetic -- this is still private prayer, even if turned outward -- the vision is clear enough. References to mothers, plants and foods abound instead of kings and Armageddons. (Hazelnuts figure heavily.) The blood frequently mentioned is not Jesus', but "her own."
The music, too, is idiosyncratic: For 60 minutes, plainsong, gospel, electronica, soul and the New Orleans funk of Christian's upbringing layer into each other like atmospheric thermals. You ride them, completely trusting, with no idea where you're headed. Like Christian's astonishing "Oratorio for Living Things" in 2022, "Terce" aims to overwhelm the critical ear through the strangeness, relentlessness and fullness of its sound.
The sonic experience (sound design by Nick Kourtides) is matched by an immersive physical one. In Keenan Tyler Oliphant's rich staging at Irondale, the ensemble, wearing Brenda Abbandandolo's many clever cuts of denim, swarms around and among the audience of 190, who sit in a large oval just two rows deep. The modest, almost runic choreography is sourced, the program says, "from our own mothers," including Christian's and Oliphant's.
Throughout, video screens display text and illustrations; some include imagery reminiscent of stained glass, and one, drawn live at the performance I attended, a turnip. Hanging in the hollow above the oval, moodily lit by Masha Tsimring, is Nick Vaughan and Jake Margolin's vast rigging of ropes and pulleys and fabric panels, suggesting a ship and also a spiderweb.
Faith being both of those things, the image is fitting. I sometimes felt safe in the hold of something larger than myself and sometimes helplessly ensnared in its oddity. That you can't see everything happening on the other side of the oval -- and that the harmonies you hear depend on which performers are nearby -- enhances the idea that, however communal the expression, transcendence is intensely personal and fleeting.
"I grasp it," Christian writes in her adaptation of a prayer by the medieval anchoress Julian of Norwich, "for a moment and in bliss." And then: "I lose it."
Been there. Loved that.
Terce: A Practical Breviary
Through Feb. 4 at the Space at Irondale, Brooklyn; prototypefestival.org. Running time: 1 hour.
Photograph Heather Christian draws from plainsong, gospel, electronica, soul and New Orleans funk for a work that is a reworking of sorts of the Mass of her childhood. (C1); The new work by Heather Christian, center, presents a version of the 9 a.m. Roman Catholic Mass, though her presentation is more spectacle than religious service. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Rites & ceremonies; Religion; Caregivers; Theater

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/19/theater/terce-review-heather-christian.html

Title: Her Way Of Reaching The Divine:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 20, 2024

column: Critic's Pick

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 2916553199

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/her-way-reaching-divine/docview/2916553199/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2913993268/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Is it gauche to wear more than one ring on a hand? And once I have rings on the ring finger, what's next? Are there any ring etiquette rules? How do I make it not look tacky?
Beth, Brooklyn When Ariana Greenblatt, the 16-year-old "Barbie" actress, made her red carpet debut at the Golden Globes this month, she did so in a plain white Saint Laurent tuxedo shirt, black trousers and about 10 Chopard diamond rings, one on every finger. And she wasn't the only attendee so adorned.
The jewelry designer Irene Neuwirth, also at the Globes, stacked up seven of her pearl rings on both hands to go with her white Christy Rilling dress. "There's something a little lawless about wearing a lot of rings," she said when I asked.
Other ring aficionados include Johnny Depp, the former Gucci designer Alessandro Michele and the Dior designer Maria Grazia Chiuri, all of whom like to load on the finger jewelry, and all of whom underscore the point that there are no actual rules when it comes to how many rings you can wear at once or on what fingers you should wear them.
Still, there are certain considerations that should be taken into account. Our hands play key roles in how we interface with the world, and what we put on them matters.
On the one hand, said Rachel Garrahan, the project curator of jewelry at the Victoria and Albert Museum, "The pleasure of wearing a ring, unlike other forms of jewelry, is that the wearer gets to enjoy it as much as everyone else." Just look down at your hand when you want a shot of joy, or boost of confidence, she said. And if one ring does that, imagine what more could do.
Indeed, wearing rings you love can inspire, almost reflexively, a different, more dramatic way of speaking. One that involves a lot more gesticulating than, perhaps, has become customary.
On the other hand, a gaggle of rings can also associate you in the eye of the beholder with various aesthetic traditions -- goth, new romantics, heavy metal -- that themselves connect to specific stereotypes. So you should be prepared for the subconscious judgments that may ensue.
There are also practical considerations, Ms. Garrahan noted that what she called "prong-set gemstones" can snag on fine gauge knits. Stones like emeralds and opals are famously soft, so not practical for everyday wear.
The key to wearing them well is balance -- in jewelry, as in all things.
Ms. Neuwirth, for example, wore earrings with her rings but not bracelets or a big necklace. Ms. Greenblatt wore a few simple necklaces and only small studs. Both women kept their clothes minimal.
It's the contrast between grandeur and simplicity that is modern. If your hands are your focal points, you don't want the rest of your outfit competing for attention. That becomes less a statement than a screed.
Every week in the Open Thread newsletter, The Times's chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, answers a reader's fashion-related question. Sign up at nytimes.com/newsletters.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Jewelry

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/12/pageoneplus/15a3_openthread.html

Title: Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2913993268

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2913993268/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Mean Girls' Designer Has Heard the Complaints: [Style Desk]

Author: Holtermann, Callie

Publication info: Holtermann, Callie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mean-girls-designer-has-heard-complaints/docview/2913829494/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some people have roasted the outfits in the new film, but there were reasons the Plastics got a Gen Z spin. (Among them: social media, fast fashion and the pandemic.)
When fans first glimpsed outfits in the new adaptation of "Mean Girls," they were not shy with feedback on the film's pink miniskirts and mesh bustiers.
On social media, some said the costumes looked cheap, as if they had come from fast-fashion retailers. Others said they did not lean heavily enough on the Y2K style of the original "Mean Girls," released in 2004. And one online commentator said the costumes seemed like an A.I. image generator's clumsy response to the prompt: "What do trendy teenagers wear today?"
The wardrobes for the film, which was released on Jan. 12, were not created by artificial intelligence but by Tom Broecker, the costume designer for "Saturday Night Live," where he has worked for nearly 30 years. Mr. Broecker, 61, had no involvement in the original "Mean Girls." He joined the crew of the adaptation after working with Tina Fey and Lorne Michaels -- who were involved in both films -- on costumes for "S.N.L." and for "30 Rock."
Mr. Broecker said the criticism of his work had made him "super, super, super anxious" for the new film's release. His goal was to reference -- but not redo -- the wardrobes from the original movie, which were created by the costume designer Mary Jane Fort, by imagining how its high-school-age characters might dress as members of Gen Z.
He cited the "sexy Santa" costumes for a holiday talent show scene in both films as an example. In the adaptation, those outfits were influenced by Ariana Grande's music video for the song "thank u, next," he said, so he made them a little more sparkly than the plasticky red skirts in the original.
More than 600 looks were created for the adaptation by Mr. Broecker and his six-person design team. In the edited interview below, he explains how they came up with the wardrobe -- which, he said, should not be judged by trailers and teasers alone.
"You're only getting the bread crumbs," he said, "when you really want to have the whole 10-course meal."
What did you think of the costuming in the original film?
When I saw it then, I thought, This is fun, this is high school in 2004. Watching it now, I go, Oh my God, those poor girls were so sexualized. But that's 2024 eyes looking at 2004. I know they didn't feel that way at all, but you look at it now and realize that the world has changed.
Where did you look to find inspiration for how Gen Z is dressing?
We were very influenced by Instagram and TikTok, and by celebrities like Billie Eilish, Jenna Ortega and Sydney Sweeney. I have a niece who graduated from high school in Indiana last year. I looked through her closet and her Instagram. And I live near N.Y.U., so packs of students walk by my apartment all the time in light-wash, straight-leg jeans, white Nike sneakers and crop tops.
What did those references reveal about how people dress now?
The early aughts are very influential in the visual landscape of clothing right now. Sometimes I would show Tina certain things and she'd say, Oh my God, I think I wore that before.
Other things have changed. Gender fluidity is a big thing for kids. And everyone wants to be comfortable, especially after the pandemic. So I dressed the high schoolers in the movie in athleisure, like North Face, Patagonia and Champion hoodies.
Fast fashion has changed how young people shop. How much of that did you include?
Probably more than we should have. Two brands we used were Cider and Princess Polly. I stayed away from Shein, but I did find a piece or two secondhand.
I kept saying that we have to get into the mind of a high-school student, and that's how they shop. The directors got rid of a mall scene that was in the original because kids don't go to the mall anymore.
How did you differentiate costumes for the Plastics -- the three popular girls -- from those for the students they reign over?
Everyone in the high school has big bags and sneakers, except for the Plastics, who have little purses and heels. They are different than the people who are weighed down by their books and grounded to the floor with their shoes.
Did you spend more of your budget on clothes for the Plastics?
Basically the Plastics got all the money. For Regina George (Reneé Rapp), we did Isabel Marant, streetwear like Off-White and a lot of vintage stuff. Tom-Ford-era 1990s Gucci was the inspiration for her homecoming dress.
Why do you think people have reacted so strongly to the costumes in the adaptation?
I didn't realize the nostalgia for the original. It's hard to have something stand on its own when something exists that people love. But this is not that, and 2024 is not 2004. We have changed how we feel about a lot of things. As the tagline says, this isn't your mom's "Mean Girls."
Photograph For the new "Mean Girls," the costume designer Tom Broecker dressed the Plastics -- top from left, Bebe Wood, Reneé Rapp and Avantika -- in a mix of high-end labels and fast fashion. Above, the girls wore plastic red skirts for a talent show in 2004, but Mr. Broecker, influenced by an Ariana Grande video, added sparkles, above right. At right are the Plastics in 2004. The scene was cut from the adaptation, Mr. Broecker said, because "kids don't go to the mall anymore." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOJO WHILDEN/PARAMOUNT PICTURES; PARAMOUNT PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page ST3.

Subject: Fast fashion; Costumes; Motion pictures; Generation Z; Plastics; Secondary schools; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Fast fashion Social networks

People: Grande, Ariana

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/13/style/mean-girls-costume-design.html

Title: 'Mean Girls' Designer Has Heard the Complaints:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 14, 2024

column: Styles Q. And A.

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2913829494

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mean-girls-designer-has-heard-complaints/docview/2913829494/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Looks That Really Caught Our Eye: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looks-that-really-caught-our-eye/docview/2912925184/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This year's revamped Golden Globe Awards brought several changes to the program. But it was business as usual on the red carpet, with hundreds of celebrities seemingly relishing the chance to give us something to ogle after last year's strikes stopped many from posing for cameras at award shows and events.
There were ball gowns. There were sequins. There was lots of red -- crimson dresses, candy apple heels, oxblood tuxedos -- with dashes of "Barbie" pink and the color purple.
Aside from maybe Jason Sudeikis, who wore a crew-neck sweater that Styles reporter Jessica Testa said induced "flashbacks to him wearing a hoodie during the awards show-by-Zoom days," almost everyone looked elegant. The 20 people on this list, however, managed to stand out just a little more than others.
Margot Robbie: Most Forever Barbie!
The actress, who wore outfits inspired by the doll's clothes for much of the "Barbie" press tour, continued that streak with a hot-pink Armani Privé gown and a tulle boa that resembled a loofah. The look was inspired by the Superstar Barbie toy.
Jeremy Allen White: Most Freshly Covered Up!
The actor, a star of "The Bear," wore a wide-lapel Calvin Klein suit over a sheer shirt. No items from his recent, nearly naked underwear campaign for Calvin Klein were included, as far as we know.
Da'Vine Joy Randolph: Most Birth of Venus!
The "The Holdovers" actress evoked a modern-day goddess in a maroon Rodarte gown with a sequined shell-style bra that channeled Botticelli's painting.
Hunter Schafer: Most Wispy!
As the actress, who attended the ceremony as a presenter, walked the carpet, her gauzy Prada gown billowed behind her. The look was equal parts eerie and captivating.
Charles Melton: Most Throwback Glamour!
The "May December" actor went with classic formal wear -- specifically, a sharp, double-breasted Armani suit in navy blue, which he accessorized with a watch that had a like-colored face.
Ali Wong: Most 20-20 Vision!
The "Beef" star's white Dior gown had an elegant braided shoulder and it draped beautifully. But her signature eyewear was what made the look sing.
Issa Rae: Most Oscar!
A glittering, floor-length Pamella Roland gown made the actress, a star of "Barbie" and "American Fiction," look a little like the statuette from the Academy Awards. Her glowing complexion enhanced the likeness.
Gillian Anderson: Most Anatomical!
The actress nodded to her role on "Sex Education" in a strapless Gabriela Hearst ball gown featuring dozens of subtly embroidered vulvas (she called them vaginas).
Colman Domingo: Most Embellished!
Two statement brooches added some sparkle to the slim Louis Vuitton suit worn by the actor, a star of "The Color Purple" and "Rustin." A pearl earring dangling from one ear upped the ante.
Florence Pugh: Most Peek-a-Boo!
The actress, a presenter at the ceremony and a star of "Oppenheimer," continued her streak of wearing sheer fabrics with a gauzy Valentino gown that showed some skin beneath its floral appliqués.
Cillian Murphy: Most Lydia Tár!
It looked as if the "Oppenheimer" star had stepped off the set of a different movie ("Maestro") when he arrived on the carpet in a black standing-collar suit and white pleated shirt.
Ayo Edebiri: Most Cherry Lip Balm!
The "The Bear" actress's strapless Prada tube dress might have been the freshest red number of the night. Helping the look pop were a sheer train and a sleek bob hairstyle.
Celine Song: Most Sewn Up!
Sticking through the waistband of the "Past Lives" director's Loewe skirt was a two-foot silver needle. The look, like her film, was understated and had the potential to draw tears.
Barry Keoghan: Most Checkered!
A pearl necklace and belt chain spiced up the "Saltburn" actor's Louis Vuitton jacket and pants -- and helped hide the fact that their prints didn't exactly match.
Billie Eilish: Most Gen Z!
The singer looked thrift-store chic in a boxy Willy Chavarria blazer, a khaki skirt and Mary Janes with socks a similar color to her bangs. She accessorized the outfit by tying a black ribbon from a birthday gift around her neck.
Oprah: Most Literal!
Was her purple Louis Vuitton gown about as surprising as florals for spring? Yes. (Oprah is an executive producer of "The Color Purple.") Did she look regal in the off-the-shoulder, sequined dress? Also yes.
Timothée Chalamet: Most Rock Star!
The actor traded "Wonka" purple for a sparkly black Celine Homme blazer that dazzled with each flash of a camera. His somewhat-buttoned shirt was a departure for someone who often opts not to wear one on the red carpet.
Rosamund Pike: Most Addams Family!
During a preshow interview with Variety, the "Saltburn" actress described her look -- a black tea-length Dior dress with a dramatic, lace veil covering her face -- as having a "weird funeral vibe." In the interview, the actress said that she had a skiing accident this winter and chose to wear the facial covering because she was concerned her injuries would not heal before the awards.
Taylor Swift: Most Mermaid!
Though the singer's "Eras Tour" film was nominated for a Golden Globe, her Gucci gown covered in sparkling chartreuse sequins seemed to be screaming "Reputation" about as loudly as possible.
Ryan Gosling: Most Ken!
She's everything, he's just ... an actor wearing Gucci.
Stella Bugbee, Vanessa Friedman, Callie Holtermann, Madison Malone Kircher, Anthony Rotunno and Jessica Testa contributed reporting.
Stella Bugbee, Vanessa Friedman, Callie Holtermann, Madison Malone Kircher, Anthony Rotunno and Jessica Testa contributed reporting.
Photograph The veil worn by the "Saltburn" actress Rosamund Pike attracted lots of attention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) (D1); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SINNA NASSERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES; MICHAEL TRAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D1, D2.

Subject: Motion pictures; Actors

People: Pike, Rosamund

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/08/style/golden-globes-fashion.html

Title: Looks That Really Caught Our Eye:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 11, 2024

column: Most Styles-Ish

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2912925184

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looks-that-really-caught-our-eye/docview/2912925184/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

It's the Shining Shape of Things Already Here: [Style Desk]

Author: Liu, Ming

Publication info: Liu, Ming. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shining-shape-things-already-here/docview/2912925167/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Designers have been playing with six-side patterns or gemstones cut into hexagonal shapes.
The jewelers' love affair with Art Deco shapes shows no signs of slowing. And the latest form to steal the limelight? The hexagon.
The six-side geometric shape has recently been appearing in jewels through either patterns fashioned in precious metal or stones cut into hexagons.
Natalie Wansbrough-Jones, a fashion stylist in London who has worked with Elle and Grazia magazines, called the hexagon an unusual shape that lends itself to "really artistic and quite architectural" designs. The shape, she said, has been notably embraced by jewelers who have "quite a creative brain."
Jewels featuring hexagons are playful in style, she said, and "offer another layer in the uniqueness of the jewelry that's being produced, which totally inspires me."
This summer, the shape was front and center in the fine jewelry collection at Gucci: Its signature horsebit (celebrating its 70th anniversary) was intertwined with geometric shapes, including the hexagon, on yellow gold rings, necklaces and single- and double-row bracelets.
Hexagonal stones cropped up at Eugenie Niarchos's brand, Venyx, which often features angular, geometric jewelry designs. A pair of Hex earrings ( $ 8,660), for example, showcased two emeralds totaling 6.18 carats that were ringed in pavé diamonds and topped with a gold star set with an emerald bead. A yellow gold choker also played with the theme by using a 7.9-carat hexagon-shape emerald framed by a double band of pavé diamonds, and set on a gold chain ( $ 20,350).
And the London jeweler Hirsh recently sold a Keystone Tourmaline ring in platinum, set with a 3.84-carat sea-blue indicolite tourmaline (price on application). To emphasize the stone's hexagonal shape, each of its six sides were accented with tiny triangular orange garnets.
For more than a decade, the hexagon has been the cornerstone of Chaumet's Bee My Love collection; a natural pairing, given that a honeycomb is a mass of hexagonal cells. In 2021, the house extended the connection by creating its own proprietary hexagonal cut, Taille Impératrice (in English, Empress Cut).
"We thought: 'Let's go back to the origin, the core of what makes Chaumet a jeweler in general,"' Jean-Marc Mansvelt, Chaumet's chief executive, said, "which is the metal and stones, particularly the diamond." The Taille Impératrice has 88 facets, producing more light and reflections compared with other diamonds (a round brilliant-cut diamond, for example, has 57).
The Taille Impératrice cut now appears throughout the Bee My Love collection, punctuating the likes of a bold gold cuff of interlocking hexagons or topping bee-themed pins and mismatched earrings.
The cut is also present in the house's high jewelry creations, including Le Jardin de Chaumet, the collection presented this past summer. The collection's Magnolia set juxtaposed Taille Impératrice-cut diamonds, ranging from 1.05 to 3.15 carats, with diamond shapes such as baguette, square and marquise, all complemented by brushed gold flourishes.
Taille Impératrice, Mr. Mansvelt said, was a reflection of Chaumet's ability to innovate while also offering "additional value for clients in terms of 'wow."'
In addition to the hexagon's symmetry, some jewelers are drawn to its believed spiritual qualities.
Krishna Choudhary is a 10th-generation jeweler and founder of the contemporary Indian house Santi. In Indian culture, he wrote in an email, the hexagon is a symbol of sacred geometry, found in temples and used for spiritual practices.
"The shape signifies the union of feminine and masculine energies," he wrote. Mr. Choudhary recently celebrated the shape in a ring that was set with an antique hexagonal emerald surrounded by six hexagonal diamonds, all presented on a diamond pavé platinum band (price on application).
The goldsmith Sabine Roemer, who was born in Germany and now works in London, said she was drawn to the hexagon as a "symbol of unity and balance." It appears in her new high jewelry Bee You disc earrings (price on application). She set 100 round brilliant-cut peridots into a web of interlocking green titanium openwork hexagons, topping the design with two emerald-cut citrines that total 20 carats.
The stones were round, but "I like the architectural conversation with the hexagons," Ms. Roemer said. "I like the contrast."
For the citrines, she used a rub-over setting -- the stone is held in a metal collar, rather than a nest of prongs -- to create a strong, encased look. "The very square, structured corners again play with the hexagons," she said. "But then I softened the whole thing with the round disc."
The British jeweler Graff also has played with architectural looks. Its Laurence Graff Signature diamond pendants line (from $ 6,600) uses round brilliant-cut diamonds in hexagonal settings, adding sparkle to the jewels.
This year, Lily Gabriella, a London jeweler, introduced Hex, a collection dedicated to hexagons that reflects the designer's Deco-inspired aesthetic. Pendants of cabochon stones, for example, rest on hexagon shapes (from $ 4,600) and stud earrings of round brilliant-cut stones have hexagon settings painted in black enamel (from $ 15,740).
The round stones are intended to create optical illusions and play with volume and negative space, said Ms. Gabriella, who studied fine art at Brandeis University in Massachusetts. She has always been drawn to architecture and sculpture, she added, especially the work of the Icelandic Danish artist Olafur Eliasson. "He's really clever in the way that his sculptures interact and play with light and shadow," she said. "I've always been fascinated by the sculptural aesthetic in terms of trying to carve out light and shadow, and play with that space."
Also, her hoop earrings (from $ 4,600) pair hexagons with round stones, while a yellow gold bracelet ( $ 10,280) with a line of hexagon cutouts is accented in black enamel.
Ms. Wansbrough-Jones, the London fashion stylist, described the piece as "very beautiful, symmetrical and pleasing," but noted that a male colleague who saw the bracelet likened it to a masculine animal's tail -- which just emphasizes just how broad the hexagon's appeal can be.
Photograph Clockwise from above: a rose gold cuff with diamonds from Chaumet's Bee My Love collection; a hexagonal emerald ring from Santi; Lily Gabriella, a London jeweler, introduced a collection last year that is dedicated to hexagons. This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Design; Architecture; Gold; Diamonds

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Architecture

Company / organization: Name: Chaumet; NAICS: 334519, 339910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/04/fashio n/jewelry-hexagon-chaumet-paris.html

Title: It's the Shining Shape of Things Already Here:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 11, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2912925167

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shining-shape-things-already-here/docview/2912925167/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At the Globes, the Good, the Bad, the Cringey: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Goodman, Stephanie

Publication info: Goodman, Stephanie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-globes-good-bad-cringey/docview/2911686728/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Lily Gladstone made history, Jo Koy did not. And dressing on a theme proved a hit. These were just some of the highs and lows.
The Golden Globes had a lot to prove Sunday night. It was the award show's return to a primo broadcast time slot after a series of scandals over finances and lack of diversity upended what used to be known as the biggest party of the year in Hollywood. Now privately owned with a greatly expanded pool of voters, the Globes were making a bid for relevance. Did that bid succeed? Well, it helped that this was the first major televised ceremony since the writers' and actors' strikes brought Hollywood to a halt, and stars and studios looking to goose their Oscar chances turned out after some skipped last year's event. Then again, this wasn't the liveliest show. Here are the highs and lows as we saw them.
Most Historic Win: Lily Gladstone
In a momentous triumph, Lily Gladstone became the first Indigenous person to win a Golden Globe for best actress, for her turn in "Killers of the Flower Moon" as an Osage woman whose family members are killed in a plot to take their fortune. Gladstone, whose background is Blackfeet and Nez Perce, was only the second Native actress to receive recognition from the Globes: Irene Bedard was nominated in 1995 for "Lakota Woman: Siege at Wounded Knee," a television movie.
After receiving a standing ovation, an overcome Gladstone spoke a few lines in the Blackfeet language, "the beautiful community nation that raised me, that encouraged me to keep going, keep doing this," she explained in English.
"I'm so grateful that I can speak even a little bit of my language," she added later, "because in this business, Native actors used to speak their lines in English, and then the sound mixers would run them backwards to accomplish Native languages on camera." She dedicated the award to "every little rez kid" who had a dream. -- Esther Zuckerman
Least Suspenseful Rivalry: 'Oppenheimer' vs. 'Barbie'
In the end, the great "Barbenheimer" face-off was a complete fizzle. "Oppenheimer," with eight nominations, won five trophies -- best drama, director, actor, supporting actor and score. After sitting on the sidelines for most of the night, "Barbie," the ceremony's most-nominated film, with nine nods, finally got in the game with a win in the rather meaningless category of best blockbuster ("cinematic and box office achievement"). "Barbie" got a second prize in the form of best song, which was kind of a no-brainer because the film's tunes filled three of the category's six slots. Time to rev up that Oscar campaign, Babs! -- Brooks Barnes
Best Looks: Stars Dressing on a Theme
Just in case anyone forgot about the "Barbie" effect of last year, which turned entire crowds pink, Margot Robbie managed to out-"Barbie" her own red carpets past in a sequined slither of hot pink Armani paired with a bristling pink tulle boa, all of it inspired by the 1977 Superstar Barbie.
As it turned out, however, that was just the beginning of the on-theme dressing. Oprah Winfrey wore Louis Vuitton in the color purple, in honor of -- you guessed it -- "The Color Purple," for which she served as a producer. And Taylor Swift wore glimmering Gucci in the sort of bright leafy shade that evoked nothing so much as the color of money and made it impossible to forget just how much green her Eras Tour has generated.
Together they made for a more interesting trend than the traditional strapless frocks that also proliferated. (The best of those being Elle Fanning's vintage Balmain and Rosamund Pike's not-quite-vintage 2019 Dior: If you're going to go with the classics, might as well go back to the source.) And the theme dressing added a new dimension to the brand-marketing machine that the red carpet has become. -- Vanessa Friedman
Flattest Monologue: Jo Koy
I had high hopes for Jo Koy, the 52-year-old Filipino American comedian who is only the second Asian American to host the Golden Globes. (Sandra Oh was the first, in 2019.) But Koy's opening monologue felt like a highlight reel of mortifying moments. From a weird joke about being attracted to a plastic Barbie to one about the "Killers of the Flower Moon" filmmakers stealing the plot, Koy's jokes met an icy reception from the audience. To be fair, he had barely any time to prepare. "I got the gig 10 days ago!" he said from the stage. "You want a perfect monologue?" It's a shame, but Koy's jokes will probably end up being best remembered for the memes they inspire on social media. -- Christopher Kuo
Flattest Joke: Koy Riffing on Taylor Swift
Why you gotta be so mean? The host's jokes did not really improve as the night went on.
"We came on after a football doubleheader," Koy said as the ceremony returned from its first commercial break. "The big difference between the Golden Globes and the N.F.L.? On the Golden Globes, we have fewer camera shots of Taylor Swift."
Koy seemed to swallow the word "camera" as he said it. And when the actual camera, on cue, panned to Swift, she appeared deeply unamused, her lips pursed, her eyes stern as she sipped a drink.
It is true that Swift has been shown many, many times on N.F.L. telecasts since she began showing up at Kansas City Chiefs games to cheer on the team's tight end, Travis Kelce.
But Koy's joke, at the expense of perhaps the most famous person in a room full of famous people, fell flat again. So flat, that he muttered, "Sorry about that." -- Matt Stevens
Best Speech With a Twist: Steven Yeun
The most entertaining speeches take us on a ride. That's what Steven Yeun did when he won for actor in a limited series for his role in "Beef." He started out with a serious and vulnerable tone, saying, "The story I usually tell of myself to myself is one of isolation and, like, separateness." But then he threw in a twist, saying that once he climbed onto the stage he realized that -- wait, that inner monologue "feels a lot like the plot to 'Frozen."' It was unexpected yet heartfelt, a joke for his daughter. -- Brooks Barnes
Best Speeches With a Dose of Honesty: Kieran Culkin and Robert Downey Jr.
Awards show speeches tend to be mash-ups of gushing adjectives meant to communicate maximum gratitude -- "amazings" and "incredibles" aplenty -- but a couple of actors were refreshingly measured in their delight. This isn't the Oscars, after all. Winning for his role as Roman Roy in "Succession," Kieran Culkin told the audience, simply, "This is a nice moment for me." And when Robert Downey Jr. stepped up to the microphone, he deflected applause for his supporting performance in "Oppenheimer" by addressing the prescription medication powering his nonchalance onstage: "Yeah, yeah, I took a beta blocker," he said, "so this is going to be a breeze." -- Julia Jacobs
Biggest Upset: Best Screenplay for 'Anatomy of a Fall'
The previous group of Golden Globe voters could always be counted on to give us a few unpredictable wins, and though they weren't always welcome swerves, they at least lent the night a charge of anything-could-happen frisson. That feeling was hard to come by this year, thanks to a series of respectable, safe choices, though the unexpected triumph of "Anatomy of a Fall" in the screenplay category certainly woke up the ballroom: In years past, Globe voters almost certainly would have chosen a starrier pick like "Barbie" or "Oppenheimer," and it was fun to get a worthy upset. -- Kyle Buchanan
Worst Award: The Cinematic and Box Office Achievement Globe
The Globes added a new box-office trophy this year, with nominees required to have earned at least $ 150 million (or, as the guidelines put it, "commensurate digital streaming viewership"). The whole thing is a little silly, especially in a year in which two huge hits -- "Barbie" and "Oppenheimer" -- were also popular with critics and nominated for many awards. Is it an effort to revive the academy's widely derided attempt to add a best popular film category to the Oscars? Or just to get more A-listers in the room (including, yes, Taylor Swift)?
Entertainment plaudits are basically made up of vibes and campaigning, meant to create heated discussions. But if there's anything in movies that's impossible to argue with, it's box office receipts and clicks. So what was the undisputed biggest box office achievement in 2023? "Barbie." Who won this new Globe? "Barbie." Who else could it have been? -- Alissa Wilkinson
Best Writers' Revenge: A Script 'Written' by Studio Executives
Perhaps as an ode to the recently settled Hollywood writers' strike, the presenters Daniel Kaluuya, Hailee Steinfeld and Shameik Moore announced they would introduce the best screenplay nominees with words written by studio executives -- although given the dry, stilted language, the script may well have been generated by ChatGPT.
"I am relatable," Steinfeld intoned. "I am enjoy the Golden Globes."
"I do agree," Moore said.
"As do I," Kaluuya agreed.
At least the "executives" generated a few laughs.
-- Jonathan Abrams
Least Satisfying Reunion: 'Suits'
What is a "Suits" reunion without Meghan Markle? The law-firm drama that has found unprecedented success on Netflix more than a decade after its debut deserved a moment in the sun just for the sheer number of viewers it accrued in recent months. And I'm sure the actors Gabriel Macht, Patrick J. Adams, Gina Torres and Sarah Rafferty were thrilled to present the award for best drama series. But where was Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, who was a star of the show and played a key character? She doesn't live very far from the Beverly Hilton, where the ceremony was held. "Suits" fans had to be thrilled that their beloved cast was alive and well, but without Meghan, can you really call it a reunion? -- Nicole Sperling
Most Improved Angle: Shots of the Audience Behind the Presenters
Keeping things interesting visually during an awards show can be a challenging task. Talking heads. Nominees. Award. Speech. Rinse. Repeat. But on Sunday night, the producers mixed it up by pulling a simple reversal and shooting some of the presenters with the audience in the background. It changed the feel while allowing us at home to peek behind some of the presenters during the more boring banter to check out the celebrities behind them. Who's paying attention? Who can't be bothered? One drawback was that the lighting didn't always favor the presenters at these varying angles. But overall, it felt fun and gave a little jolt to the proceedings. -- Mekado Murphy
Most Surprising (Apparent) Spoiler: 'Anatomy of a Fall'
"Anatomy of a Fall" took home two Globes for its taut dissection of the frictions in a marriage, exposed when a wife is put on trial and accused of pushing her husband to his death at their home in the French Alps. Under the scrutiny of a court and the couple's preteen son, Sandra (Sandra Hüller), defends herself as viewers are left to plumb the evidence for signs of whether her husband's death resulted from an assault, an accidental fall or his own leaping.
But as she accepted the award for best screenplay for the film, written with her husband, Arthur Harari, Justine Triet maybe revealed what her script did not. Describing their thinking when they completed the script, she said: "OK we are having a lot of fun but it's radical and dark, nobody's going to see this movie. It's too long, they talk all the time, there's no score -- a couple fighting, suicide, a dog vomiting. I mean, come on." The (accidental?) disclosure of the manner of death seemed out of step for one of the creators of a film so meticulously built to leave audiences guessing. -- Elena Bergeron
Best and Worst Reinvention: The Globes Themselves
With the Globes trying to claw their way to semi-legitimacy, this was a perfectly reasonable attempt, but it all felt perfunctory.
High: Intro segments tend toward the cringey at every awards show, and there were plenty of awkward moments here, too, but there were some bright spots: Keri Russell and Ray Romano's fun repartee, Andra Day and Jon Batiste's giggly banter and especially Kristen Wiig and Will Ferrell's goofy dance bit. Ferrell's signature outburst -- "The Golden Globes have not changed!" -- was probably the biggest laugh of the night.
Low: Kind of everything? The whole ceremony had sort of a blah energy. The speeches were all fine, but none was especially wild. The biggest shock came when the broadcast included what sounded like glasses clattering to the floor. -- Margaret Lyons
Photograph Clockwise, from left: Lily Gladstone, of "Killers of the Flower Moon"; the "Oppenheimer" team: Robert Downey Jr., left, Matt Damon, Emma Thomas, Ludwig Goransson, Florence Pugh, Christopher Nolan and Cillian Murphy; and Steven Yeun and Ali Wong, of "Beef." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONJA FLEMMING/CBS; ROBYN BECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (C1); Top left, the director Greta Gerwig, left, and Margot Robbie, of "Barbie." Above, from top: the host, Jo Koy; Daniel Kaluuya, left, Hailee Steinfeld and Shameik Moore; America Ferrera and Kevin Costner, who were among the presenters shot from different angles. Bottom, from far left: Kieran Culkin accepting his "Succession" trophy, and Robert Downey Jr. accepting his best supporting actor award. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONJA FLEMMING/CBS) (C4-C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4, C5.

Subject: Professional football; Nominations; Cameras; Golden Globe awards; Ticket sales; Rites & ceremonies; Jokes; Motion pictures; Strikes; Speeches; Filipino Americans; Screenplays; Actors; Voters

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes

People: Yeun, Steven; Swift, Taylor; Gladstone, Lily; Culkin, Kieran

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/08/movies/golden-globes-best-worst.html

Title: At the Globes, the Good, the Bad, the Cringey:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 9, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2911686728

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-globes-good-bad-cringey/docview/2911686728/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Travis Kelce Is Everywhere. By Design.: [Style Desk]

Author: Schonbrun, Zach

Publication info: Schonbrun, Zach. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/travis-kelce-is-everywhere-design/docview/2910905137/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the only recent year in which Travis Kelce and the Kansas City Chiefs weren't playing in the Super Bowl, the N.F.L. star was driving around Los Angeles in early February with his business managers, André and Aaron Eanes, marveling at billboards featuring Dwayne Johnson, the actor and entertainer better known as the Rock.
"Man, I don't think I'll ever be as famous as the Rock," Mr. Kelce said.
His co-managers looked at each other. "We're like, Yes, you can," André Eanes said.
The twin brothers had known since Mr. Kelce was at the University of Cincinnati that the 6-foot-5 athletic star with the Marvel-character physique, blue eyes and affable charm had crossover potential.
But let's be honest. Nobody imagined this.
This was a year even the Rock might envy. Mr. Kelce, a tight end, won the Super Bowl (his second) in February. In March, he hosted "Saturday Night Live." He's starred in seven national television commercials. The podcast he co-hosts with his brother, Jason, is among the most popular on Spotify. He launched a clothing line with his team.
And he's dating the world's most famous pop singer. Perhaps you've heard.
Mr. Kelce's sudden conquering of the zeitgeist -- being put on the map, if you will -- has taken even die-hard football fans by surprise. The reality is that most of his ascent has been years in the making -- the result of a carefully manicured business plan developed by the 34-year-old Eanes brothers that blossomed at precisely the right moment.
The Chiefs have spent the last few years as the most unstoppable force in football and, along the way, Mr. Kelce's other team has grown to include a creative strategist, a community outreach coordinator, a Los Angeles-based publicist, a personal chef and a trainer. He has four football agents, led by Mike Simon at VMG. In the spring, he also became a client of Creative Artists Agency to feed his budding acting itch.
The Eanes brothers coordinate it all, managing the surging flow of incoming traffic for a piece of Kelce Inc. Film scripts have been shared among the team. Game shows are a consideration. Maybe fewer commercials.
"People say to me, 'Man, it's been a crazy year,"' Aaron Eanes said. "When I say, 'Actually, it's not that crazy,' people look at me funny. It's because it's easy when you have a plan. We're executing that plan."
Before you run to YouTube and TikTok to research conspiracy theories, no, the plan did not include Taylor Swift.
Mr. Kelce's managers have a window of time between the ending of the Super Bowl in February and the beginning of training camp in July in which their plan for the Kelce brand must unfold. Once the season starts, Mr. Kelce manifests what he wants on his own.
But while Mr. Kelce's shift into a more mainstream form of celebrity was planned out before he met Ms. Swift, there is no question that the doubling of his prospective audience -- from mostly men between the ages of 18 and 49 to a far larger group bolstered heavily by Ms. Swift's female fans of all ages -- has changed the calculus for where the plan goes from here.
"The awareness of Travis is much larger and with an even broader audience," said Richard Lovett, C.A.A.'s co-chairman. "It's accelerated that which was probably inevitable in terms of his level of awareness and appeal."
André Eanes, who manages Mr. Kelce's portfolio of 28 investments, first met his client through Mr. Kelce's college roommate, D.J. Woods, a childhood friend of Mr. Eanes, who grew up near Cleveland. They became close when Mr. Eanes started an event management business while still in college that booked venues and hosted D.J.s around Cincinnati. Mr. Eanes became Mr. Kelce's go-to guy for a V.I.P. pass.
"He was always the life of the party," Mr. Eanes said of Mr. Kelce. "Everyone wanted to go hang out with Travis."
At the same time, Aaron Eanes was studying sport management and entrepreneurship at Bowling Green State University in northern Ohio. He wanted to help athletes grow their careers. But he had no interest in becoming a traditional sports agent.
"Agents are contract advisers," Mr. Eanes said. "I thought instead about a music model and building a business where there's coordination with all their external providers."
Mr. Eanes hadn't even graduated when he began pitching college football players about the services of a manager in addition to a traditional agent. It was an unusual proposition at the time for most players, whose focus primarily was on getting that first professional contract. But Mr. Kelce seemed to grasp the bigger picture that his friends were charting. He became the second client of A&A Management, the company that the Eanes brothers still run.
"It was unusual," said Mr. Simon, Mr. Kelce's agent. "I think his thought process at the time was, 'Let's all do this together, and we'll figure it out as we go."'
Mr. Kelce's first glint of mainstream publicity came in a 2015 feature in Complex magazine, in which he stood on a pool table wearing a burgundy velour Versace jumpsuit and Gucci sunglasses. A short time later, Aaron Eanes got a call from a producer from E! about a reality dating show. "I was like, Absolutely not!" Mr. Eanes said.
The brothers eventually relented, thinking that a TV show might open other doors. After "Catching Kelce," which ran for eight episodes and never did find Mr. Kelce's true love, they agreed that reality television was one and done. Instead, Mr. Kelce, a lifelong comedy fan, gave his co-managers a lofty goal to chase: He wanted to be on "S.N.L."
Aaron Eanes reached out to the show's producers during the 2020 season, but their reciprocated interest sounded lukewarm at best. That changed in October 2021 after Mr. Kelce dropped into an "S.N.L." after-party before a game in Philadelphia and went to work, chatting up (and impressing) Lorne Michaels.
The day after the Chiefs defeated the Eagles in the Super Bowl last February, Aaron Eanes's phone rang at 9 a.m. It was "S.N.L."
"I don't think he's even been to sleep yet," Mr. Eanes told the booking agent.
After walking out onto the stage at Rockefeller Center's Studio 8H on March 4, less than a month after the Super Bowl win, Mr. Kelce choked up during the show's opening monologue. He had fulfilled a childhood dream and he had brought his family along for the ride: his brother, Jason, the Eagles' center; and his parents, Ed and Donna, who the Eanes brothers help manage free of charge.
After "S.N.L.," the Eanes brothers began interviewing Hollywood agencies that had stronger connections in the entertainment industry.
"We're just two guys that live in Ohio," Aaron Eanes joked.
Mr. Lovett and Tom Young, C.A.A.'s co-head of sports media, both said that Mr. Kelce had an easygoing charisma and a coachable nature that made producers want to work with him. "Decision makers and those folks that are meant to be visionary about who's the next potential movie star, those folks had already tapped into Travis even coming out of 'Saturday Night Live,"' Mr. Lovett said. "And probably before."
But nothing was being rushed, Aaron Eanes said. That's not Mr. Kelce's style. And Mr. Eanes had already been laying the groundwork for his client's path to the A-list. Throughout 2022, Mr. Eanes had targeted endorsement deals with companies that were not traditional N.F.L. partners -- like promoting vaccines for Pfizer, for instance, or a new debit card from Experian. The purpose was to build out Mr. Kelce's résumé as a stand-alone pitchman, rather than yet another interchangeable player in a commercial for one of the N.F.L.'s partners, capitalizing on a foundation built by the league.
Danielle Salzedo, a veteran brand strategist who joined Mr. Kelce's management team after 14 years at Viacom, said she has adopted marketing lessons from working with music artists like Harry Connick Jr., who was constantly willing to reinvent himself to reach new audiences.
"That ability to continue to evolve what your image is and stay current but still remain elevated, from someone who is already a global star," Ms. Salzedo said, "is something that I think Travis has the ability to do."
Mr. Kelce's inner circle insists that his time as a viral celebrity hasn't changed him. His personal chef, Kumar Ferguson, has been pals with Mr. Kelce since they played recreational basketball together in the fourth grade. He drives home-cooked meals (typically wild rice, chicken and veggies) to the Chiefs' practice facility every day so that he and Mr. Kelce can have lunch together.
Despite the growing pile of distractions, Mr. Kelce's longtime trainer, Alex Skacel, said the star tight end's dedication to football has never been stronger.
Mr. Skacel likes to share the story of a visit to Paris Fashion Week a few years ago, when he and Mr. Kelce took a late-night jog around the city because Mr. Kelce was antsy for a workout after an entire day of sitting by the runway. "It's midnight, and we're doing sprints over the bridges over the river," Mr. Skacel said. "No matter where he is, he finds time to get done whatever he needs to get done."
While 2023 was a nearly perfect year for Mr. Kelce, Aaron Eanes said the increased attention has his team considering a potential area of concern: oversaturation. Is there too much of Mr. Kelce on television and in the news, and could fans grow numb to the sight of him? The plan for next year revolves around one word: curation. Fewer deals. Quality over quantity. Authenticity first.
After a midweek visit to New York to talk at a sports business conference, the Eanes brothers were rushing to catch flights to Ohio for a few days with family before heading back to Kansas City, where the Chiefs were playing the Buffalo Bills in a clash of two top teams.
The game was decided in the final moments by a penalty that reversed what would likely have become a signature play in Mr. Kelce's career.
Trailing by three, Mr. Kelce caught a pass in the open field. Then, as he was about to be tackled, he showed off the arm he had used as a high school quarterback, throwing a perfect pass back to an open teammate who raced in for what appeared to be a game-winning score. The only problem was that the teammate had lined up incorrectly before the play, which erased the touchdown.
The Chiefs went on to lose the game, but once again, Mr. Kelce had found a way to be in the middle of everything.
"We positioned Travis to be world famous," André Eanes said. "We didn't know how it would happen, or when it would happen, or what would help push that further along. But it's always been the thought in the back of our minds."
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Photograph Travis Kelce hosting "Saturday Night Live," above, and shortly after Kansas City won the Super Bowl in 2023, bottom left. Dating Taylor Swift, left, has put Mr. Kelce in front of a new demographic. His business managers, the twins André Eanes, far left, and Aaron Eanes, below, coordinate the surging demand for a piece of Kelce Inc. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILL HEATH/NBC, VIA GETTY IMAGES; DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES; MEGA/GC IMAGES; AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: College football; Entrepreneurs; Sports agents; Business plans; Celebrities

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Sports agents Business plans

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; Ohio

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/02/style/travis-kelce-managers-agent.html

Title: Travis Kelce Is Everywhere. By Design.:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 7, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Intere st Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2910905137

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/travis-kelce-is-everywhere-design/docview/2910905137/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Travis Kelce Is Everywhere. By Design.

Author: Schonbrun, Zach

Publication info: Schonbrun, Zach. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/travis-kelce-is-everywhere-design/docview/2910836443/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In the only recent year in which Travis Kelce and the Kansas City Chiefs weren’t playing in the Super Bowl, the NFL star was driving around Los Angeles in early February with his business managers, André and Aaron Eanes, marveling at billboards featuring Dwayne Johnson, the actor and entertainer better known as The Rock.
“Man, I don’t think I’ll ever be as famous as the Rock,” Kelce said.
His co-managers looked at each other. “We’re like, ‘Yes, you can,’” André Eanes said.
The twin brothers had known since Kelce was at the University of Cincinnati that the 6-foot-5 athletic star with the Marvel-character physique, blue eyes and affable charm had crossover potential.
But let’s be honest. Nobody imagined this .
This was a year even The Rock might envy. Kelce, a tight end, won the Super Bowl (his second) in February. In March, he hosted “Saturday Night Live.” He’s starred in seven national television commercials. The podcast he co-hosts with his brother, Jason, is among the most popular on Spotify. He launched a clothing line with his team.
And he’s dating the world’s most famous pop singer. Perhaps you’ve heard.
Kelce’s sudden conquering of the zeitgeist — being put on the map, if you will — has taken even die-hard football fans by surprise. The reality is that most of his ascent has been years in the making — the result of a carefully manicured business plan developed by the 34-year-old Eanes brothers that blossomed at precisely the right moment.
The Chiefs have spent the past few years as the most unstoppable force in football and, along the way, Kelce’s other team has grown to include a creative strategist, a community outreach coordinator, a Los Angeles-based publicist, a personal chef and a trainer. He has four football agents, led by Mike Simon at VMG. In the spring, he also became a client of Creative Artists Agency to feed his budding acting itch.
The Eanes brothers coordinate it all, managing the surging flow of incoming traffic for a piece of Kelce Inc. Film scripts have been shared among the team. Game shows are a consideration. Maybe a few less commercials.
“People say to me, ‘Man, it’s been a crazy year,’” Aaron Eanes said. “When I say, ‘Actually, it’s not that crazy,’ people look at me funny. It’s because it’s easy when you have a plan. We’re executing that plan.”
Before you run to YouTube and TikTok to research conspiracy theories, no, the plan did not include Taylor Swift.
Kelce’s managers have a window of time between the ending of the Super Bowl in February and the beginning of training camp in July in which their plan for the Kelce brand must unfold. Once the season starts, Kelce manifests what he wants on his own.
But while Kelce’s shift into a more mainstream form of celebrity was planned out before he met Swift, there is no question that the doubling of his prospective audience — from mostly men between the ages of 18 and 49 to a far larger group bolstered heavily by Swift’s female fans of all ages — has changed the calculus for where the plan goes from here.
“The awareness of Travis is much larger and with an even broader audience,” said Richard Lovett, CAA’s co-chair. “It’s accelerated that which was probably inevitable in terms of his level of awareness and appeal.”
André Eanes, who manages Kelce’s portfolio of 28 investments, first met his client through Kelce’s college roommate, D.J. Woods, a childhood friend of Eanes, who grew up near Cleveland. They became close when Eanes started an event management business while still in college that booked venues and hosted DJs around Cincinnati. Eanes became Kelce’s go-to guy for a VIP pass.
“He was always the life of the party,” André Eanes said of Kelce. “Everyone wanted to go hang out with Travis.”
At the same time, Aaron Eanes was studying sport management and entrepreneurship at Bowling Green State University in northern Ohio. He wanted to help athletes grow their careers. But he had no interest in becoming a traditional sports agent.
“Agents are contract advisers,” Aaron Eanes said. “I thought instead about a music model and building a business where there’s coordination with all their external providers.”
Aaron Eanes hadn’t even graduated when he began pitching college football players about the services of a manager in addition to a traditional agent. It was an unusual proposition at the time for most players, whose focus primarily was on getting that first professional contract. But Kelce seemed to grasp the bigger picture that his friends were charting. He became the second client of A&A Management, the company that the Eanes brothers still run.
“It was unusual,” said Simon, Kelce’s agent. “I think his thought process at the time was, ‘Let’s all do this together, and we’ll figure it out as we go.’”
Kelce’s first glint of mainstream publicity came in a 2015 feature in Complex magazine, in which he stood on a pool table wearing a burgundy velour Versace jumpsuit and Gucci sunglasses. A short time later, Aaron Eanes got a call from a producer from E! about a reality dating show. “I was like, Absolutely not!” Aaron Eanes said.
The brothers eventually relented, thinking that a TV show might open other doors. After “Catching Kelce,” which ran for eight episodes and never did find Kelce’s true love, they agreed that reality television was one and done. Instead, Kelce, a lifelong comedy fan, gave his co-managers a lofty goal to chase: He wanted to be on “SNL.”
Aaron Eanes reached out to the show’s producers during the 2020 season, but their reciprocated interest sounded lukewarm at best. That changed in October 2021 after Kelce dropped into an “SNL” after-party before a game in Philadelphia and went to work, chatting up (and impressing) Lorne Michaels.
The day after the Chiefs defeated the Philadelphia Eagles in the Super Bowl in February, Aaron Eanes’ phone rang at 9 a.m. It was “SNL.”
“I don’t think he’s even been to sleep yet,” Aaron Eanes told the booking agent.
After walking out onto the stage at Rockefeller Center’s Studio 8H on March 4, less than a month after the Super Bowl win, Kelce choked up during the show’s opening monologue. He had fulfilled a childhood dream and he had brought his family along for the ride: his brother, Jason, the Eagles’ center; and his parents, Ed and Donna, who the Eanes brothers help manage free of charge.
After “SNL,” the Eanes brothers began interviewing Hollywood agencies that had stronger connections in the entertainment industry.
“We’re just two guys that live in Ohio,” Aaron Eanes joked.
Lovett and Tom Young, CAA’s co-head of sports media, both said that Kelce had an easygoing charisma and a coachable nature that made producers want to work with him. “Decision-makers and those folks that are meant to be visionary about who’s the next potential movie star, those folks had already tapped into Travis even coming out of ‘Saturday Night Live,’” Lovett said. “And probably before.”
But nothing was being rushed, Aaron Eanes said. That’s not Kelce’s style. And Aaron Eanes had already been laying the groundwork for his client’s path to the A-list. Throughout 2022, Aaron Eanes had targeted endorsement deals with companies that were not traditional NFL partners — like promoting vaccines for Pfizer, for instance, or a new debit card from Experian. The purpose was to build out Kelce’s resume as a stand-alone pitchman, rather than yet another interchangeable player in a commercial for one of the NFL’s partners, capitalizing on a foundation built by the league.
Danielle Salzedo, a veteran brand strategist who joined Kelce’s management team after 14 years at Viacom, said she has adopted marketing lessons from working with music artists like Harry Connick Jr., who was constantly willing to reinvent himself to reach new audiences.
“That ability to continue to evolve what your image is and stay current but still remain elevated, from someone who is already a global star,” Salzedo said, “is something that I think Travis has the ability to do.”
Kelce’s inner circle insists that his time as a viral celebrity hasn’t changed him. His personal chef, Kumar Ferguson, has been pals with Kelce since they played recreational basketball together in the fourth grade. He drives home-cooked meals (typically wild rice, chicken and veggies) to the Chiefs’ practice facility every day so that he and Kelce can have lunch together.
Despite the growing pile of distractions, Kelce’s longtime trainer, Alex Skacel, said the star tight end’s dedication to football has never been stronger.
Skacel likes to share the story of a visit to Paris Fashion Week a few years ago, when he and Kelce took a late-night jog around the city because Kelce was antsy for a workout after an entire day of sitting by the runway. “It’s midnight, and we’re doing sprints over the bridges over the river,” Skacel said. “No matter where he is, he finds time to get done whatever he needs to get done.”
While 2023 was a nearly perfect year for Kelce, Aaron Eanes said the increased attention has his team considering a potential area of concern: oversaturation. Is there too much of Kelce on television and in the news, and could fans grow numb to the sight of him? The plan for next year revolves around one word: curation. Fewer deals. Quality over quantity. Authenticity first.
After a midweek visit to New York to talk at a sports business conference, the Eanes brothers were rushing to catch flights to Ohio for a few days with family before heading back to Kansas City, where the Chiefs were playing the Buffalo Bills in a clash of two top teams.
The game was decided in the final moments by a penalty that reversed what would likely have become a signature play in Kelce’s career.
Trailing by 3, Kelce caught a pass in the open field. Then, as he was about to be tackled, he showed off the arm he had used as a high school quarterback, throwing a perfect pass back to an open teammate who raced in for what appeared to be a game-winning score. The only problem was that the teammate had lined up incorrectly before the play, which erased the touchdown.
The Chiefs went on to lose the game, but once again, Kelce had found a way to be in the middle of everything.
“We positioned Travis to be world famous,” André Eanes said. “We didn’t know how it would happen, or when it would happen, or what would help push that further along. But it’s always been the thought in the back of our minds.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Entrepreneurs; Sports agents; Business plans; Celebrities

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Sports agents Business plans

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; Ohio

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

Identifier / keyword: E! Entertainment Television; Marvel Entertainment; Pfizer Inc; Cleveland (Ohio); Exercise; University Of Cincinnati; Ohio; Versace, Gianni, Spa; Pop And Rock Music; Michaels, Lorne; Celebrities; Rockefeller Center (Manhattan, Ny); Johnson, Dwayne (1972 ); Super Bowl; Sports; Reality Television; Football (College); Careers And Professions; Bowling Green State University; Conspiracy Theories; Music; Advertising And Marketing; Los Angeles (Calif); Kelce, Travis; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Connick, Harry Jr; Bowling Green (Ohio); Shutdowns (Institutional); Spotify; YoutubeCom; Buffalo Bills; Kansas; Agents (Business); Dating And Relationships; Tiktok (Bytedance); Creative Artists Agency; Gucci; Cincinnati (Ohio); Swift, Taylor; Philadelphia (Pa); Viacom Inc; Television; Football; Colleges And Universities; Dreams; Kansas City Chiefs; Philadelphia Eagles; Paris Fashion Week; Fans (Persons); Age, Chronological

Title: Travis Kelce Is Everywhere. By Design.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 6, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-06T17:33:55Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2910836443

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/travis-kelce-is-everywhere-design/docview/2910836443/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Year Fashion Went Backward: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-fashion-went-backward/docview/2905279060/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Skinny models. White male designers. Shoulder pads. This year, fashion failed on many of its promises.
It started with all the talk about how we were going back. Back to the office. Back to normalcy after two years of pandemic upheavals. Back to -- maybe -- actual dressing. Remember?
Turns out, when it came to fashion, one part of that was exactly right. In 2023, we went back. And not just to big 1980s shoulders and bigger Edwardian sleeves or even Y2K trends: low-rise cargos, cropped tops, Uggs.
But back to skinny models. Back to mostly white men getting the top jobs at big fashion brands. Back to the flying circus of destination show spectacles. Back to fast fashion. Backward.
With great influence (influence being the currency of fashion as it intersects with culture) comes great responsibility, to paraphrase both Spider-Man and Winston Churchill. Yet for an industry that is supposed to be about the future, it was an awfully retrograde year.
After a messy period of confusion about what happens next -- maybe the metaverse, with all that implies about identity and self-expression and clothes; maybe a change in the system so we could right-season and get sales under control; definitely a future dedicated to inclusivity, diversity and cultural sensitivity -- fashion is, in many ways, in the same place it was in 2019.
The first sign was on the runways. Despite real change when it comes to racial inclusivity, size inclusivity was practically nonexistent. According to Vogue Business, "95.6 percent of looks" in the fall 2023 shows, which took place in February and March, were between US size 0 and 4. Only 0.6 percent were plus size (defined as size 14 and up; the remaining 3.8 percent were midsize, or size 6 to 12).
In the most recent spring 2024 shows, held in September and October, 0.9 percent of the models were plus size, while 3.9 percent were midsize. That doesn't even begin to take into account the narrow representations of age and physical ability.
Backstage at many shows, chaos and public nudity, decried during the immediate aftermath of the #MeToo movement, returned. The Fashion Worker's Act, a bill introduced in New York to address the rights of models and other contract workers, fell victim to legislative gridlock and was tabled in the State Assembly until next year.
By summer, it was clear that despite the pandemic-induced hiccup in the show system, there would not be fewer shows; there would be more, involving more travel, more hoopla and more products. Not only did brands that had resisted coming back, like Ralph Lauren, stage a return to the official schedules, but mega-brands like Dior and Vuitton added new interim shows to their circuit -- Dior holding its prefall show in Mumbai and Vuitton, men's prefall in Hong Kong.
And those were just two of the destination blowouts that took place. Others included Carolina Herrera in Rio, Gucci in Seoul, MaxMara in Stockholm, Boss in Miami.
"We didn't really learn anything from Covid-19," Pierpaolo Piccioli of Valentino told me in late 2022, and it was clear he was right.
Come October, a flurry of new designer appointments took place, and though the arrival of Pharrell Williams at Louis Vuitton men's wear in February had been an unmistakable jolt to the status quo, it turned out to be the exception, not the rule. Among the nine designers named to big jobs in 2023, there was one woman (Chemena Kamali at Chloé), one person of color (Mr. Williams) and seven white men. Many of those men didn't just have similar resumes, they had similar facial hair.
Finally, at her spring show and at COP28, Stella McCartney showcased new materials -- biodegradable sequins! Biofluff plant-based-fur! -- but evidence suggests that promising as they are, such pilots are not scalable enough to make any real difference. Mylo, the mushroom leather Ms. McCartney championed in 2021 and 2022, was discontinued by its parent company, Bolt Threads, and Renewcell, the largest textile-to-textile recycling plant in the world, is pausing production, both for lack of demand. Despite incremental advances from LVMH and the members of the Fashion Pact like Kering and Prada, the industry has yet to grapple with its most elemental issue: its sheer amount of stuff.
Indeed, speaking of stuff, Shein, the biggest and fastest of the ultrafast fashion giants, recently valued at $ 66 billion, reportedly filed to go public, suggesting that no one thinks the consumption model is going away any time soon. Nor are the problems with supply chains. Transparentem, a nonprofit that focuses on environmental and human rights abuses, recently released a new investigation highlighting wage slavery in factories in Mauritius that produce goods for, among other Western brands, Diesel, Armani and PVH, which owns Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger. While some of those brands have been responsive to the findings and worked to remediate the situation, others have remained silent.
"We had a phase of awareness," said Achim Berg, a senior partner at McKinsey & Company and one of the leaders of McKinsey's global Apparel, Fashion & Luxury Group. "Then a phase of commitment." But we have not, he said, made enough of a leap to action. Instead, fashion, nervous in the face of an uncertain political and economic environment, is crossing its fingers, hoping technology comes to the rescue, and defaulting to the familiar while it waits.
Still, looking ahead to 2024, there are some glimmers of disruption. The recent return of full-on red carpet eccentricity after the SAG-AFTRA strike has been a reminder of the joy, and complexities, of dressing up, suggesting this could be an awards season to remember. The chaos of New York Fashion Week, full of upstart brands by nontraditional designers defining success on their own terms and with their own fan base, is exciting.
The big brands that made the most waves -- Loewe, Bottega Veneta and Miu Miu -- did so because of their inherent idiosyncrasy, the willingness of the designers Jonathan Anderson, Matthieu Blazy and Miuccia Prada to pave their own peculiar paths. To, for example, change the silhouette by redefining high-rise pants (Loewe) or transforming leather pants into denim (Blazy) or getting rid of pants entirely (Miu Miu). Phoebe Philo came back under her own name and in her own way: online, without any formal marketing fanfare, at the most luxurious of price points, practically demanding her clothes be viewed as long-term investments.
Maybe it will work. Maybe it won't. But at least she's trying something new.
Photograph Altuzarra at the Whitney Museum of American Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1); Pharrell Williams at Louis Vuitton in Hong Kong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE SIU/REUTERS); At Gucci in Seoul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOO-HYEON KIM/REUTERS); At Dior in Mumbai, India. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INDRANIL MUKHERJEE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); Loewe (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WHITE/GETTY IMAGES); Miu Miu (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIEN DE ROSA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); A mushroom-leather handbag at Stella McCartney, 2021. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIANNEY LE CAER/INVISION); Maison Margiela (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Jodie Turner-Smith wearing Christopher John Rogers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES); At Carolina Herrera in Rio de Janeiro. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO LACERDA/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (ST4)This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST4

Subject: White people; Photographs; Designers; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Designers

Location: China; New York; United States--US; India; Hong Kong China; Mumbai India

People: McCartney, Stella

Company / organization: Name: Miu Miu; NAICS: 315210, 315990, 316210; Name: Carolina Herrera; NAICS: 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/19/style/fashion-2023-trends.html

Title: The Year Fashion Went Backward:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 24, 2023

column: Uttoned

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2905279060

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-fashion-went-backward/docview/2905279060/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The News Quiz: [Metropolitan Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/2904858812/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: 1. Colorado's Supreme Court ruled, in a 4-to-3 decision, that former President Donald J. Trump had engaged in insurrection and therefore could not appear on the state's ballot. Which constitutional amendment was it interpreting?
11th Amendment
14th Amendment
15th Amendment
16th Amendment
27th Amendment
2. What is the name of the militia in Yemen that has been attacking ships sailing through the Red Sea since Oct. 7?
Asaib Ahl al-Haq
Badr Organization
Hamas
Hezbollah
The Houthis
3. Pope Francis said that priests could do which of the following for same-sex couples?
Perform marriage sacraments for them
Bless their relationships
Bless their homes
Bless the couples
Bless their wedding ceremonies
4. Gov. Greg Abbott, Republican of Texas, signed a law that sets up a clash with the federal government over immigration policy. What does the law do?
Designates Austin as a sanctuary city
Grants Cuban migrants temporary protected status
Lets the police arrest migrants who enter Texas from Mexico
Mobilizes the Texas Army National Guard to invade Mexico
Withdraws Texas from the union
5. The European Union reached a major deal this week on how to collectively handle which issue?
Reaching Mars
Overhauling its migration system
Funding collective defense
Reducing inflation
Building affordable housing
6. What are the people in the photo above doing?
Singing Christmas carols to cows at a dairy farm in New York
Praying for a good harvest at a gathering of Methodist farmers in Iowa
Reading banned books to cows in protest of a new Wisconsin law
Watching a performance of Edward Albee's "The Zoo Story" at the St. Louis Zoo
Participating in the annual "Santa-summoning chant" in Santa Claus, Ind.
7. U.S. Steel, an icon of 20th-century American industry, announced this week that it would be sold to which foreign steel manufacturer?
Baowu Group (China)
ArcelorMittal (Luxembourg)
Nippon Steel (Japan)
POSCO (South Korea)
Tata Steel (India)
8. A volcano in Iceland erupted this week. What was the name of the volcano?
Reykjavik
Grindavik
Svartsengi
Reykjanes
Fagradalsfjall
9. Rudolph W. Giuliani filed for bankruptcy protection on Dec. 21 after a jury ordered him to pay $ 148 million for defaming whom?
Employees of Four Seasons Total Landscaping
Former Georgia election workers
Michelle Obama
President Biden
The chief executive of Dominion Voting Systems
10. George Santos, the expelled former congressman, sat for an interview that went viral this week in which he was asked whether he preferred the House of Representatives or the house of Gucci. Who was the interviewer?
The cable news host Rachel Maddow
The "Hot Ones" host Sean Evans
The comedian Ziwe Fumudoh
Bruno, one of Sacha Baron Cohen's characters
The YouTuber Jake Paul
The News Quiz is published on Fridays in the Morning newsletter. To sign up, visit nytimes.com/themorning. Solutions: 1. B; 2. E; 3. D; 4. C; 5. B; 6. A; 7. C; 8. E; 9. B; 10. C.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRA GENOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: State laws

Location: Mexico; Texas; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/20/pageoneplus/23a2_news-quiz.html

Title: The News Quiz:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 23, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2904858812

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/2904858812/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why She Still Loves Waikiki's 'Blue Hawaii': [Travel Desk]

Author: Hood, Ann

Publication info: Hood, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-she-still-loves-waikikis-blue-hawaii/docview/2904858781/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It's fashionable to look down on the famous Honolulu beach as touristy and inauthentic. But you can still find the tropical paradise that inspired dreams of the islands, if you know where to look.
Since my first trip to Waikiki Beach in 1977, I have traveled all around the Hawaiian Islands. And I've loved each one. But I love Waikiki, too.
Not the hordes of tourists, of course, or the high-end shopping malls that have taken over Kalākaua Avenue and earned it the nickname, Vegas on the Beach. What I love are the remnants of a different Waikiki, a beautiful, tropical paradise that inspired songs and movies and dreams and romance. When I come here, with some time and patience, I can still find that Waikiki.
Lately, it's become fashionable to dismiss Waikiki as a playland for tourists and not the "real" Hawaii. When I posted pictures of a gorgeous sunset and the waves crashing on Waikiki Beach on social media last March, I got vehement comments like: "Get out of there and see the real Hawaii!"
And: "Here's where you should be ..."
And: "Ugh. Waikiki."
But Waikiki is no less the real Hawaii than anywhere else, said T. Ilihia Gionson, the public affairs officer for the Hawaii Tourism Authority. "From the beginning, Waikiki has been a very special place that captured the hearts and souls of many," he said. "The land is the land, and it will always have that certain energy and life force that comes through, no matter what we put upon it."
According to Mr. Gionson, in prepandemic 2019, Hawaii had 10.4 million annual arrivals, its highest number ever. Numbers this year are running at about 92 percent of that number, or close to 10 million arrivals. The strain of so many visitors on local neighborhoods led the Hawaiian Tourism Authority to ask themselves how they can do tourism better and reinvest economic resources into communities and resources. With its emphasis on local culture, traditions and products, the Mālama Hawaii campaign, which kicked off in 2021, invites travelers to learn how Hawaiians care for their home.
Waikiki, once home to royalty, was an agricultural center, rich with taro fields and rice paddies, and eventually became a seaside neighborhood for local families. The Māhele, a land distribution plan that changed the islands' communal system of land ownership to a private one in 1848, brought western land barons and the beginning of tourism with hotels built for wealthy tourists.
With the opening of the luxurious Moana Surfrider in 1901, Waikiki's reputation as a popular tourist destination began. Promoters advertised many of the things that are still synonymous with Waikiki today -- lū'aus, lush leis, and the beach boys who taught water sports. Wealthy businessmen watched crowds emerge from boats onto Waikiki Beach after a six-and-a-half day trip from San Francisco and saw an opportunity to develop these wetlands into a tourist mecca. The Waikiki Reclamation Project drained and dredged Ala Wai Canal and its surrounding fish ponds, taro fields, rice farms and banana and coconut groves, then filled them with material upon which to build hundreds of acres of new hotels and upscale homes.
Old Waikiki was gone -- again -- and a new Waikiki of luxury hotels and tiki bars emerged. Movies like "Blue Hawaii," starring Elvis Presley, and singers like Don Ho brought Hawaii into our living rooms. This was the Waikiki I arrived in on a United Airlines Friend Ship, one of 3 million tourists who visited in 1977. As my friends and I disembarked from our flight, where stewardesses in flowered uniforms served us mai tais and macadamia-crusted chicken, saronged women placed plumeria leis around our necks and welcomed us with that magical word, "Aloha."
Unable to afford a beachfront hotel, we stayed at the Miramar, four blocks from the ocean. But we didn't care -- we were in Waikiki. We bought tatami mats and Hawaiian Tropic suntan lotion at the ABC store and happily walked across the street, through the lobby of a hotel and onto the beach. There was Diamond Head, and surfers and the Pacific Ocean, everything we had hoped for.
When we weren't sunbathing, we roamed around the International Marketplace, the outdoor market that Don the Beachcomber, the father of tiki culture, opened in 1956, the year we were born. Around the 60-foot-tall banyan tree in the center were kiosks that sold all things tropical and Hawaiian. Jane paid $ 10 for the chance to find an oyster with a pearl inside. I bought my mother a handwoven grass skirt. Why I thought a middle-aged accountant in West Warwick, R.I., would want a grass skirt, I can't say. Except that I was bringing Hawaii, a place she would never visit, 5,000 miles to her.
At night, we ate teriyaki sirloins at Chuck's Cellar and drank overly sweet mai tais at beach bars. In the morning, we ordered all-you-can-eat pancakes at Wailana Coffee House, tucked our tatami mats under our arms, and started all over again.
The Miramar Hotel, Chuck's Cellar, and the Wailana Coffee House are all gone now. The International Marketplace was completely razed in 2013 and reopened three years later with only the name and the banyan tree remaining. Today, instead of the dangling vines and footbridges, the International Marketplace is a three-story mall with a Burberry shop and a Christian Louboutin.
In many ways, what happened to the International Marketplace represents what has happened to create this newest Waikiki. With an influx of international tourists in the 1990s, high-end retail shops arrived along with more hotels. The well-known San Francisco department store Gump's, which opened at the corner of Kalākaua Avenue and Lewers Street in 1929, became a Louis Vuitton store in 1992. Thirteen years later, buildings were bulldozed or repurposed to create Luxury Row with stores like Chanel and Gucci.
When I asked the Island-born chef and restaurateur, Ed Kenney, where I could find old Waikiki, his first response was that unfortunately, that Waikiki has been all but lost. Then he gave me recommendations of where to find it.
One way to get there is to walk through a different mall, past the Wolfgang Puck steakhouse and the word Aloha surrounded by lights, until you see a flash of pink through the trees. Follow that pink through a wrought-iron gate into an oasis of grass and trees and the Royal Hawaiian Hotel, called the Pink Palace of the Pacific when it opened in 1927. Immediately, the crowds and noise disappear. Minutes after you check in, you will be under a pink-and-white striped beach umbrella, your toes in white sand. Wander over to the bar for a mai tai, commissioned as a special cocktail for this very hotel and created by Victor Bergeron in 1953, and it is like being back in time.
At sunset, I like to go to the restaurant House Without a Key to sip a pretty pink Table 97 cocktail while the Kapalama Trio sings softly beneath a 136-year-old kiawe tree and the sky turns pink and lavender. The cocktail is named for Ernest Hemingway and Martha Gellhorn's favorite table when they honeymooned here in 1940, and the restaurant is named for the 1925 novel, "The House Without a Key," by Earl Derr Biggers, which was the first of a mystery series featuring a fictional Honolulu detective named Charlie Chan. An original copy is on display at the entrance.
It is also worth it to brave the throngs and take a walk down Kalākaua Avenue, past some of the remaining old significant Waikiki architecture. Although most of the iconic buildings were torn down, a surprising number of hidden gems with tropical-motif latticework railings and building decorations remain. Start at the Waikiki Galleria Tower at 2222 Kalākaua Avenue, built in 1966 by the architect George Wimberly, then continue around the corner for a 10-minute walk to see the breadfruit design on the wrought iron railings at the Kaiulani Court Apartments at 209 Kaiulani Avenue.
Nearby apartment buildings along Lau'ula Street have railings with surfboards, banana leaves and sails, as well as lava rock walls and cantilevered lanais. Even the new International Marketplace is worth a visit to see that old banyan tree and a replica of Don the Beachcomber's office with old photographs, menus and advertisements in a treehouse above it.
Skip the lines at the Cheesecake Factory and take a short Uber ride to the Highway Inn, open since 1947, for some lau lau and kalua pig with cabbage and a 25-cent side of raw onion with salt. Or try the Side Street Inn for fried rice, garlic fried chicken and sizzling short ribs. Or have an iconic plate lunch of loco moco, rice and macaroni salad at the Rainbow Drive-in, open since 1961 and affectionately called Rainbows by locals.
Except for the happy hour at the piano bar at the Moana Surfrider, where they make strong real cocktails like martinis and Manhattans, skip the Blue Hawaiis and sugary mai tais at hotel bars. Instead, walk down Saratoga Road, past the tattoo parlor and Eggs and Things (serving eggs with Portuguese sausage or pork chops since 1974) to Arnold's Beach Bar, a tiny bar that is actually not on the beach, but is full of regulars, like a Waikiki Cheers. If you're lucky, Brie Brundige will be behind the bar making Arnold's famous mai tais ( $ 10 here versus $ 21 or more in hotels) and will share the recipe.
One morning, I woke up early, got a kona coffee and a li hing mango morning bun from the Honolulu Café, and sat on Waikiki Beach. It was quiet and, except for some surfers in the water and a mother and daughter building sand castles, I was alone. The sky was pale pink. The palm trees swayed in the breeze. Diamond Head watched me sitting there. I was smiling, happy in Waikiki. It is still there, if you look hard enough.
Ann Hood's most recent book is "Fly Girl," a memoir about her years as a TWA flight attendant.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Clockwise, from above: Waikiki Beach; a huge banyan tree, once part of the old International Marketplace mall; Elvis Presley and Joan Blackman in "Blue Hawaii" (1961); Brook Lee performing at the House Without a Key; Rainbow Drive-In is a blast from the past. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCO GARCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; EVERETT COLLECTION) This article appeared in print on page C9.

Subject: Architecture; Tourism; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Hotels & motels

Location: Hawaii; United States--US; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: Moana Surfrider; NAICS: 721110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/13/travel/waikiki-beach-hawaii-tourism.html

Title: Why She Still Loves Waikiki's 'Blue Hawaii':   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 23, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2904858781

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-she-still-loves-waikikis-blue-hawaii/docview/2904858781/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Vandals Mar Grand Palace In Seoul With Graffiti: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Jin Yu Young

Publication info: Jin Yu Young. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vandals-mar-grand-palace-seoul-with-graffiti/docview/2903757118/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For two consecutive nights, the Gyeongbokgung palace was spray-painted, in a country where such brazen vandalism is rare.
The Gyeongbokgung palace, a national treasure in the heart of South Korea's capital that draws millions of visitors each year, was vandalized with graffiti twice over the weekend.
Parts of the 14th-century palace were spray-painted in red and blue on Saturday and Sunday nights, according to the police. The police said at least two people acted on Saturday, and at least one person did on Sunday. They have yet to identify the suspects from Saturday. One person surrendered to the police on Monday morning. They have not determined a motive.
While graffiti is more common in alleyways and tunnels in South Korea, heritage sites are a rare target in the country and have special protections under the law, with violators facing stiff prison sentences and fines.
The palace is one of the five grand ones built during the Joseon Dynasty and boasts clay folklore statues, the king's throne hall and expansive roofs made from fired clay tiles in red, blue and green. It's nestled at the foot of a mountain, Bugaksan, among the modern office buildings of central Seoul. It was used by Gucci this year to host a fashion show. It does not host government offices.
The authorities were first alerted to vandalism at the palace at about 2 a.m. on Saturday. The words "free movie" in Korean and several website addresses were written with blue and red spray paint.
Two areas were targeted: the entrance to Yeongchu Gate, the palace's western gate, and the side gate of the National Palace Museum. The total damage spread across 44 meters, or about 144 feet.
Government workers began cleaning off the graffiti the next day. Reports of a second spray-painting came in to police at about 10:30 p.m. on Sunday, this time in red and spanning three meters, or about 10 feet, of the western gate. The words included the name of an artist and album in English. The police declined to say what those were.
Gyeongbokgung, located in the heart of downtown and Seoul's old capital district, was built in 1395 as the main palace of the Joseon Dynasty, the last dynastic era of Korea before the Korean empire and the first Japanese annexation. A large part of the palace is being restored.
The police said they believe the suspects from each night were different and that the second incident might have been a copycat.
At least 20 government workers are removing the graffiti, which officials say will take about a week. The damaged areas are covered with a tarp and the surrounding areas are closed off by fences.
The palace is protected under the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, and anyone charged with vandalizing it could face up to five years in prison and a fine of up to $ 39,000.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Graffiti; Vandalism; Government employees; Cultural heritage

Location: South Korea

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/18/world/asia/seoul-palace-graffiti.html

Title: Vandals Mar Grand Palace In Seoul With Graffiti:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 20, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2903757118

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vandals-mar-grand-palace-seoul-with-graffiti/docview/2903757118/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gift Shopping With Chatbots: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lu, Yiwen

Publication info: Lu, Yiwen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gift-shopping-with-chatbots/docview/2902823790/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With Shopify, Mercari and other retailers rolling out chatbots to help buyers, this holiday shopping season is the first to be powered by A.I.
To help with my holiday shopping this year, I recently turned to a new personal assistant online. "I'm looking for a Christmas present for my mother, who spends long hours working," I typed. "Is there something she can use in her office every day?"
"Of course!" came the instant reply. "Does your mother have any specific preferences or needs for her office? For example, does she need organization tools, desk accessories, or something to help her relax during breaks?"
So began my conversation with Shop A.I., a new chatbot from Shopify, an e-commerce marketplace. Over 10 minutes, Shop A.I. and I engaged in a question-and-answer session. I told the chatbot my budget and more about my mother, such as her need to alleviate back pain. Shop A.I. also asked me about my mother's preferred design and color for an office chair.
More people may eventually replicate this kind of shopping experience. A year after ChatGPT debuted, retailers around the world have started rolling out chatbots that are powered by generative artificial intelligence. That makes this holiday season the first when a slew of A.I. chatbots can help shoppers brainstorm and find presents for their friends and loved ones.
In addition to Shopify, chatbots have come out over the past 12 months from Instacart, the delivery company; Mercari, a resale platform; Carrefour, a retailer; and Kering, which owns Gucci and Balenciaga. Walmart, Mastercard and Signet Jewelers are also testing chatbots, which may become publicly available as soon as next year.
"In a way, it's recreating an in-store environment, but online," said Carl Rivera, a vice president at Shopify who oversees its Shop app, which hosts Shop A.I. He said the chatbot broke down people's questions into key terms and searched relevant products from Shopify's millions of sellers. It then recommends products based on reviews and a shopper's purchase history.
Retailers have long used chatbots, but previous versions lacked conversational power and typically answered just a few preset questions, such as the status of an order. The newest chatbots, by contrast, can process prompts and generate tailored answers, both of which create a more "personalized and authentic interaction," said Jen Jones, the chief marketing officer of the platform Commercetools.
Whether shoppers want this technology remains a question. "Consumers like simplicity, so they don't necessarily want to have five different generative A.I. tools that they would use for different purposes," said Olivier Toubia, a marketing professor at Columbia Business School.
Nicola Conway, a lawyer in London, tried Kering's luxury personal shopper, Madeline, in August to search for a pink bridesmaid dress for a spring wedding. Madeline was "intuitive and novel," she said, but it gave only one recommendation, an Alexander McQueen corset dress. Ms. Conway did not end up buying it.
Kering did not respond to requests for comment.
Maggie Weber, a shopping influencer who uses the social media handle @refashionedhippie, said she tried Mercari's chatbot, Merchat A.I., in May. She asked the chatbot to show her baseball cards, but she was instead offered baseballs -- and then hats, bats and jerseys.
"Merchat is still in its infancy," Ms. Weber, 34, said. She added that she worried that if she gave the chatbot too much information, it would start directing personalized ads to her.
A Mercari spokeswoman said Merchat used chat history only to recommend products and did not use personally identifiable information. She added that the search bar could be faster for customers who want a specific item, while the chatbot helped those who want "inspiration for gifts."
Such inspiration was exactly what I needed this season as I had only vague ideas for what to buy my 53-year-old mother and my 17-year-old cousin, Jenny.
So I tried Shop A.I. After telling the chatbot about my mother's back pain and asking what I could buy to help her relax, Shop A.I. offered to find an ergonomic chair and asked my budget. When I said $ 100, it came back with a few pages of product results.
"Can you help me to narrow it down?" I typed. Shop A.I. then asked about my preferred color for a chair. I said black.
Shop A.I. returned more than 300 results, including a $ 159 camp chair from ROAM Adventure, a $ 179.99 reclining massage office chair from homrest and a $ 269.99 CosyGaming executive chair.
"These don't seem to be under $ 100," I wrote, annoyed.
"As a new chatbot, I'm still learning and sometimes the search results may not be accurate," Shop A.I. replied. "Let me try again and find some black ergonomic chairs within your budget."
Then, it added, "It seems that I'm having trouble finding black ergonomic chairs within your budget at the moment."
I ended up typing "black ergonomic chair" into the search bar myself and set a $ 100 price range. A $ 66.81 Victory Furniture gaming chair and a $ 47.96 massage office chair popped up, though they were too big and heavy to be gifts.
Eventually, I asked Shop A.I. for alternative ideas and received five options, including seat cushions and standing desk converters.
I chose the standing desk converter and gave Shop A.I. my $ 100 budget. This time, the chatbot showed options within my price range, including a $ 99 Risedesk standing desk converter. But most of the products did not have reviews, which I rely on while shopping online. I didn't buy anything.
Shop A.I. was not great at finding a gift for my cousin, either. I wanted to buy Jenny some college dorm decorations featuring her favorite anime series, Violet Evergarden, which follows a character named Violet as she recovers from an unidentified war.
But Shop A.I. appeared to decide that anything the color violet was connected to my query. It showed me wall art of purple mountains and posters of purple BMW cars.
So I turned to Mercari's Merchat. After asking for my cousin's hobby (anime), age (17) and what she might prefer for college (dorm decorations), Merchat offered three gift ideas: wall tapestries, string lights and desk accessories in the theme of Violet Evergarden.
Merchat showed me four products under each category, all of which were under my budget of $ 50. I ended up buying an $ 18 Violet Evergarden poster scroll for Jenny. (She later told me she wished I had gotten her something quirkier.)
Emboldened by the experience, I asked Merchat to help find a present for my mother. "Would she benefit from a back support cushion, a heating pad or maybe a massage chair pad?" it asked.
"What are the pros and cons of each?" I typed.
Merchat said it couldn't provide specific pros and cons for individual items. I changed my question to: "Which one is the easiest to use?"
This time, Merchat was definitive: the back support cushion, which was portable. Merchat detailed the differences between a memory-foam cushion and a firmer one, then further grouped memory-foam cushions into three categories and displayed the top four results for each, all under $ 100.
While I didn't buy any because the styles were limited, it was a great starting point.
"Thank you," I wrote.
"You're welcome!" Merchat replied. "Happy shopping and have a wonderful time with your family!"
Photograph Shop A.I. returned more than 300 results for a request to find black ergonomic chairs, though the options were not under the shopper's budget of $ 100.; A look at a conversation with Merchat A.I., a chatbot that helps shoppers. "Merchat is still in its infancy," said an influencer who has tried the chatbot. (B2) This article appeared in print on page B1, B2.

Subject: Gifts; Shopping; Anime; Back pain; Ergonomics; Chatbots; Chairs

Business indexing term: Subject: Gifts

Company / organization: Name: Shopify Inc; NAICS: 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/14/technology/shopping-ai-chatbots.html

Title: Gift Shopping With Chatbots:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902823790

Document URL: https ://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gift-shopping-with-chatbots/docview/2902823790/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

My Not-So-Perfect Holiday Shopping Excursion With AI Chatbots

Author: Lu, Yiwen

Publication info: Lu, Yiwen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/my-not-so-perfect-holiday-shopping-excursion-with/docview/2902776715/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — To help with my holiday shopping this year, I recently turned to a new personal assistant online. “I’m looking for a Christmas present for my mother, who spends long hours working,” I typed. “Is there something she can use in her office every day?”
“Of course!” came the instant reply. “Does your mother have any specific preferences or needs for her office? For example, does she need organization tools, desk accessories, or something to help her relax during breaks?”
So began my conversation with Shop AI, a new chatbot from Shopify, an e-commerce marketplace. Over 10 minutes, Shop AI and I engaged in a question-and-answer session. I told the chatbot my budget and more about my mother, such as her need to alleviate back pain. Shop AI also asked me about my mother’s preferred design and color for an office chair.
More people may eventually replicate this kind of shopping experience. A year after ChatGPT debuted, retailers around the world have started rolling out chatbots that are powered by generative artificial intelligence. That makes this holiday season the first when a slew of AI chatbots can help shoppers brainstorm and find presents for their friends and loved ones.
In addition to Shopify, chatbots have come out over the past 12 months from Instacart, a delivery company; Mercari, a resale platform; Carrefour, a retailer; and Kering, which owns Gucci and Balenciaga. Walmart, Mastercard and Signet Jewelers are also testing chatbots, which may become publicly available as soon as next year.
“In a way, it’s re-creating an in-store environment, but online,” said Carl Rivera, a vice president at Shopify who oversees its Shop app, which hosts Shop AI. He said the chatbot broke down people’s questions into key terms and searched relevant products from Shopify’s millions of sellers. It then recommends products based on reviews and a shopper’s purchase history.
Retailers have long used chatbots, but previous versions lacked conversational power and typically answered just a few preset questions, such as the status of an order. The newest chatbots, by contrast, can process prompts and generate tailored answers, both of which create a more “personalized and authentic interaction,” said Jen Jones, the chief marketing officer of the platform Commercetools.
Whether shoppers want this technology remains a question. “Consumers like simplicity, so they don’t necessarily want to have five different generative AI tools that they would use for different purposes,” said Olivier Toubia, a marketing professor at Columbia Business School.
Nicola Conway, a lawyer in London, tried Kering’s luxury personal shopper, Madeline, in August to search for a pink bridesmaid dress for a spring wedding. Madeline was “intuitive and novel,” she said, but it gave only one recommendation, an Alexander McQueen corset dress. Conway did not end up buying it.
Kering did not respond to requests for comment.
Maggie Weber, a shopping influencer who uses the social media handle @refashionedhippie, said she tried Mercari’s chatbot, Merchat AI, in May. She asked the chatbot to show her baseball cards, but she was instead offered baseballs — and then hats, bats and jerseys.
“Merchat is still in its infancy,” said Weber, 34. She added that she worried that if she gave the chatbot too much information, it would start directing personalized ads to her.
A Mercari spokesperson said Merchat used chat history only to recommend products and did not use personally identifiable information. She added that the search bar could be faster for customers who want a specific item, while the chatbot helped those who want “inspiration for gifts.”
Such inspiration was exactly what I needed this season, as I had only vague ideas for what to buy my 53-year-old mother and my 17-year-old cousin, Jenny.
So I tried Shop AI. After telling the chatbot about my mother’s back pain and asking what I could buy to help her relax, Shop AI offered to find an ergonomic chair and asked my budget. When I said $100, it came back with a few pages of product results.
“Can you help me to narrow it down?” I typed. Shop AI then asked about my preferred color for a chair. I said black.
Shop AI returned more than 300 results, including a $159 camp chair from ROAM Adventure, a $179.99 reclining massage office chair from homrest and a $269.99 CosyGaming executive chair.
“These don’t seem to be under $100,” I wrote, annoyed.
“As a new chatbot, I’m still learning and sometimes the search results may not be accurate,” Shop AI replied. “Let me try again and find some black ergonomic chairs within your budget.”
Then, it added, “It seems that I’m having trouble finding black ergonomic chairs within your budget at the moment.”
I ended up typing “black ergonomic chair” into the search bar myself and set a $100 price range. A $66.81 Victory Furniture gaming chair and a $47.96 massage office chair popped up, although they were too big and heavy to be gifts.
Eventually, I asked Shop AI for alternative ideas and received five options, including seat cushions and standing desk converters.
I chose the standing desk converter and gave Shop AI my $100 budget. This time, the chatbot showed options within my price range, including a $99 Risedesk standing desk converter. But most of the products did not have reviews, which I rely on while shopping online. I didn’t buy anything.
Shop AI was not great at finding a gift for my cousin, either. I wanted to buy Jenny some college dorm decorations featuring her favorite anime series, Violet Evergarden, which follows a character named Violet as she recovers from an unidentified war.
But Shop AI appeared to decide that anything the color violet was connected to my query. It showed me wall art of purple mountains and posters of purple BMW cars.
So I turned to Mercari’s Merchat. After asking for my cousin’s hobby (anime), age (17) and what she might prefer for college (dorm decorations), Merchat offered three gift ideas: wall tapestries, string lights and desk accessories in the theme of Violet Evergarden.
Merchat showed me four products under each category, all of which were under my budget of $50. I ended up buying a $18 Violet Evergarden poster scroll for Jenny. (She later told me she wished I had gotten her something quirkier.)
Emboldened by the experience, I asked Merchat to help find a present for my mother. “Would she benefit from a back support cushion, a heating pad or maybe a massage chair pad?” it asked.
“What are the pros and cons of each?” I typed.
Merchat said it couldn’t provide specific pros and cons for individual items. I changed my question to: “Which one is the easiest to use?”
This time, Merchat was definitive: the back support cushion, which was portable. Merchat detailed the differences between a memory foam cushion and a firmer one, then further grouped memory foam cushions into three categories and displayed the top four results for each, all under $100.
While I didn’t buy any because the styles were limited, it was a great starting point.
“Thank you,” I wrote.
“You’re welcome!” Merchat replied. “Happy shopping and have a wonderful time with your family!”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Shopping; Artificial intelligence; Back pain; Anime; Ergonomics; Chatbots; Chairs

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Shopify Inc; NAICS: 513210

Identifier / keyword: Signet Jewelers Ltd; Ergonomics; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Personal Finances; Openai Labs; Shopify Inc; Gucci; Walmart Stores Inc; Instacart; Christmas; Business; Mastercard Inc; Balenciaga (Fashion Label); Chairs; Carrefour Sa; Mobile Applications; Con Way Inc; Budgets And Budgeting; Back (Human Body Part); Furniture; Holidays And Special Occasions; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Gifts; Online Advertising; Shopping And Retail; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Kering Sa; E Commerce; Fashion And Apparel; Artificial Intelligence

Title: My Not-So-Perfect Holiday Shopping Excursion With AI Chatbots

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-17T22:45:35Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902776715

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/my-not-so-perfect-holiday-shopping-excursion-with/docview/2902776715/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Working to Control The Narrative Of My Finances: [Style Desk]

Author: Febos, Melissa

Publication info: Febos, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/working-control-narrative-my-finances/docview/2902616121/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This essay is part of a Modern Love project on the intersection of money and relationships.
In my mid-20s, I was close to broke. Not struggling-to-keep-the-lights-on-broke, but constantly-doing-basic-math-in-my-head-broke. I had some lingering bad debt that I'd been transferring between credit cards for years. My yearly income was under $ 20,000. In therapy (the cost of which caused additional consternation), I talked a lot about the low hum of anxiety that attended my days, the fear that my financial insecurity was evidence that I was doing something wrong.
I had a boyfriend at the time, a kind person. He wasn't the last man I would ever date, but close to it. He worked long hours as a TV editor; he wasn't rich, but had no debt and earned what seemed to me then like a king's ransom: something like a grand a week. He was the first romantic partner I'd ever lived with and the first whose income was more than triple mine. When we moved into our small one-bedroom, he suggested an equitable scale for paying our living expenses in which I contributed about a third. I don't think the word equitable was yet a part of my vocabulary, but we both knew I could never have afforded an equal share.
I was grateful for his generosity, but deeply uneasy about the arrangement. Every month, when I wrote him a check, my body coursed with a potent combination of shame and fear. Though I understood intellectually that our arrangement was fair, I still felt like a failure. I was terrified by the idea of dependency, which seemed like an ominous gateway.
I'd been employed ever since my parents, both from working class backgrounds, had secured me my first work permit at 14. I came to understand financial independence as freedom. When I'd moved out of my childhood home as a teenager, I refused much help from my parents because I knew it gave them a stake in how I lived. The years I spent in my early 20s as a sex worker had confirmed my suspicion that there was no such thing as free money.
I had been clean and sober for three years when my boyfriend and I moved in together, but even at my addicted bottom, I'd been obsessively self-sufficient. No matter how messy my life got, I always made rent. But at 26, an unpublished writer and student, I was deeply in debt for the first time. I'd later come to understand this as the ordinary predicament of most budding artists who don't come from money.
In our second year of living together, my boyfriend offered to pay off my credit card debt. My payments were barely touching the principal, he pointed out. I nodded, but felt the blood rush out of my face.
"That's really generous," I said. "But that idea makes me feel ... uncomfortable." This was an understatement. I felt like vomiting.
"You can think of it as loan, if you want," he said.
Over the years we lived together, I started cooking more. I liked to cook, and as a child with both Puerto Rican and Italian grandmothers, I had been raised to enjoy feeding people. I don't know when I started doing his laundry, but it soon became routine as well.
"It's a little weird that you're doing all of this," he said to me once. I brushed it off. "It's fine," I said. "I'm home more often than you." And in some ways, it was fine. Folding laundry was easier than writing.
It wasn't only in our home that things got weird. I covered my tattoos in front of his parents. I certainly didn't tell them I was writing a book about my years as an addict and sex worker; in fact, I told almost no one. I amassed a rich collection of cardigans. My life started to feel like a kind of cosplay. I'd never looked so conventional. And I had never asked for or accepted financial help.
In our third year together, he and I started talking about having a baby and getting married. While these prospects excited me on some level, they also filled me with trepidation. How had I gone from a dominatrix who mostly dated women to a boring teacher who lived with a man in an apartment she couldn't afford? At what point did the costume cease to be play and become my real life?
What happened was exactly the thing I should have expected: I fell in love with a woman and left him. The breakup was agony, made worse by the fact of his generosity and my inability to repay him. Out of guilt, I went to weeks of post-breakup couples' therapy with him and abandoned most of our shared belongings. After a few months, however, I threw away those cardigans and got some new tattoos. Then, I published that book about everything I'd learned to hide.
When I reflected on our relationship, I recoiled from my dismay and bafflement, and turned toward self-disgust, which felt safer. What on earth had possessed me? The patriarchy, I decided: I had stepped into that old hoary theater of heterosexuality and found myself typecast, complete with laundry and dishes and cardigans.
The story might have ended there. I stayed with that woman -- whom I still refer to as "my best ex" -- for three years. Then, I found myself in love with a different woman. Though I was less broke at this point, she was in a similarly distant tax bracket. She was prone to grand gestures and expensive gift-giving: She bought me plane tickets, massages, expensive meals, jewelry and Gucci sunglasses. I was stunned by this showering, and even more so by my acceptance of it.
"I want to take care of you," she often said. Every time she uttered those words, I felt a flash of fear. Look what had happened the last time I let someone take care of me! But behind that fear was something else. A swooning feeling. A ravenous hunger. To my own surprise, I found that I desperately wanted to be taken care of.
For a time, the narcotic effect of her grand gestures of care obscured the reality of our dynamic: It was the most unstable I'd ever known. We fought constantly. I obsessed over our relationship to the exclusion of almost everything else in my life.
And yet I once again strove to become the good wife -- completing mundane administrative tasks on her behalf, carrying her coat at public events and making myself small to avoid conflict.
When I left her, my life was in ruins. I had become estranged from friends and family. And I had again become a stranger to myself. But my eyes were also opened: I saw that the common denominator between those two relationships had not been gender or sexual orientation, nor even financial difference. It had been me.
The very quality that had made me so proud -- my need for control over my own independence, my inability to gracefully accept help -- had generated an imbalance in me. I could not accept the healthy support of one lover and ran headlong into a warped dynamic with another.
In the aftermath, I came to see the relationship with my TV editor boyfriend with more nuance. I had spent the years leading up to our relationship as a kind of career criminal, braced for judgment, violence, arrest and humiliation. I'd always held down a job, sure, but my life had been precarious and vulnerable in all the ways being an addict and sex worker make a life and a woman. I would have been embarrassed to admit it at the time, but there was relief in the sheer vanilla quality of my life with him. I didn't blame myself for craving that comfort, only for refusing to recognize it.
In some moments, it had also been tempting to reduce the story of that tumultuous relationship with the woman who wanted to take care of me to an easily digested narrative: She had been a controlling mastermind. Or perhaps we had both been temporarily possessed by a toxic chemistry. Whatever partial truths existed in those explanations, I knew it had been that same ravenous hunger for care -- produced by my staunch, lifelong refusal of it -- that had driven me back to her again and again. That there was only one person who could render me capable of a more balanced manner of loving: me.
As I've aged, the comfort of blaming someone or something else for my hardships has become rare. I try to hold myself accountable with more tenderness than recrimination. When I become a stranger to myself, the explanation is always complicated.
The intervening years have taught me better how to give and receive all kinds of resources, including money. My wife and I are pretty good at not playing out our issues in that particular area. Neither of us craves the kind of care one should only expect from a parent or a god, and we both know how to ask for help when we need it. We are just two adults, each taking responsibility for ourselves, and choosing every day to live alongside each other. It can be a lot more work, but costs us less in the end.
Melissa Febos is the author of four books, including "Girlhood," winner of the National Book Critics Circle Award in Criticism, and a professor at the University of Iowa.
Modern Love can be reached at modernlove@nytimes.com.
To find previous Modern Love essays, Tiny Love Stories and podcast episodes, visit our archive.
Want more from Modern Love? Watch the TV series; sign up for the newsletter; or listen to the podcast on iTunes, Spotify or Google Play. We also have swag at the NYT Store and two books, "Modern Love: True Stories of Love, Loss, and Redemption" and "Tiny Love Stories: True Tales of Love in 100 Words or Less."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST15.

Subject: Tattoos; Books

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/11/style/modern-love-relationships-money-control-melissa-febos.html

Title: Working to Control The Narrative Of My Finances:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 17, 2023

column: Modern Love

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902616121

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/working-control-narrative-my-finances/docview/2902616121/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

End-Times Romance: [Style Desk]

Author: Cherelus, Gina

Publication info: Cherelus, Gina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/end-times-romance/docview/2902616094/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jes Tom used to be obsessed with finding "the one" to ride out the end times with. Now, the comic is happy just talking about sex in front of strangers six nights a week.
The first thing to know about Jes Tom, a stand-up comedian who approaches the craft with a spirit of mischief, is that they "only say true things."
So when their roughly 75-minute set parcels out recollections of explaining glory holes to their mother, watching their polyamorous girlfriend get married on Twitch or discovering -- after four years on testosterone -- that they were newly into men, you would be forgiven for wondering how any one person's dating life could be so complex.
"I thought testosterone would turn me into a man, but it turned me into a twink," Tom, who is nonbinary, revealed to a cackling West Village audience last week at the Greenwich House Theater in Manhattan.
"Less Lonely," Tom's solo comedy show about their quest for love, sex and gender confirmation "at the end of the world," swerves between self-deprecation, vulnerability and shameless horniness. In the show, which opened on Monday, Tom takes their obsession with death and love and recalls the highs and lows of navigating relationships from their adolescence through their early 30s.
An earlier version of the show -- Tom has been developing and touring it for about two years now -- was "inspired by love and by being in love," they said. But what was once the final note is now, "like, a midpoint in the show."
"Since then, my life has changed over and over and over again, and the world has been changing," Tom said. "And so I've just been kind of building out and updating and trying to find what is the actual story of the show."
Tom, who is 33 and of half-Japanese and half-Chinese descent, said they knew they were queer from a young age. Growing up in San Francisco, a city with large L.G.B.T.Q. and Asian populations, they never felt underrepresented -- a disadvantage they managed to overcome.
"There's nothing worse for a queer teenager than a supportive environment," Tom joked onstage while wearing a vintage Yohji Yamamoto shirt, short black trousers from Asos and Gucci loafers. How will they ever forge an interesting personality?
On a video call, Tom went into detail about their fixation with death and an "apocalypse romance" -- their term for the theoretical person with whom you're going to ride out the end of days, a major preoccupation of the show. What began as a quest to find "the one," whether through monogamy, polyamory or other styles of dating, turned into a break from it altogether.
"From when I was 11 years old, I spent my entire life either being in a relationship or being so obsessed with the idea of getting into a relationship," they said. "Something in me changed; I stopped wanting to do that."
Now they are trying to focus on themselves, figure out who they are and what they need.
"I think it has to do with me realizing that I was kind of casting for a partner instead of necessarily dating people I had a real connection to," Tom said.
Tom moved to New York City after graduating from Smith College in 2013 and started doing comedy. In the years since, they have worked on shows like "Tuca & Bertie" and their own Instagram series, "Dear Jes," for Netflix. They were most recently a story editor on the second season of Max's "Our Flag Means Death."
For nonbinary people in comedy, navigating the industry still comes with challenges about their own identities. At the start of their performance, Tom offered a tongue-in-cheek disclaimer to the crowd, stating that although they are a trans person who likes to talk about sex, they aren't representative of all trans people, who often are stereotyped that way.
Later, Tom described being mindful of the possibility that their identity could be taken out of context, and potentially be weaponized against other trans people.
"I just wanted to outwardly acknowledge that," Tom said of their disclaimer during the show, "because I literally self-identify as a pervert."
They said that they felt a "burden of responsibility," being a marginalized person in the public eye. And while there are certainly other successful trans stand-up comics, there aren't a ton of them.
"I also just want to be like, this is not scary," Tom said. "Sex is not scary. And me talking about sex is not scary."
Through their onstage exploration of feelings of loneliness, different relationship dynamics, fears and jealousy, Tom comes to the conclusion that you don't need "the one" when the world is falling apart. You just need to find love wherever and however you can receive it.
"It's about transition. It's about change," they said.
Send your thoughts, stories and tips to thirdwheel@nytimes.com.
Photograph Left, Jes Tom. Bottom, in the audience at Tom's show, "Less Lonely." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANNA APISUKH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST6.

Subject: Love; Personal relationships; Loneliness

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/14/style/jes-tom-less-lonely.html

Title: End-Times Romance:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 17, 2023

column: Third Wheel

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902616094

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/end-times-romance/docview/2902616094/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 17, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Buy Pieces Online and Skip the Art Show: [Style Desk]

Author: Ruth La Ferla

Publication info: Ruth La Ferla. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buy-pieces-online-skip-art-show/docview/2899950919/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jewelry, puzzles and hoodies are just some items that have been sold on Platform since the online retailer of artworks and prints started offering artist-designed products.
Josh Smith, whose figurative paintings feature skeletons, devils, and their macabre ilk, is no stranger to artist collaborations. He has made painterly fleece jackets for Givenchy, and Grim Reaper T-shirts for Supreme.
Such projects don't always offer Mr. Smith, 47, opportunities to acquire new skills, but for a recent one he explored an unfamiliar medium: jewelry. With guidance from the jeweler Will Shott, Mr. Smith made a selection of silver and gold pendants, batlike creatures, winged ghosts, twigs and dragons, each bearing the stamp of his kinky imagination.
"I hope that people will realize that I can make things beside paintings," Mr. Smith said, adding that his line of jewelry "is a way to share a new facet of my creativity."
He is selling the items on Platform, a website created in 2021 by the mega-gallery David Zwirner, which at first offered artworks and fine-art prints. Last year, it began carrying artist-designed products by Raymond Pettibon, Katherine Bernhardt and others represented by Mr. Zwirner's namesake gallery.
The items, sold in limited quantities, are aimed at fans with pockets just deep enough to part with, say, $ 375 for one of Mr. Smith's twig-like silver pendants; $ 200 for a jigsaw puzzle by the painter Dana Schutz; or $ 500 for a signed vegan-leather yoga mat with drawings by the artist-slash-cartoonist Robert Crumb, or R. Crumb, as he is known. (Artists receive a percentage of their products' sales.)
Lucas Zwirner, 32, a Platform founder and an heir to his father's gallery, described the products as "idiosyncratic items at prices younger people can afford."
Works of art or high-end trinkets, as some carp, the products represent an art-world version of Tom Ford lipstick or Gucci shades -- items marketed as relatively affordable alternatives to their makers' other pieces. But mining the fame of blue-chip artists to market branded commodities is hardly unique to the Zwirners.
A holiday gift guide from the Hauser & Wirth gallery features collectibles including an "Anxious Men" T-shirt by Rashid Johnson ( $ 50); cashmere blankets by Philip Guston (starting at $ 650); and a set of skateboard decks by Henry Taylor called "Cicely and Miles Visit the Obamas" ( $ 1,250).
The Gagosian Gallery shop's list of gift ideas includes a set of Roy Lichtenstein dinnerware ( $ 850); a Takashi Murakami skateboard deck ( $ 225), and several T-shirts by Derrick Adams ( $ 60).
The sisters of Jean-Michel Basquiat, who died in 1988, recently put a fast-fashion spin on the artist's works, selling flips flops, bourbon, doormats and scented candles stamped with his signature imagery.
Walter Robinson, 73, a painter and an art writer in New York, is long familiar with the concept. "Some artists like making multiples and do it for the fun of it mostly," he said, referring to the practice of making pieces other than traditional artworks at more affordable prices. "Some items were made at least a little as a kind of protest against the high-end commercial market."
Bettina Huang, Platform's chief executive officer, said that when developing products with artists for the website -- like a forthcoming selection of jewelry by the painter Elizabeth Peyton -- originality is the focus. "This is not an attempt to take a famous image, like a Warhol screen print, and slap it onto something," Ms. Huang, 39, said. "The idea is to have the artist adapt or create something that didn't exist before."
As Lucas Zwirner put it, "We are letting the artist create the things they want to create."
Rose Wylie, 89, a British painter who more than a decade ago collaborated on a fashion line with Sienna Miller, recently made a $ 200 hooded sweatshirt for Platform. Marlene Zwirner, 31, Platform's creative director and Mr. Zwirner's daughter, recalled suggesting to the artist that she create something "authentic, cool and wearable."
Ms. Wylie, who is known for loose, spontaneous-looking paintings that are often deceptively childlike, made what she called "an ugly hoodie." It was screen printed with an X-raylike drawing of a cat, an eerie variation on one of her signature images. The sweatshirts, 150 of which were released in April, have since sold out.
"When I was an art student, having your drawing on a waste paper basket, well you couldn't go lower," Ms. Wylie said, adding that the internet has modified the way she and other people think about artist collaborations.
"Now that we're showing pictures on the web," she said, "that's completely changed."
"If a drawing is good," she added, "you can show it on anything."
Photograph Above, two necklaces sold by Josh Smith. Near right, his "Twig" necklace, priced at $ 375. Far right, his "Ghost" necklace, for $ 1,250. Below, a tote bag by Katherine Bernhardt. Below right, a sweatshirt by Rose Wylie. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PLATFORM; NICK SETHI; ABOVE AND LEFT, VIA PLATFORM; KERRY McFATE; PLATFORM; MANON MACASAET; PLATFORM; TRAVIS MATTHEWS) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Jewelry; Artists; Prints and printmaking; Drawing; Skateboarding; Painting

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/05/style/platform-david-zwirner-jewelry.html

Title: Buy Pieces Online and Skip the Art Show:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899950919

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buy-pieces-online-skip-art-show/docview/2899950919/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

From Legoland to the Thrill Ride of 'The Crown': [Style Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legoland-thrill-ride-crown/docview/2899934614/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Meg Bellamy got the call that would change her life -- the one telling her that after months of auditions, it was she, among thousands of hopefuls, who would play Kate Middleton in the final season of "The Crown" -- she was already standing in the shadow of Windsor Castle. But she wasn't looking the part of a royal just yet.
"I was crouched in costume among the bin lorries of a delivery car park at Legoland," Ms. Bellamy, 21, said at a London hotel suite last month. "Until that point, my most regular acting gig had been playing a red plastic brick."
In 2022, and with no professional acting experience, she was working as a performer at the theme park when she spotted a casting call on Twitter for the role of Kate Middleton. Competition to play one of the most famous women in the world during her college years was fierce. Thousands of young actresses were posting videos about their auditions. But after a neighbor remarked on her resemblance to Britain's future queen, Ms. Bellamy, crushed after several drama school rejections, decided to try out for the part. Three weeks after sending a tape, she got a call -- the first in what would be a several monthslong casting process.
"I never really believed I would get the role, not in the beginning anyway," she said. "But then with every round, I started to feel like I had a real chance, and that it might actually be mine to keep. When it was, I was completely shellshocked."
Now, more than two years after that call, Ms. Bellamy's trajectory from obscurity to the brink of stardom appears to be well underway. Last week, she appeared on the front of The Daily Telegraph, which used a still from the series that recreated the moment in 2002 when Ms. Middleton, on a charity fashion catwalk in a daringly sheer dress, was rumored to have first turned the head of Prince William.
This week, ahead of the release of Part 2 of "The Crown" on Dec. 14, Ms. Bellamy was on the red carpet at the London premiere in a creamy Valentino column gown -- 24 hours after attending the Fashion Awards, where she wore a blazer dress with a suit and tie by Huishan Zhang.
And for months she has been courted by big fashion names like Gucci and Dior -- she attended Dior shows in Paris in July and September -- which have a habit of snapping up emerging talent with juicy contracts before they ascend to heights of celebrity. After all, if a fashion house can't hire the Princess of Wales to sell lipstick and handbags, perhaps the unknown actress playing her to an audience of millions is the next best thing.
Over its six seasons, the casting of "The Crown" has largely been anchored by a constellation of established performers, though it has also boosted the sparkly careers of several new faces, including Emma Corrin, who played Princess Diana in Season 4. What was it about Ms. Bellamy that prompted executives to take a chance on her for this role?
"We found that there was an openness to her, an intelligence and a sweetness to her, and a chemistry between her and Ed McVey, who plays Prince William," said Robert Sterne, the casting director for "The Crown." "You wanted to go on the journey with Meg. You wanted her to tell you the story."
Doing Kate Justice
Much has already been made of the parallels between Ms. Bellamy and Ms. Middleton, beyond their delicate features and masses of glossy auburn hair. How both were raised by close families in the royal county of Berkshire. (Ms. Bellamy was actually born in Leeds, in Yorkshire, and has a light Northern twinge that still lingers on some of her vowels.) How both were extremely sporty at school, with a particular love of lacrosse. (Ms. Bellamy, who said she was academic, was also head girl, which is similar to a class president.)
But unlike the Princess of Wales, who studied art history at the University of St. Andrews, Ms. Bellamy didn't attend university. After a number of star turns in school musical productions, including Sandy in "Grease" and Scaramouche in "We Will Rock You," she wanted only to act. She is acutely aware that people wait a lifetime for a break like hers, which came months after leaving high school.
Before the six month shoot, Ms. Bellamy spent months preparing to play Ms. Middleton. She watched documentaries and read newspaper clips compiled by researchers. She also worked with movement and voice coaches to perfect her performance. She took home costumes -- a nostalgic Noughties-inspired wardrobe of low-rise flared jeans, peplum tops, chunky belts and fringed suede knee-high boots -- to wear as she practiced her lines.
"I must have looked insane," Ms. Bellamy said. "I would be dressed as her, reading a book about her and trying to sound like her while walking around the house." She noted that while there is endless footage of Ms. Middleton after she formally joined the royal family in 2011, there is little -- beyond a handful of paparazzi photographs -- from her time at St. Andrews, where she first befriended and then fell in love with Prince William.
"Her first press interview was when she became engaged at 29, so she was something of a blank canvas," Ms. Bellamy said. "I spent a lot of time thinking about what she would have been like before she knew where life would take her and that William would become her husband. I hope that I've done Kate justice."
At the same time, she added, it was nice to remove the layer of complexities that come with being a royal and just play her as a girl who's going to university and falling in love.
When photographs of Ms. Bellamy and Mr. McVey filming at St. Andrews emerged this spring -- and ever since then -- there was intense online interest in her private life and next career steps. (So far, Ms. Bellamy has yet to announce her next role.) Lately she has been working with the stylist Felicity Kay to hone her public image and build a brand for herself.
Has being thrust into the spotlight given her a vague notion of what it must be like to be a royal?
"It's something I've been thinking about, especially as we've done more press ahead of the release," she said. "I really can't imagine the level of pressure royals face day to day. I mean, until last month I'd never been to Hollywood. Then I was not just there, but on a red carpet with people shouting my name."
She added: "But I keep telling myself that this is something I've always dreamed about. You have to remember that, before all of this, I wore a school uniform and could only afford high-street brands like Primark."
Illustration Meg Bellamy, above, in "The Crown" with Ed McVey; far left, at All Souls Church in London; near left from top, at a party for "The Crown" in London, at a premiere in Los Angeles and at the Fashion Awards in London. Ms. Bellamy said that until recently she had not been to Hollywood. "Then I was not just there," she said, "but on a red carpet with people shouting my name." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NETFLIX/THE CROWN; SOPHIE STAFFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LIA TOBY/GETTY IMAGES; MICHAEL TRAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; DOMINIC LIPINSKI/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page ST8.

Subject: Photographs; Theater; Personal profiles

Location: Wales; United Kingdom--UK

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/07/style/meg-bellamy-kate-middleton-the-crown.html

Title: From Legoland to the Thrill Ride of 'The Crown':   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899934614

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legoland-thrill-ride-crown/docview/2899934614/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Two Hearts Beating As One: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Buchanan, Kyle

Publication info: Buchanan, Kyle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/two-hearts-beating-as-one/docview/2898866049/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Have you seen the sausage ad?" Andrew Scott asked me.
"No, no, we're not going to talk about that," Paul Mescal said.
It was a mid-November morning in Los Angeles, and I was having breakfast with two actors who have created some of the most indelible romantic leads of recent vintage: Scott, 47, played the "Hot Priest" on the second season of "Fleabag," while the 27-year-old Mescal broke through -- and broke hearts -- as the conflicted jock Connell in Hulu's "Normal People."
Now, instead of aiming those love beams at women, they'll point them at each other in the drama "All of Us Strangers," due Dec. 22 in theaters. It's like an Avengers-level team-up, if the Avengers recruited exclusively from the ranks of sad-eyed Irish heartthrobs who caused a sensation over the 2019-20 television season.
But before we could talk about their sexy, shattering new movie, Scott gently ribbed his co-star about an ad for an Irish sausage brand, Denny, that Mescal had starred in just out of drama school. (Though the rest of the world was introduced to Mescal in "Normal People," Ireland already knew him from the ubiquitous sausage commercial.)
"Look, I needed that job in a massive way," Mescal said. "That paid my rent for the rest of the year. But if I could take it back ..."
"Ah, no, it's lovely you have that!" Scott said. "I actually thought the character you created in the sausage ad was ..."
"... career defining?" Mescal offered.
"It made me want a sausage!" Scott said a little too eagerly, causing both men to laugh. "Easy, folks, that's too easy a joke," Mescal said.
Scott and Mescal's teasing, affectionate chemistry is put to excellent use in "All of Us Strangers," directed by Andrew Haigh ("Weekend," "45 Years"). Scott stars as Adam, a lonely writer who finds that his childhood home has become a mysterious portal that allows him to reconnect with his long-dead parents (played by Claire Foy and Jamie Bell). At the same time as Adam grapples with this past made manifestly present, he navigates an uncertain but tantalizing future with his neighbor Harry (Mescal), with whom he develops an intense romantic bond.
Over breakfast, we discussed the movie, which recently took the top prize at the British Independent Film Awards in addition to wins for directing, writing and Mescal's supporting performance. Here are edited excerpts from our conversation.
Andrew, you were attached to this movie first. How did you feel when Paul was cast?
SCOTT I was really thrilled because I was hoping that people would be able to see how cinematic and brilliant that role is.
MESCAL It never occurred to me that people wouldn't be interested in it.
SCOTT Well, the character is such a vessel for love. To be able to play love, it's something that you have to just know how to embody, and Paul is so excellent about being able to allow the audience in. When I heard he was interested, I was saying to Andrew, "Make that happen!"
MESCAL Even if I didn't like the script or Andrew Haigh as much as I do, and I knew Andrew [Scott] was going to be doing the film, I still would have done the film.
SCOTT Would you?
MESCAL A hundred percent. And I know that probably sounds sycophantic, but when I was reading it and imagining you'd do it, I thought, "This is built for an actor of your caliber." There's lots of brilliant dramatic actors in the world, but what I think separates Andrew is his capacity to understand the dramatic requirements of a scene but also to play utterly against it. He finds humor in subject matter like this, which is really quite heavy, and if you can make an audience laugh, you're halfway to making them cry.
This is a very tactile movie, too.
SCOTT There's so much touching, whether that's familial touching or a more sensual thing. People have talked an awful lot about the chemistry and the sex between our characters, but actually what I think is really radical and affecting about the relationship is how affectionate and tender they are with each other. It's such a beautiful thing to play, isn't it? Just real care.
MESCAL I find it healing to watch that kind of emotional intimacy. I remember being surprised when we watched it for the first time, because I didn't remember being so close to your face when we were talking, how we were totally taking each other in. There's a weird thing that I don't think you can cheat: You know how when somebody you love is talking to you, and you look at their lips? It's like, Jesus, I can't remember doing that.
Andrew, you've said before that acting is a matter of revealing. What's being revealed about you by taking on this role?
SCOTT I think an awful lot, if I'm honest. I'm happy to be able to say that to be emancipated from shame has been genuinely the biggest achievement of my life. For a long time, I have felt very comfortable with myself, but it doesn't take much to go back there -- something a taxi driver can say can still wound you. If he might say, "You've got a wife?" You could go, "No, I don't," or is that sort of a lie by omission? I think the challenge was to undo the work and go to that place where you feel frightened.
How were you able to emancipate yourself from shame?
SCOTT I genuinely think that acting helped me. When I was a kid, I started doing elocution lessons because I had a really bad lisp. "She sells seashells," I had to say that 17 times a day. So they sent me to elocution, which was boring, but eventually it was speech and drama classes. I was so shy and terrified, but then someone would say, "Get up and do an improvisation," and some part of me felt ...
MESCAL ... free?
SCOTT Free, and I loved it. And then I practiced it a little bit more and then started doing it as a job. When I was 18 or 19, I was playing gay parts but I wasn't out. A lot of people within the industry were queer, so I was surrounded by them and then, bit by bit, started to feel confident. To make something like ["All of Us Strangers"], it moves me, because I never thought that I'd get a chance to expose myself so much in a film like this or for it to be in such a trusting environment with such brilliant colleagues.
And do you rush headlong into the chance to expose yourself like that?
SCOTT I do. It's my responsibility. The further I go into acting, I think that's all it is, actually.
In the first scene you share, Paul's character is boldly trying to flirt his way into Andrew's apartment. Paul, it's a kick to see you play a man so assertive and sure of what he wants.
MESCAL I was just so giddy because I don't think I've got many opportunities to play somebody like that. It reminded me of characters I would have played in drama school -- a lot more front-footed, a little bit bolder. Part of it was surprising an audience that might associate me with more interior, back-footed characters that I've played.
SCOTT I remember so clearly you saying the line, "There's vampires at my door." That line could seem completely preposterous and it's a hard sell, but it's unique, right? I'm obsessed with writing that has a real autograph about it.
MESCAL ChatGPT wouldn't come up with that.
SCOTT Exactly. And human beings have an extraordinary way of expressing themselves. I feel the same way when people talk about big acting.
MESCAL I love big acting.
SCOTT Some people do that kind of polite, nobody-will-notice-me acting, and sometimes it can be a little dull.
MESCAL You're looking for an opportunity to play something truthfully, but also if that truth can be a bigger, more fractious choice, maybe that could be fun.
What's the biggest acting you've ever done?
SCOTT Oh my God. Pick a card, any card. I did a play called "Present Laughter" by Noël Coward, about a guy who's an over-the-top actor. It was kind of a farce, and I'm obsessed with farce.
MESCAL I am so jealous of people who can do farce, I don't know where I would start.
SCOTT It's all about timing the slam of the door, and there's no greater feeling than when you're talking to the other actor and you are waiting for the audience to stop laughing. You'd love it because it's so physical as well.
MESCAL I'm just a bit scared of comedy because I didn't do a lot of it in drama school. Don't think [I've got] a particularly funny disposition.
SCOTT Are you out of your mind? I'm going to have a little think now.
MESCAL I'd love to do a rom-com.
SCOTT I think you'd be very good at playing some sort of neurotic.
MESCAL Really?
SCOTT Yeah. I love those kinds of characters that don't have a sense of humor.
MESCAL No sense of humor. Great. I can do that, I can do that easily. [Laughs.]
With "Normal People" and "Fleabag," where you played romantic leads, how did you handle the intensity of the audience imprinting on you?
MESCAL I remember the first couple of months of that happening, I was like, "Jesus, what can I do?" And the answer is actually nothing. There's nothing you can do about it if somebody wants to imprint or project onto you.
SCOTT That was all during the pandemic, wasn't it?
MESCAL Yeah, yeah.
Was it better or worse that you were in your house for most of it?
MESCAL Much, much better. Even doing junkets when "Normal People" came out, I was really glad to do it within the confines of my own home. I could put the laptop down and nobody knew where I was.
Andrew, you weren't trapped at home when "Fleabag" came out. Could you tell something had changed in the way people perceived you?
SCOTT It already happened a little bit when I did "Sherlock" [playing Moriarty] because that really does have a fandom. There were like a thousand people that would come to set, it was absolutely insane.
MESCAL Jesus.
SCOTT So "Fleabag" was completely different in that sense. It didn't have the same frenzy.
Maybe not as you were filming it, but there was definitely a passionate fandom once it was released.
SCOTT There was, but I really enjoyed that because I love the show. I'm so proud of it and I loved that part, so I liked that it really affected people so much.
MESCAL Still! I watch it once a year.
Paul, you even dressed as the hot priest for Halloween .
MESCAL I did. That went down a bit of a storm.
When you have a breakthrough project like those two series, and you're seen differently in this business afterward, is it hard not to get swept up by all the offers that come your way?
MESCAL I know what I like. I don't have the confidence in myself as an actor to do something that isn't good. I don't think I can pull the wool over people's eyes with bells and whistles in terms of performance, and I'm actually glad I can't do that.
SCOTT But is it weird when you are in L.A. now? I opened up my curtains this morning, and there you are.
MESCAL Yeah, my Gucci billboard.
SCOTT That's insane.
MESCAL It is bananas. Yeah, I'm really proud of that, but I'm also acutely aware the only reason that's happening is because people are enjoying the work that I'm doing. It can all disappear, like that.
Paul, you're currently working on Ridley Scott's sequel to "Gladiator." I'm sure you've been pursued for a lot of blockbusters, so what made you choose this one?
MESCAL I love the first film and I think Ridley is an all-time great, so that was a no-brainer to me. I don't really have a desire to make lots of big films in my life, but if this was the only big film I was ever to make, I would put my name into the mix anywhere for that. I'm having a great time doing it, but I also think there's an obligation to understand that I don't want an audience to get bored of me, or expect me to do the big indie film every year or two, because they're really hard to get right.
Which is hard to get right, the big film or the indie?
MESCAL A film like "All of Us Strangers" or "Aftersun." I've been incredibly lucky that those scripts came across my desk because there's lots of other indies that are really well intentioned that don't reach an audience. Also, it's hard to go to the emotional well year after year with stuff like this, so I don't want an audience to get bored of my choices or expect that I'm going to do that.
SCOTT Do you remember you got the "Gladiator" call when we were on the set of "All of Us Strangers"? You were so excited. I think I was even more excited, but you were so lit up about it. I think one of the fun things about being an actor that's open to you is that you can do whatever you really want.
MESCAL That's what makes you tick, to go from scenes like we get to play in "All of Us Strangers" to then doing stuff where you're running around in an arena. If I was to boil down why I love this job, it's that you get to go to work and pretend all day long but the thing that you would imagine as a child is actually actualized.
SCOTT Have there been any moments in "Gladiator" where you're like, "This is amazing"?
MESCAL The first day was just bananas. There was camels and thousands of extras. Two close-ups on me. A close-up on the action. And you're just like, "I've got to fake this till I make it." Wild. Wild. Wild.
SCOTT Yeah, it's playing. It really is. You're required to play a part, you're not required to work a part.
It's heartening to hear you both describe acting as play or pretend. You talk about it in such joyful terms, but some of the other leading men I've spoken to will ...
MESCAL ... fetishize the pain.
SCOTT It embarrasses them.
MESCAL It's important to say that "pretend" doesn't make it any less emotional or difficult to do, but I think it actually gives you a greater range of possibility in a scene. That's not to say there weren't days on ["All of Us Strangers"] that felt like some sort of psychological torture.
SCOTT Absolutely.
MESCAL But the act of making it? It can't be that, because then it just becomes about "How hard can I grip this table? How much pain can I put myself through in order to talk about it to the press?"
SCOTT I think of it sometimes like you invited somebody around for dinner and you said, "I could not find any organic chicken in the market, it was an absolute nightmare. Then I had to hoover the place from top to bottom." And they're just like, "Give me a glass of wine. I don't want to hear about what you did, I'm just here for dinner."
MESCAL Yeah, that's spot on.
SCOTT What you need to do is have the generosity to get the chicken out.
MESCAL Organic or not.
Photograph Paul Mescal, near right, and Andrew Scott, who have become romantic idols, star in the movie "All of Us Strangers." (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PFLUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1); Above, Paul Mescal, top, and Andrew Scott. Below, Mescal, left, and Scott in "All of Us Strangers." Both actors experienced intense audience reaction for their TV work -- Mescal with "Normal People" and Scott first with "Sherlock" and then "Fleabag." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PFLUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C5.

Subject: Motion pictures; Audiences; Actors

People: Haigh, Andrew

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/06/movies/andrew-scott-paul-mescal-all-of-us-strangers.html

Title: Two Hearts Beating As One:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 7, 2023

column: The Projectionist

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2898866049

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/two-hearts-beating-as-one/docview/2898866049/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Music Inspired by Drug Trade Is Loved and Loathed in Mexico: [Correction]

Author: Cantú, Elda

Publication info: Cantú, Elda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/music-inspired-drug-trade-is-loved-loathed-mexico/docview/2898215771/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Inspired by a century-old genre from the Mexican countryside, the latest pop music phenomenon is drawing thousands of young fans -- and criticism for its violent references.
In many Mexican towns where wars between drug cartels continue to wreak havoc, the sight of a young man at night dressed in black and donning a balaclava would be terrifying. On a recent Saturday in Mexico City, Peso Pluma strutted across the stage in the same outfit, to excited cheers: It was time for the corrido tumbado concert.
The 24-year-old breakout star, who makes a modern take on traditional Mexican music, wore a glamorous Fendi version of a sicario (or hit man) uniform. He faced a stadium full of fans and shouted, "Are you ready to witness the most warlike concert of your life?"
The crowd roared back: It was ready. Later, during "El Gavilán," the audience sang in unison, "I'm of the people of Chapo Guzmán," a reference to one of Mexico's most notorious drug lords.
Peso Pluma, along with acts like Natanael Cano, Grupo Firme, Eslabon Armado and Banda MS, is at the forefront of a musical movement that has found growing audiences this year in the United States and beyond. The artists perform corridos tumbados (or trap corridos), which combine singing and rapping familiar to fans of hip-hop and reggaeton with instrumentation and melodies common to traditional Mexican music, along with lyrics inspired by narcocorridos -- songs that tell stories of the drug trade.
But even as Peso Pluma racks up millions of streams and Grupo Firme tours arenas in the United States, these artists often find themselves in contested territory at home, where the drug war isn't a dramatic fantasy but a bloody daily reality.
"They are striking a nerve of Mexican culture," said Camilo Lara, 48, a music producer, composer and former label executive with extensive film credits. He cited how the artists have tapped into "the relationship with violence, the relationship with the street, with politics, with what's happening with fashion," and added, "It's the most exciting moment in Mexican music in 20 or 30 years."
Peso Pluma's stadium show at Foro Sol, a venue that holds more than 60,000 people, was the last of his concerts in his home country after several cancellations over security threats. Days earlier, authorities in Tijuana had banned corridos tumbados in all public spaces with fines of up to $ 70,000.
While the sounds and the faces may be fresh, these artists are heirs of a musical tradition that has long attracted controversy. In 1987, the governor of Sinaloa asked local news media to stop the broadcast of music that made reference to drug trafficking. In 2002, radio stations in the border state of Baja California agreed not to play songs that exalted narcos and asked their U.S. counterparts to do the same. In 2010, conservative Mexican lawmakers presented a bill that would have sent artists who glorified criminals to prison.
"The decision to ban these corridos tumbados is to protect the mental health of Tijuana's children," the city's mayor, Montserrat Caballero Ramírez, said last month through a spokesman. In May, Cancun banned public shows "that foster violence," saying such events contradicted the pursuit of peace and security; Grupo Firme canceled a concert there shortly after. Two months later, Chihuahua's City Council voted unanimously to fine public shows promoting violence.
Officials contend it is not censorship. "They can sing whatever they want," Mexico's president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, said this summer, "but we are not going to keep quiet when they say that Ecstasy is good, that they have a .50 caliber gun and the most famous narcos are their idols." A month later, perhaps in tacit recognition of the influence of corridos tumbados, the government released its own kind of tumbado: a song warning of the dangers of fentanyl.
The artists have pointed out that their lyrics aren't aimed at children. "I know sometimes it's not OK for kids to see or hear this," Peso Pluma said in an interview, "but it's a reality."
The reality is also that this type of music, once very locally rooted and associated with an older generation, is attracting global attention for its catchiness and cachet. The songs are not only fixtures of radio stations in Los Angeles, but are draws for concertgoers in Lima and Madrid and have made fans of celebrities like Mike Tyson and the band Maneskin.
"I heard it at a wedding," said Javier Nuño, a partner at Indice, a company that has licensed Peso Pluma's and Cano's songs for HBO. Once you cross over into wedding D.J. playlists, "you are at another level," he added.
At Peso Pluma's Mexico City show, kids arrived in droves -- mostly teenage boys dressed in Air Jordans, oversize hoodies and outfits featuring Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry logos in models, colors and materials Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry have probably never manufactured. Some dared to sport Peso Pluma's signature mullet.
Oliver Medrano, 35, said his 9-year-old, Sofía, had asked for tickets. The two gave up their seats close to the stage and watched instead from the bleachers after the girl's mother protested. "They say the songs are too war-driven," Medrano said. Sofía said she had become hooked on "El Belicón" ("The Belligerent"), Peso Pluma's song about a man who boasts of owning sports cars, bazookas and Kalashnikovs.
"I was a bit worried about security," Medrano said. But mid-concert he felt confident enough to ask the couple next to him to watch his daughter while he made a quick bathroom run.
Leonardo Manuel, 12, attended the show in a blue velour tracksuit with rhinestones arranged in the Fendi logo with his aunt, Elizabeth Rubí Cruz, who works at a jewelry store; she said there was a high demand for Cuban-style chains, thanks to the influence of Peso Pluma. Clients "like how he dresses," she said. The pair's favorite song? "Lady Gaga," about a dealer hanging out with influencers ("none of them post to Instagram"), with mentions of Cartier, pink cocaine and Louis Vuitton.
The excitement, and controversy, surrounding the lyrical content of corridos tumbados in Mexico in many ways mirrors decades of debate in the United States over the real-life implications of rap lyrics. From N.W.A to Jay-Z and Rick Ross, many of the most popular hip-hop artists have relied on the imagery of drug kingpins for both glitz and grit. Beginning with the gangster rap of the 1980s and '90s and continuing through the 21st-century hip-hop subgenres of trap and drill, lyrics that document -- and some say glorify -- the drug trade, its attendant violence and its spoils have remained a cultural and political battleground. Currently in Atlanta, music by the rapper Young Thug is being used in court as evidence of his membership in a criminal street gang.
"You see these guys partying with these luxuries and suddenly it's, 'How can I get this?' especially in this country, our country, which has some very strong social limitations," said Graciela Flores, a professor at the Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila.
Dr. Flores, who specializes in 19th-century crime and justice in the Mexican borderlands, organized a series of events this past fall at the university focused on corridos tumbados at the behest of one of her students. She was overwhelmed by the attendance. "People were eager to talk about what they had seen" in terms of daily violence in their communities, she explained. The songs had moved people to share their experiences, something that Dr. Flores found "valuable, but at the same time very disturbing."
This past spring, the steps of the National Auditorium in Mexico City were filled with mothers waiting while their children attended a Natanael Cano concert. Cano, 22, is recognized as a pioneer of corridos tumbados, which absorb many elements of old-fashioned corridos: nasal voices, tololoche, accordion or brass instruments, strummed guitars.
"At the beginning I was freaked out a bit" by the lyrics, said Dolores Saldívar, 47, who sells balloons. "But now I like them." She had paid about $ 120 each for her two teenage children to attend.
Juan Bosco de la Cruz Rangel, 23, the student who had urged Dr. Flores to put on the conference, said that when he and his friends started listening to tumbados, he looked up the artists online and found them relatable -- skinny guys who liked to party and saw the police as hostile -- to a point: "We're literally them," he said. "We're their age, but without money, bands and that life." Though he faces daily dangers, he finds songs about gangs and guns provocative and unsettling. Still, he added, he understands where the lyrics are coming from. Critics of the genre "that have never been hungry, it's easy for them to say 'there's a different way"' to make a livelihood, he said.
Bringing Cano to the stage in Mexico City, Peso Pluma proclaimed that his fellow artist had "paved a road so all of us could be here" to wild cheers. Just a few days earlier, Peso Pluma had notched another milestone: his first ever Grammy nomination.
Photograph Peso Pluma's music has found a wide audience beyond Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEDIOS Y MEDIA, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A1); Natanael Cano in April 2022. He is known as a pioneer of corridos tumbados, a modern take on traditional Mexican music. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DUDELSON/GETTY IMAGES) (A6) This article appeared in print on page A1, A6.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Bans; Rap music; Artists; Lyrics; Radio stations; Drug trafficking; Musical performances; Violence; Logos; Hip hop music

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Radio stations Logos

Location: Mexico; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Fendi; NAICS: 334519, 458110; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

Title: Music Inspired by Drug Trade Is Loved and Loathed in Mexico:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2898215771

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/music-inspired-drug-trade-is-loved-loathed-mexico/docview/2898215771/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 6, 2023

Last updated: 20 23-12-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The World Loves Corridos Tumbados. In Mexico, It’s Complicated.

Author: Cantú, Elda

Publication info: Cantú, Elda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/world-loves-corridos-tumbados-mexico-s/docview/2898128675/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MEXICO CITY — In many Mexican towns where wars between drug cartels continue to wreak havoc, the sight of a young man at night dressed in black and donning a balaclava would be terrifying. On a recent Saturday in Mexico City, Peso Pluma strutted across the stage in the same outfit, to excited cheers: It was time for the corrido tumbado concert.
The 24-year-old breakout star, who makes a modern take on traditional Mexican music, wore a glamorous Fendi version of a sicario (or hit man) uniform. He faced a stadium full of fans and shouted, “Are you ready to witness the most warlike concert of your life?”
The crowd roared back: It was ready. Later, during “El Gavilán,” the audience sang in unison, “I’m of the people of Chapo Guzmán,” a reference to one of Mexico’s most notorious drug lords.
Peso Pluma — along with acts like Natanael Cano, Grupo Firme, Eslabon Armado and Banda MS — is at the forefront of a musical movement that has found growing audiences this year in the United States and beyond. The artists perform corridos tumbados (or trap corridos), which combine singing and rapping familiar to fans of hip-hop and reggaeton with instrumentation and melodies common to traditional Mexican music, along with lyrics inspired by narcocorridos — songs that tell stories of the drug trade.
But even as Peso Pluma racks up millions of streams and Grupo Firme tours arenas in the United States, these artists often find themselves in contested territory at home, where the drug war isn’t a dramatic fantasy but a bloody daily reality.
“They are striking a nerve of Mexican culture,” said Camilo Lara, 48, a music producer, composer and former label executive with extensive film credits. He cited how the artists have tapped into “the relationship with violence, the relationship with the street, with politics, with what’s happening with fashion,” and added, “It’s the most exciting moment in Mexican music in 20 or 30 years.”
Peso Pluma’s stadium show at Foro Sol, a venue that holds more than 60,000 people, was the last of his concerts in his home country after several cancellations over security threats. Days earlier, authorities in Tijuana had banned corridos tumbados in all public spaces, with fines of up to $70,000.
While the sounds and the faces may be fresh, these artists are heirs of a musical tradition that has long attracted controversy. In 1987, the governor of Sinaloa asked local news media to stop the broadcast of music that made reference to drug trafficking. In 2002, radio stations in the border state of Baja California agreed not to play songs that exalted narcos and asked their U.S. counterparts to do the same. In 2010, conservative Mexican lawmakers presented a bill that would have sent artists who glorified criminals to prison.
“The decision to ban these corridos tumbados is to protect the mental health of Tijuana’s children,” the city’s mayor, Montserrat Caballero Ramírez, said last month through a spokesperson. In May, Cancun banned public shows “that foster violence,” saying such events contradicted the pursuit of peace and security; Grupo Firme canceled a concert there shortly after. Two months later, Chihuahua’s City Council voted unanimously to fine public shows promoting violence.
Officials contend it is not censorship. “They can sing whatever they want,” Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, said this summer, “but we are not going to keep quiet when they say that ecstasy is good, that they have a .50-caliber gun and the most famous narcos are their idols.” A month later, perhaps in tacit recognition of the influence of corridos tumbados, the government released its own kind of tumbado: a song warning of the dangers of fentanyl.
The artists have pointed out that their lyrics aren’t aimed at children. “I know sometimes it’s not OK for kids to see or hear this,” Peso Pluma said in an interview, “but it’s a reality.”
The reality is also that this type of music, once very locally rooted and associated with an older generation, is attracting global attention for its catchiness and cachet. The songs are not only fixtures of radio stations in Los Angeles but are also draws for concertgoers in Lima, Peru, and Madrid and have made fans of celebrities like Mike Tyson and the band Maneskin.
“I heard it at a wedding,” said Javier Nuño, a partner at Indice, a company that has licensed Peso Pluma’s and Cano’s songs for HBO. Once you cross over into wedding DJ playlists, “you are at another level,” he added.
At Peso Pluma’s Mexico City show, kids arrived in droves — mostly teenage boys dressed in Air Jordans, oversize hoodies and outfits featuring Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry logos in models, colors and materials Nike, Gucci, Fendi and Burberry have probably never manufactured. Some dared to sport Peso Pluma’s signature mullet.
Oliver Medrano, 35, said his 9-year-old, Sofía, had asked for tickets. The two gave up their seats close to the stage and watched instead from the bleachers after the girl’s mother protested. “They say the songs are too war-driven,” Medrano said. Sofía said she had become hooked on “El Belicón” (“The Belligerent”), Peso Pluma’s song about a man who boasts of owning sports cars, bazookas and Kalashnikovs.
“I was a bit worried about security,” Medrano said. But midconcert, he felt confident enough to ask the couple next to him to watch his daughter while he made a quick bathroom run.
Leonardo Manuel, 12, attended the show in a blue velour tracksuit with rhinestones arranged in the Fendi logo with his aunt, Elizabeth Rubí Cruz, who works at a jewelry store; she said there was a high demand for Cuban-style chains, thanks to the influence of Peso Pluma. Clients “like how he dresses,” she said. The pair’s favorite song? “Lady Gaga,” about a dealer hanging out with influencers (“none of them post to Instagram”), with mentions of Cartier, pink cocaine and Louis Vuitton.
The excitement and controversy surrounding the lyrical content of corridos tumbados in Mexico in many ways mirrors decades of debate in the United States over the real-life implications of rap lyrics. From N.W.A to Jay-Z and Rick Ross, many of the most popular hip-hop artists have relied on the imagery of drug kingpins for both glitz and grit. Beginning with the gangster rap of the 1980s and ’90s and continuing through the 21st-century hip-hop subgenres of trap and drill, lyrics that document — and some say glorify — the drug trade, its attendant violence and its spoils have remained a cultural and political battleground. Currently in Atlanta, music by rapper Young Thug is being used in court as evidence of his membership in a criminal street gang.
“You see these guys partying with these luxuries, and suddenly, it’s, ‘How can I get this?’ especially in this country, our country, which has some very strong social limitations,” said Graciela Flores, a professor at the Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila.
Flores, who specializes in 19th-century crime and justice in the Mexican borderlands, organized a series of events this past fall at the university focused on corridos tumbados at the behest of one of her students. She was overwhelmed by the attendance. “People were eager to talk about what they had seen” in terms of daily violence in their communities, she explained. The songs had moved people to share their experiences, something that Flores found “valuable, but at the same time very disturbing.”
This past spring, the steps of the National Auditorium in Mexico City were filled with mothers waiting while their children attended a Natanael Cano concert. Cano, 22, is recognized as a pioneer of corridos tumbados, which absorb many elements of old-fashioned corridos: nasal voices, tololoche, accordion or brass instruments, strummed guitars.
“At the beginning, I was freaked out a bit” by the lyrics, said Dolores Saldívar, 47, who sells balloons. “But now I like them.” She had paid about $120 each for her two teenage children to attend.
Juan Bosco de la Cruz Rangel, 23, the student who had urged Flores to put on the conference, said that when he and his friends started listening to tumbados, he looked up the artists online and found them relatable — skinny guys who liked to party and saw the police as hostile — to a point: “We’re literally them,” he said. “We’re their age, but without money, bands and that life.” Although he faces daily dangers, he finds songs about gangs and guns provocative and unsettling. Still, he added, he understands where the lyrics are coming from. Critics of the genre “that have never been hungry, it’s easy for them to say, ‘There’s a different way’” to make a livelihood, he said.
Bringing Cano to the stage in Mexico City, Peso Pluma proclaimed that his fellow artist had “paved a road so all of us could be here,” to wild cheers. Just a few days earlier, Peso Pluma had notched another milestone: his first ever Grammy nomination.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Jewelry stores; Rap music; Bans; Artists; Lyrics; Radio stations; Musical performances; Violence; Logos; Hip hop music

Business indexing term: Subject: Jewelry stores Radio stations Logos

Location: Mexico; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Fendi; NAICS: 334519, 458110; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

Identifier / keyword: Cano, Natanael; Madrid (Spain); Chihuahua (Mexico); Baja California (Mexico); Tijuana (Mexico); Atlanta (Ga); Ecstasy (D rug); Seasons And Months; Radio; Shoes And Boots; Camilo (Singer); Drug Abuse And Traffic; Lady Gaga; Peace Process; Arts; Tyson, Mike; United States; Maneskin (Music Group); Entertainment; N W A (Music Group); Gangs; Los Angeles Sol (Soccer Team); Youth; Burberry; Politics And Government; California; Rap And Hip Hop; Mexico City (Mexico); Nike Inc; Instagram Inc; Fendi Spa; Jewels And Jewelry; Drug Cartels; Home Box Office; Coahuila (Mexico); Music; Banda Ms (Music Group); Senses And Sensation; Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Law And Legislation; Cuba; International Relations; News And News Media; Local Government; Jay Z; Uniforms; Grupo Firme (Music Group); Cancun (Mexico); Latin Music; Louis Vuitton; Grammy Awards; Ears And Hearing; Pop And Rock Music; Peso Pluma (Musician); Gucci; Mexico; Williams, Jeffery Lamar (Young Thug); Television; Ross, Rick (1976 ); Fans (Persons); Age, Chronological

Title: The World Loves Corridos Tumbados. In Mexico, It’s Complicated.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-05T23:40:05Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2898128675

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/world-loves-corridos-tumbados-mexico-s/docview/2898128675/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Vintage Shop to Stars Holds Its Own Against Rivals: [Style Desk]

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vintage-shop-stars-holds-own-against-rivals/docview/2896187486/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On a recent afternoon in SoHo, Seth Weisser and Gerard Maione were checking in on their shop, What Goes Around Comes Around, a luxury vintage boutique on West Broadway that has long been a downtown destination for stylists and celebrities.
They stepped past Jean Paul Gaultier shirts from the late 1980s and Harley-Davidson biker jackets from the 1960s before entering the area containing their vast Levi's collection. Mr. Weisser, who was wearing a vintage Hermès jacket, gingerly took hold of a pair of 1950s-era jeans. The price was $ 3,000.
"These might look like ordinary Levi's, but the denim connoisseur who sees someone wearing these is going to know exactly what they are," he said. "This is the beginning of quiet luxury."
One of their regular customers, Stefon Diggs, a wide receiver for the Buffalo Bills, was browsing near a mannequin holding a quilted Chanel purse made in the 1990s.
"You beat my Jets yesterday," Mr. Maione called out.
"Yeah, but you guys beat us last time," Mr. Diggs replied.
Mr. Diggs ended up buying two Chanel purses. Outside the store, a friend took pictures of him modeling his purchases in front of an S.U.V.
"I've been shopping at What Goes Around Comes Around for a long time," Mr. Diggs said, mid-pose. "I like vintage because it's timeless, so I like to stack up on it here."
Mr. Weisser, 56, and Mr. Maione, 55, grew up in neighboring towns on Long Island. Mr. Weisser's mother was a gym teacher, and his father was a lawyer; Mr. Maione's family ran an Italian deli.
The two men became friends at Syracuse University in the late 1980s. They began thrifting at street fairs and flea markets in the 1990s, when they learned that their best shot at getting into Manhattan nightclubs like Spy Bar was to have a slick look.
The hunt for vintage became their obsession. At a rag house in the Bronx, they filled trash bags with rock concert T-shirts and a pair of Levi's made during the Eisenhower administration; at the Rose Bowl parking lot in Pasadena, Calif., they bought rare denim from the backs of vans.
They opened What Goes Around Comes Around in 1993. In those days, secondhand meant second-rate to much of the fashion set, and the duo saw themselves as downtown entrepreneurs whose mission it was to preach the gospel of vintage.
"The stigma was that people felt it was beneath them to buy something used," Mr. Weisser said, "but we saw wearing vintage as giving someone individuality."
Their first regulars included Jean Paul Gaultier and Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy. Stylists for "Sex and the City" found outfits there for the show's star, Sarah Jessica Parker, who became a client herself.
"New York has a long history of vintage, but it's the way they pursued pieces with legacy that always made them stand out," Ms. Parker said. "There will be only one of something there, not multiples of it. And that's when vintage gets really special."
"They're not the RealReal," she added. "What they do feels a little more rarefied. Sometimes you have to be a bit of a fashion historian to understand what they have, but it's worth the effort."
After three decades in business, What Goes Around Comes Around has an outpost in Beverly Hills and a recently opened second boutique in SoHo. Its customer base includes Kendall and Kylie Jenner, Lenny Kravitz and Kate Moss. Items now on sale include a Hermès "pochette" purse ( $ 34,500), a Chrome Hearts alligator zip pouch ( $ 3,500) and a leather Christian Dior cap ( $ 775).
In recent years, as high-end vintage wear became a booming business, Mr. Weisser and Mr. Maione found themselves competing against the venture capital-backed consignment platform the RealReal, the online marketplace Vestiaire Collective and other similar businesses.
To bolster their e-commerce division, they recently started an online shop, in partnership with Amazon, and began producing a livestream shopping series hosted by the handbag historian Mason Howell. Episodes have included "Gossip Girl Style" and "Inspired by Priscilla Presley."
"In terms of all our online competition, we were a bit late to the game in chasing that idea, so we've had to decide how to differentiate ourselves," Mr. Weisser said.
Mr. Maione offered the opinion that their rivals buy more indiscriminately. "Lots of the stuff is fluff," he said. "We curate to a very high level, and the only closets we're going into are ones that we know have pinnacle pieces."
"That's why we get the stylists and the celebs," he continued. "Because they know they'll be the only ones out there wearing something if they've gotten it from us."
They also reflected on a less obvious edge they might have on the competition: their decadeslong friendship.
"We've been through a lot together, from recessions to 9/11," Mr. Maione said. "But we always have each other."
Their bond, they said, helped them endure a painful downsizing during the pandemic that forced them to close locations in Miami, East Hampton and the Upper East Side. Since 2018, they have also been in litigation with Chanel, which sued What Goes Around Comes for trademark infringement, an allegation they deny. (Chanel, which has an uneasy relationship with the luxury resale sector, sued the RealReal that same year.)
When asked how they hunt for vintage clothing these days, Mr. Weisser and Mr. Maione said the particulars of acquisition are trade secrets, but allowed that they make visits to the closets of a stylish eccentric on Central Park South and that they take regular trips to the Paris flea market at Saint-Ouen-sur-Seine.
"We still fight to get into the best closets," Mr. Weisser said. "The hunt is what keeps us going."
As evening approached, the duo drove through the Holland Tunnel toward their 35,000-square-foot warehouse office in Jersey City. They entered by freight elevator and made the rounds of cavernous stockrooms filled with boxes of Rolex watches, bundles of 1970s rock concert T-shirts and towering piles of Louis Vuitton monogram bags.
They paid a visit to their e-commerce team and greeted a member of their authentication division, who was examining a Gucci bag with a magnifying glass for any signs of sophisticated fakery. Then they stepped into a room filled with heaps of Levi's.
Mr. Maione ran a hand across a pair of jeans with a few tears in the fabric.
"It's getting harder to find the old Levi's stuff," he said. "There's not much of it left out there now. The source of it is all drying up. But denim never goes bad. It only gets better."
Photograph Seth Weisser, top left, and Gerard Maione, the owners of What Goes Around Comes Around. Above, the boutique's headquarters in Jersey City, N.J. Above left, vintage handbags are one of the shop's specialties. Its SoHo shop is at left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST13.

Subject: Denim; Consignment buying

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/29/style/what-goes-around-comes-around.html

Title: Vintage Shop to Stars Holds Its Own Against Rivals:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 3, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2896187486

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vintage-shop-stars-holds-own-against-rivals/docview/2896187486/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Roots' Tariq Trotter Brings In the Funk: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Kimble, Julian

Publication info: Kimble, Julian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roots-tariq-trotter-brings-funk/docview/2893512450/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tariq Trotter, the Roots frontman and author of the new book "The Upcycled Self," loves a period drama when it's done right.
Despite earning worldwide acclaim as the frontman of the Roots and achieving a degree of ubiquity when they became the house band for "The Tonight Show," Tariq Trotter, also known as Black Thought, is an introvert and a bit of an enigma. There's a good chance that fans who know every Roots verse still know little about the man behind them.
That could change with the release this month of his memoir, "The Upcycled Self." In it, Trotter, 50, reflects on growing up in Philadelphia during the 1970s and '80s, zeroing in on how experiences like losing both parents by the age of 16 hardened him, and how his passion for the arts gave him much-needed direction. "The final frontier was to delve deeper into myself and become more introspective," he said during a phone interview.
Looking back, even to revisit his most painful memories, helped Trotter to move forward. He shared a few sources of creative inspiration, favorite works of art and timeless fashion pieces. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Documentaries
There's a historical aspect to whatever story I'm telling, whether it's my own or I'm talking about the world. My inspiration often comes from documentaries. Anything that Ken Burns touches -- I just appreciate that style of storytelling. I'll get a nugget from something in there that will spark the bar that leads to the song or whatever the composition evolves from. I recently watched "The American Buffalo," and it makes you think about how much of the history of this country meets at that intersection.
'The Source of Self-Regard' by Toni Morrison
"The Source of Self-Regard" is one of my go-tos. It really helped me get through the pandemic when the world shut down. It's one of the first books that I took off the shelf, and in it, Toni Morrison said something about the role of the artist during turbulent times. It really put a battery in my back.
My Mom's Music
George Benson; Earth, Wind & Fire; Marvin Gaye. If I hear any of that stuff, or funk music like Parliament, Rick James, Teena Marie -- anything post-disco through the '80s is the music that really impacted me. The same stuff that I listen to when I'm making a meal, we're having guests over or during a long drive, the sonic safe space for me is the music my mom used to play.
Stevie Wonder Albums
It's definitely "Songs in the Key of Life" as an adult. But the Stevie album I heard the most growing up was probably "Hotter Than July." Then, sometimes, you have to take a deep dive and do "Fulfillingness' First Finale." But in just talking about these three compositions, I appreciate the fact that there was space within the artist for all three to exist. The fact that that much range could exist within one person gives me hope as an artist and compels me to create more.
Funk
I'm going to gravitate more toward Sly and the Family Stone and then maybe more toward Ohio Players. Midwest funk? Yeah. I think there's something avant-garde; it's almost like organized chaos. It feels very improvised and scattered sonically in a way that might seem all over the place to the untrained ear. But when you're able to recognize those elements and tap all the way into them, it's the ultimate liberty.
Historical Drama, When Done Right
I really rock with shows like "The Gilded Age" or even some of the Westerns that are coming out. I'm not a huge "Yellowstone" fan, but I am a huge fan of both "1883" and "1923." Because they're done right, I feel like I'm transported to a place that I may have never seen.
Spike Lee Joints
Sometimes, I feel like "Mo' Better Blues" is my favorite Spike joint. That, "Malcolm X," "Do the Right Thing" and "Jungle Fever" are probably my favorites from him. You know how people say, "in no particular order"? If you asked me tomorrow, I might give you that exact same list in a different order.
Scorsese Movies Starring De Niro
If you're talking about Martin Scorsese, strangely enough, "Cape Fear" is one of my favorites, if not the favorite. I'm also a huge Robert De Niro fan, and I feel he's often underutilized. "Cape Fear" was a rare instance of us seeing De Niro moving in a different way. It was a much-needed curveball.
Headwear
I have a bunch of fedoras that were made by a brother named Isaac Larose who used to have a company called Larose Paris. The tan fedora that people see me wearing on that Funkmaster Flex freestyle? I have multiple versions.
Vintage Shirts
I've got this olive green military Gucci shirt with epaulets on the shoulders. It's hand-painted with butterflies, flowers and all types of leaves. I've had it since 2000 and still rock it to this day. My wife does not like it, but I love it and feel like it's never going out of style.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN BEDDER/GETTY IMAGES FOR AUDIBLE) This article appeared in print on page AR4.

Subject: Funk music; Music

Location: Cape Fear

People: Morrison, Toni (1931-2019)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/18/arts/music/tariq-trotter-black-thought-roots-upcycled-self.html

Title: The Roots' Tariq Trotter Brings In the Funk:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 26, 2023

column: My Ten

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893512450

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roots-tariq-trotter-brings-funk/docview/2893512450/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dressing for the Show. Real Estate Is the Side Gig.: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kodé, Anna; Krystie Lee Yandoli

Publication info: Kodé, Anna; Krystie Lee Yandoli. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressing-show-real-estate-is-side-gig/docview/2891380482/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The reality show is supposed to be about real estate. But many viewers are coming just for the fashion, and the cast knows it. "Selling Sunset" is anything but subtle.
The Netflix reality show follows a cast of real estate professionals at the Oppenheim Group, a Los Angeles-based luxury brokerage. It features multimillion dollar listings and brief celebrity name-drops and appearances. Side eyes are even more abundant.
But as viewers continue to binge the show season after season, chatter has focused not on what the agents and associates are selling, but what they are wearing. That, too, is anything but subtle. Each episode, the Oppenheim Group's office turns into a catwalk.
Though high-production scripted shows like "Succession" and "White Lotus" sparked lengthy over-analysis surrounding "stealth wealth" or "quiet luxury," the wardrobe on "Selling Sunset" is flashier -- there are more sequins than pinstripes.
Some viewers have criticized the agents' sartorial choices for being garish or unrealistic, but the apparel -- which has become progressively louder with each season -- is working. The show's sixth season, which premiered in May, was in Netflix's Top 10 most-watched shows in nearly 60 countries, and there's more to come -- Season 7 premieres on Friday.
Cast members on "Selling Sunset" don't have designated costume designers or stylists provided by production; they're responsible for funding and choosing their own clothing. In interviews, several of the agents said that they dress for the show, not the showings -- often amping up their style just for when they're filming. If they didn't, would we still be watching? Here's a look back at some of last season's most memorable style moments.
Revenge Dressing
Chrishell Stause, Season 1's Oppenheim Group newbie, said she was at first intimidated at the thought of dressing for her glitzy job. Fast forward to Season 6, Ms. Stause authoritatively stated that the cast's fashion, including her own, was "camp."
"It's so over the top, and I think sometimes we just lean into it," said Ms. Stause, 42. "We're making a show at the end of the day. We want to give people something fun to look at."
While filming, Ms. Stause keeps a garment rack of outfits at the ready, tracking what she's already worn. At the beginning of Season 6, she wanted to feel confident for her first scene back in the office after breaking up with Jason Oppenheim, the brokerage's president, so she wore a red Ivy Park jumpsuit.
"Each season we would see what the feedback was and then it became about, 'how do we outdo ourselves?"' she said. "When somebody shows up in something so ridiculous, you can almost see what the meme is going to be when you're looking at it."
Deal Hunting and Diesel
If there's one thing to be said about Chelsea Lazkani's style, it's that she commits to the bit.
In an episode where she's meeting a fellow cast member for coffee, Ms. Lazkani wore a mini Diesel belt skirt that already had a viral moment in 2022 following its runway debut. Giving the skirt another chance at internet fame, the scene shows Ms. Lazkani struggling to sit down. What the viewer doesn't see is how she got there in the first place. "I put it on, and I got in my car, and I realized, 'oh my gosh, I can't sit down,"' said Ms. Lazkani, 30. "So I took the skirt off, I put it in the passenger seat, and I was driving in my underwear to get to set. As soon as I got to set, I put the skirt back on, and it was time to go."
On TikTok, Ms. Lazkani has been vocal about how the cast members have to pay for their own hair, makeup and wardrobe. So she tries to save where she can, and like anyone, she loves a good deal. "I'm utilizing resale places, I'm going to vintage stores, I'm going to thrift stores," she said.
Oh, and her iconic gloves? She ordered those on Amazon. "Thanks, Jeff Bezos," she said.
'I've always been extra'
Unlike some of the other agents, last season's new real estate associate Bre Tiesi said she "despises pink." Drawn to sportier and more masculine styles, she's seen in monochromatic looks and matching sets.
"I obviously step it up a little bit because we are on a show but for the most part, this is very much how I would dress for any occasion," said Ms. Tiesi, 32. "I've always been extra, I've always dressed over the top, so this isn't new by any means."
Ms. Tiesi is a new mom who doesn't always have the luxury to shop and peruse on her own since she gave birth to her son with Nick Cannon in 2022. To help build her looks, Ms. Tiesi said she employed stylists and personal shoppers.
In Season 6, Ms. Tiesi is seen on camera showing luxury homes to celebrity clients Saweetie and Deontay Wilder's fiancée Telli Swift. When she's working with her impressive clients, she said it's important for her to "dress the part" and show up "polished and put together."
"If you're showing up dressed for the occasion and you're selling a very expensive listing, I feel like those things are parallel," Ms. Tiesi said.
Stealth Wealth, Minus the Stealth
"I don't bring the drama, so I've got to bring the houses and the fashion," said Mary Fitzgerald, 43, who has been on the show since the first season's debut in 2019.
As Ms. Fitzgerald's status at the "O" Group rose -- she went from agent to partner and vice president -- so too did her style. In Season 1, she sported button-down blouses, blazers and an Oppenheim-branded baseball cap. Five seasons later, Ms. Fitzgerald wore a logo-clad Fendace power suit to the office. Her statement necklaces also stood out onscreen, including one with a colossal double-G Gucci logo and a pearl-stranded Vivienne Westwood choker that's been a TikTok favorite.
When asked what led to the personal style evolution, Ms. Fitzgerald had a simple answer: "Well, it's easier when you have more money." She also said that there's a competitive aspect of dressing up on the show, "where you know the other girls are going to be bringing the fashion, and it's like, OK, I gotta make an effort."
But she tones it down for much of her work life. "I tailor what I'm wearing to the client," Ms. Fitzgerald said. "If I'm showing an older couple in Bel Air, then I make sure I have more of a homey, kind of conservative look."
'It's not just about real estate anymore'
When Amanza Smith first joined "Selling Sunset" in its second season, she wore everything in her closet until she ran out of clothes. Then, she shopped at discount stores like Ross.
"I would have a $ 14 dress on, and nobody would even know because I would just pair it with some fancy shoes," said Ms. Smith, 46.
As the show and the houses grew bigger and the commissions higher, Ms. Smith began to feel the pressure to elevate her style. For Season 6, she worked with a celebrity stylist.
"It's not just about real estate anymore. People are looking at our outfits, our makeup and our hair just as much as they're looking at the beautiful homes," Ms. Smith said. "If we weren't filming a television show, would we be able to show up at the office in those outfits? I don't think so." Though Ms. Smith may no longer resort to shopping sprees at Ross, she decided to return to styling herself for Season 7, she said.
Gucci-ed Out
Jason Oppenheim, 46, who runs the brokerage with his twin brother, Brett Oppenheim, said he felt "boxed into professional attire" for much of his career.
"I got more style as I got more comfortable and more successful because I felt like I didn't need to be as rigid in my presentation," he said. At the show's start, Mr. Oppenheim wore ties, button-downs and sweaters -- a striped shirt was a wild card for him in those days.
But when "Queer Eye" star Tan France asked him why the men on the show don't dress up as much as the women, Mr. Oppenheim felt he needed to put in more effort. "That actually encouraged me to hire a stylist," said Mr. Oppenheim. "I have a stylist literally at my house now helping me with a look book in my closet."
These days, Mr. Oppenheim has been less afraid of color. He went through several polos from the Adidas and Gucci collaboration line, a favorite of his. "I definitely have a lot of Gucci shirts. And pants. And shoes."
Top, the cast of Netflix's "Selling Sunset," the reality show that follows a group of luxury real estate agents in Los Angeles. Second row, Chrishell Stause, left, in Season 6 and, right, in the Season 1. Above left and left, Amanza Smith. Above, Bre Tiesi, the new agent in Season 6. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK SELIGER; NETFLIX; SARA MALLY) This article appeared in print on page RE7.

Subject: Luxury homes; Celebrities

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Oppenheim Group; NAICS: 531210; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/03/realestate/selling-sunset-netflix-season-7-fashion.html

Title: Dressing for the Show. Real Estate Is the Side Gig.:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 19, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891380482

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dressing-show-real-estate-is-side-gig/docview/2891380482/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Plan to Help Native Americans Get Sober Ended in a Nightmare: [National Desk]

Author: Healy, Jack

Publication info: Healy, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/plan-help-native-americans-get-sober-ended/docview/2889143341/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Arizona spent $ 1 billion on addiction treatment, much of it fraudulent, officials said. Scores of Native Americans who sought help are still struggling with untreated addiction -- and some died in rehab.
The white vans were the first thing people noticed.
They began popping up around tribal reservations in the Southwest a few years ago, trolling through alleys and parking lots on a hunt for new business. They approached anyone who looked homeless or intoxicated with an alluring pitch: Get in, and we'll give you shelter, sobriety and a better life.
Monica Antonio, 21, was one of thousands of people who leaped at the chance. She had been desperate to stop drinking for her three young children, her family said. But the San Carlos Apache Reservation in rural eastern Arizona, where she lived, had limited resources for drug or alcohol treatment. So last January, a van whisked her 130 miles to one of hundreds of sober-living houses that have proliferated around Phoenix in recent years, with little oversight or control.
She did well at first, earning a 30-day sobriety certificate, but friends and family said they started to worry when Ms. Antonio posted online photos showing drinking and drug use inside her sober-living home. They said she started to slip.
"I told her, 'Monica, you're supposed to be sobering up, don't you have rules?"' said her grandmother, Vernadell Johnson. "She said no."
She had tumbled into what prosecutors and tribal leaders call one of the largest, most exploitative frauds in Arizona's history -- a scheme in which hundreds of rehab centers provided shoddy or nonexistent addiction treatment to thousands of vulnerable Native Americans that cost the state as much as $ 1 billion. Scores of people ended up homeless, still struggling with untreated addiction, officials say.
In the grimmest cases, tribal members died of overdoses inside the sober homes where they had sought help.
Navajo activists in Phoenix, who first alerted authorities more than a year ago to problems inside the sober-living homes, say they have tracked the deaths of at least 40 Native Americans who had been at these homes. Some died while they were still patients; some overdosed on buses or the streets after fleeing or getting kicked out. Others ended up homeless in Phoenix and died of heat exposure or were hit by cars.
"It's one of the greatest failures of Arizona government ever," said Attorney General Kris Mayes, who, along with Gov. Katie Hobbs, announced a crackdown against the treatment centers earlier this year.
Ms. Mayes said the treatment centers operated largely unchecked for years, taking advantage of gaps in an Arizona program that funds health care for low-income tribal members. The schemes exploited overlapping American woes -- addiction, soaring homelessness and a long history of disregard for Native American health.
Operators set up companies with names like Healing Fountain, Happy Valley or Angelic Behavioral Health, registered with the state as counseling centers and behavioral health residential facilities, and placed them in subdivisions where small-scale investors have snapped up homes as rental properties.
They began running up huge bills, Arizona authorities say. One business billed the state thousands, purportedly to treat a 4-year-old for alcohol addiction. Another charged $ 1.2 million to treat a parent and two young children for a year.
Similar frauds have occurred in Nevada, Georgia and Texas, Ms. Mayes said, though on a smaller scale.
The money Arizona paid out to these programs through its Medicaid system exploded over the past four years, from $ 53 million in 2019 to $ 668 million last year. Officials said they do not know how much of that was for legitimate treatment, and how much was fraud.
"It's scary that this is happening in the middle of America," said President Buu Nygren of the Navajo Nation, which declared a public health emergency over the fraud.
State officials said the Medicaid fund for Native American treatment amounted to a virtually unguarded pool of money that was poorly regulated and easily exploited. They have since tightened their rules and shut off the unlimited supply of money.
Reva Stewart, a Navajo activist working with families to find their relatives, said some fraudulent homes are still operating and people are still being recruited. "It's really frustrating," she said.
State officials say they are continuing to investigate.
Arizona has suspended more than 300 treatment businesses -- including the company that ran the home where Ms. Antonio stayed. It has charged more than 40 people with defrauding taxpayers by running up huge bills through Arizona's American Indian Health Program, which is part of its Medicaid system.
The F.B.I. and federal prosecutors are investigating. In July, a woman from Mesa., Ariz., became one of the first people convicted after she pleaded guilty to federal charges of money laundering and wire fraud. Prosecutors say she was an owner of two treatment companies that received $ 22 million. According to court documents, she spent the money on four Mercedes-Benz cars, homes in Las Vegas and Arizona, diamond necklaces and a showroom's worth of Gucci, Versace and Louis Vuitton bags.
Tribal leaders and more than a dozen former patients said that the human toll of the scheme was far worse and larger than any financial loss.
People who traveled from as far as Montana and the Dakotas described Arizona's sober-living providers as slapdash operations where drugs and alcohol were plentiful, but actual help was scarce. Some homes were well kept while others were furnished only with mattresses and a few boxes of macaroni and cheese.
"It was so empty and depressing," said Cydney Smith, a San Carlos Apache member who lived in a residential facility last year. "The door was broken. No bed. People were coming in and doing drugs."
According to interviews with activists, former patients and Arizona officials, the small staffs who ran the homes made little effort to help people stay sober, and in some cases fostered their addiction. The white vans sometimes stopped at liquor stores on the way to Phoenix to ply people with alcohol.
Some homes conducted regular drug tests and had zero tolerance. Others looked the other way while people smoked meth and drank in their bedrooms, former residents said.
"There were fights, there were drugs, there was alcohol in these homes," said State Senator Theresa Hatathlie, a Navajo citizen who says she tried for years to get regulators to shut down the unlicensed sober-living houses. "There was no enforcement. The idea seems like: Let's keep them drunk, keep them using. The longer they stay, the more money."
It was a volume business, and the operators paid residents to recruit friends and family as new patients.
Several tribal members said they never spoke with any counselors or addiction experts. Instead, they were shuttled to group rehab sessions, where the only requirement was that they sign in and provide their tribal identification numbers so providers could start billing.
Often, patients decided to leave the homes or were evicted when the treatment centers abruptly shuttered. This left them on the street, stranded hundreds of miles from family with no money and no way to call home.
Joryan Polk, 22, a member of the San Carlos Apache Tribe, had grown so despondent during his drug treatment program that he called his mother to say that no one was listening or helping, his mother said. He was found dead and face down in his bedroom last January after overdosing on meth and fentanyl. Residents at the home told a police officer that nobody had checked on Mr. Polk for about two days, according to a police report.
The facility where he had been receiving care, Empire Wellness, was suspended in July for billing issues, according to state officials. State officials have declined to provide details about the investigation into the business; the facility's owner did not answer questions about the investigation.
Daniel Fallah, the owner, said that he had tried to help Mr. Polk get off drugs and that his company regularly did drug screenings and did not allow its patients to use. He said there were staff members inside the home to monitor residents.
"Everybody's a grown-up," he said, in an interview before the business was suspended. "People make choices."
Police reports and autopsies chronicling several deaths have ruled them to be accidents, and state officials have not filed criminal charges relating to any deaths. Several families said they were desperate for answers or some accountability, but had not been able to find lawyers to file lawsuits or even reach the people behind the now-suspended companies that ran the treatment centers.
Friends and relatives of Ms. Antonio, the patient from the San Carlos Apache Reservation, said they were still trying to unravel what happened to her.
One night in late March, Ms. Antonio and a friend left her sober-living home and drank at a small park in a gated community in southwest Phoenix, according to a police report. She was left lying by the front door, where a staff member found Ms. Antonio on the ground holding a can of alcohol, the report said. The staff member let Ms. Antonio into the house, but did not call for medical help.
She was found dead on her mattress the next morning. An autopsy found she had died of alcohol poisoning. Tessie Dillon, one of Ms. Antonio's aunts, said the family rushed from the San Carlos reservation to Phoenix. She said the sober-living home reeked of alcohol, and that Ms. Antonio's bedroom had little else than a thin mattress and her clothes piled in the closet.
Ms. Dillon said Ms. Antonio's three children, who are now 8, 7 and 5 years old, still ask for their mother. She still has questions about why nobody checked on Ms. Antonio the night she died, why she was simply put to bed. Officials for the business, which was suspended by the state, did not respond to a request for comment.
An administrator from the treatment business did promise to pay Ms. Antonio's $ 5,000 funeral bill, Ms. Dillon said.
"We sent them the invoice," she said. "Nothing."
Photograph Vernadell Johnson, the grandmother of Monica Antonio, at her grave in Bylas, Ariz. "I told her, 'Monica, you're supposed to be sobering up. Don't you have rules?"'; Ms. Antonio, above, in a photo provided by her family. The house where the 21-year-old mother of three died in Phoenix, left, immediately behind the near lamp post. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MINESH BACRANIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A13.

Subject: Automobiles; Drug overdose; Medicaid; Addictions; Criminal investigations; Alcoholism; Homeless people; Native North Americans; Substance abuse treatment; Fraud; Public prosecutors

Business indexing term: Subject: Medicaid

Location: United States--US; Arizona

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/11/us/arizona-native-american-addiction.html

Title: Plan to Help Native Americans Get Sober Ended in a Nightmare:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 13, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2889143341

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/plan-help-native-americans-get-sober-ended/docview/2889143341/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Wanted to Get Sober. They Got a Nightmare Instead.

Author: Healy, Jack

Publication info: Healy, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-wanted-get-sober-got-nightmare-instead/docview/2889087351/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BYLAS, Ariz. — The white vans were the first thing people noticed.
They began popping up around tribal reservations in the Southwest a few years ago, trolling through alleys and parking lots on a hunt for new business. They approached anyone who looked homeless or intoxicated with an alluring pitch: Get in, and we’ll give you shelter, sobriety and a better life.
Monica Antonio, 21, was one of thousands of people who leaped at the chance. She had been desperate to stop drinking for her three young children, her family said. But the San Carlos Apache Reservation in rural eastern Arizona, where she lived, had limited resources for drug or alcohol treatment. So last January, a van whisked her 130 miles to one of hundreds of sober-living houses that have proliferated around Phoenix in recent years, with little oversight or control.
She did well at first, earning a 30-day sobriety certificate, but friends and family said they started to worry when Antonio posted online photos showing drinking and drug use inside her sober-living home. They said she started to slip.
“I told her, ‘Monica, you’re supposed to be sobering up, don’t you have rules?’” said her grandmother, Vernadell Johnson. “She said no.”
She had tumbled into what prosecutors and tribal leaders call one of the largest, most exploitative frauds in Arizona’s history — a scheme in which hundreds of rehab centers provided shoddy or nonexistent addiction treatment to thousands of vulnerable Native Americans that cost the state as much as $1 billion. Scores of people ended up homeless, still struggling with untreated addiction, officials say.
In the grimmest cases, tribal members died of overdoses inside the sober homes where they had sought help.
Navajo activists in Phoenix, who first alerted authorities more than a year ago to problems inside the sober-living homes, say they have tracked the deaths of at least 40 Native Americans who had been at these homes. Some died while they were still patients; some overdosed on buses or the streets after fleeing or getting kicked out. Others ended up homeless in Phoenix and died of heat exposure or were hit by cars.
“It’s one of the greatest failures of Arizona government ever,” said Attorney General Kris Mayes, who, along with Gov. Katie Hobbs, announced a crackdown against the treatment centers earlier this year.
Mayes said the treatment centers operated largely unchecked for years, taking advantage of gaps in an Arizona program that funds health care for low-income tribal members. The schemes exploited overlapping American woes — addiction, soaring homelessness and a long history of disregard for Native American health.
Operators set up companies with names like Healing Fountain, Happy Valley or Angelic Behavioral Health, registered with the state as counseling centers and behavioral health residential facilities, and placed them in subdivisions where small-scale investors have snapped up homes as rental properties.
They began running up huge bills, Arizona authorities say. One business billed the state thousands, purportedly to treat a 4-year-old for alcohol addiction. Another charged $1.2 million to treat a parent and two young children for a year.
Similar frauds have occurred in Nevada, Georgia and Texas, Mayes said, though on a smaller scale.
The money Arizona paid out to these programs through its Medicaid system exploded over the past four years, from $53 million in 2019 to $668 million last year. Officials said they do not know how much of that was for legitimate treatment, and how much was fraud.
“It’s scary that this is happening in the middle of America,” said President Buu Nygren of the Navajo Nation, which declared a public health emergency over the fraud.
State officials said the Medicaid fund for Native American treatment amounted to a virtually unguarded pool of money that was poorly regulated and easily exploited. They have since tightened their rules and shut off the unlimited supply of money.
Reva Stewart, a Navajo activist working with families to find their relatives, said some fraudulent homes are still operating and people are still being recruited. “It’s really frustrating,” she said.
State officials say they are continuing to investigate.
Arizona has suspended more than 300 treatment businesses — including the company that ran the home where Antonio stayed. It has charged more than 40 people with defrauding taxpayers by running up huge bills through Arizona’s American Indian Health Program, which is part of its Medicaid system.
The FBI and federal prosecutors are investigating. In July, a woman from Mesa, Arizona, became one of the first people convicted after she pleaded guilty to federal charges of money laundering and wire fraud. Prosecutors say she was an owner of two treatment companies that received $22 million. According to court documents, she spent the money on four Mercedes-Benz cars, homes in Las Vegas and Arizona, diamond necklaces and a showroom’s worth of Gucci, Versace and Louis Vuitton bags.
Tribal leaders and more than a dozen former patients said that the human toll of the scheme was far worse and larger than any financial loss.
People who traveled from as far as Montana and the Dakotas described Arizona’s sober-living providers as slapdash operations where drugs and alcohol were plentiful, but actual help was scarce. Some homes were well kept while others were furnished only with mattresses and a few boxes of macaroni and cheese.
“It was so empty and depressing,” said Cydney Smith, a San Carlos Apache member who lived in a residential facility last year. “The door was broken. No bed. People were coming in and doing drugs.”
According to interviews with activists, former patients and Arizona officials, the small staffs who ran the homes made little effort to help people stay sober, and in some cases fostered their addiction. The white vans sometimes stopped at liquor stores on the way to Phoenix to ply people with alcohol.
Some homes conducted regular drug tests and had zero tolerance. Others looked the other way while people smoked meth and drank in their bedrooms, former residents said.
“There were fights, there were drugs, there was alcohol in these homes,” said state Sen. Theresa Hatathlie, a Navajo citizen who says she tried for years to get regulators to shut down the unlicensed sober-living houses. “There was no enforcement. The idea seems like: Let’s keep them drunk, keep them using. The longer they stay, the more money.”
It was a volume business, and the operators paid residents to recruit friends and family as new patients.
Several tribal members said they never spoke with any counselors or addiction experts. Instead, they were shuttled to group rehab sessions, where the only requirement was that they sign in and provide their tribal identification numbers so providers could start billing.
Often, patients decided to leave the homes or were evicted when the treatment centers abruptly shuttered. This left them on the street, stranded hundreds of miles from family with no money and no way to call home.
Joryan Polk, 22, a member of the San Carlos Apache Tribe, had grown so despondent during his drug treatment program that he called his mother to say that no one was listening or helping, his mother said. He was found dead and facedown in his bedroom last January after overdosing on meth and fentanyl. Residents at the home told a police officer that nobody had checked on Polk for about two days, according to a police report.
The facility where he had been receiving care, Empire Wellness, was suspended in July for billing issues, according to state officials. State officials have declined to provide details about the investigation into the business; the facility’s owner did not answer questions about the investigation.
Daniel Fallah, the owner, said that he had tried to help Polk get off drugs and that his company regularly did drug screenings and did not allow its patients to use. He said there were staff members inside the home to monitor residents.
“Everybody’s a grown-up,” he said, in an interview before the business was suspended. “People make choices.”
Police reports and autopsies chronicling several deaths have ruled them to be accidents, and state officials have not filed criminal charges relating to any deaths. Several families said they were desperate for answers or some accountability, but had not been able to find lawyers to file lawsuits or even reach the people behind the now-suspended companies that ran the treatment centers.
Friends and relatives of Antonio, the patient from the San Carlos Apache Reservation, said they were still trying to unravel what happened to her.
One night in late March, Antonio and a friend left her sober-living home and drank at a small park in a gated community in southwest Phoenix, according to a police report. She was left lying by the front door, where a staff member found Antonio on the ground holding a can of alcohol, the report said. The staff member let Antonio into the house but did not call for medical help.
She was found dead on her mattress the next morning. An autopsy found she had died of alcohol poisoning. Tessie Dillon, one of Antonio’s aunts, said the family rushed from the San Carlos reservation to Phoenix. She said the sober-living home reeked of alcohol, and that Antonio’s bedroom had little else than a thin mattress and her clothes piled in the closet.
Dillon said Antonio’s three children, who are now 8, 7 and 5 years old, still ask for their mother. She still has questions about why nobody checked on Antonio the night she died, why she was simply put to bed. Officials for the business, which was suspended by the state, did not respond to a request for comment.
An administrator from the treatment business did promise to pay Antonio’s $5,000 funeral bill, Dillon said.
“We sent them the invoice,” she said. “Nothing.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobiles; Drug overdose; Alcohol; Medicaid; Addictions; Criminal investigations; Homeless people; Native North Americans; Fraud; Public prosecutors

Business indexing term: Subject: Medicaid

Location: United States--US; Arizona

Identifier / keyword: Medicine And Health; School Discipline (Students); United States; Records And Achievements; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Medicaid; Therapy And Rehabilitation; Us Dollar (Currency); Montana; Mayes, Kristin; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Alcohol Abuse; Deaths (Obituaries); Arizona; Nevada; Income; Georgia; Corporations; Youth; Healy, Jack; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Navajo Indians; Automobiles; Race And Ethnicity; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Police; Closets; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Phoenix (Ariz); Health Insurance And Managed Care; Jewels And Jewelry; Decisions And Verdicts; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Texas; Southwestern States (Us); Frauds And Swindling; Mercedes Benz; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Native Americans; Drunken And Reckless Driving; Money Laundering; Apache Indians; Deaths (Fatalities); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); States (Us); Income Inequality; Methamphetamines; Hobbs, Kathleen M; Las Vegas (Nev); Poverty; Mesa (Ariz); Names, Organizational; Addiction (Psychology)

Title: They Wanted to Get Sober. They Got a Nightmare Instead.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-12T22:32:27Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2889087351

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-wanted-get-sober-got-nightmare-instead/docview/2889087351/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

To Understand Luxury Economics, Study Psychology: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/understand-luxury-economics-study-psychology/docview/2888773636/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The exorbitant cost of luxury fashion has left us out in the cold, wondering who can sustain this market?
Historically, luxury fashion brands have enjoyed strong pricing power, meaning that they can apply considerable increases without necessarily losing customers. But in 2023, price tags hit eye-watering highs -- and there has been no sign of the trend slowing.
According to the data company EDITED, average luxury prices are up by 25 percent since 2019. Many brands attribute their increases to everything from inflation and the balancing out of regional price disparities to the fallout of the pandemic and impact of the war in Ukraine. But for many luxury fashion brands, the uptick has been taking place over a longer timeline.
Take Chanel, where handbag prices have more than doubled since 2016. The auction house Sotheby's found a classic 2.55 Chanel bag sold for around $ 1,650 in 2008. In 2023, that figure from Chanel is closer to $ 10,200. (If the cost had risen in line with inflation over the 15-year period, it would be expected to cost $ 2,359). This week, Pharrell Williams, the men's creative director at Vuitton, unveiled the label's new Millionaire Speedy Bag. The crocodile hide bag is made-to-order, costs a cool million and has a distinctly Scrooge McDuck aura.
"Industrywide, the pricing has gotten truly absurd," the influencer Bryan Yambao noted in an Instagram post this week when discussing a $ 6,000 woolen Miu Miu coat. "I do think this is a good time for most brands to lower their prices."
In the past year there have been signs that so-called aspirational customers, who buy entry-level luxury products like cosmetics and spirits, have curbed their spending. Middle class professionals who once saved up for a luxury investment handbag or coat have been aggressively priced out.
So who is spending $ 3,000 on a knit hat shaped like a duck from the British brand Burberry? What about $ 24,500 on a vicuña jacket by Brunello Cucinelli? Or $ 1,250 on a white cotton shirt by The Row?
The answer is the 1 percent, obviously (or those willing to incur credit card debt). Luca Solca, an analyst for Bernstein, estimates that the top 5 percent of luxury clients now account for more than 40 percent of sales for most luxury goods brands. As wealth inequality increases globally, luxury brands are doubling down on an ever smaller slice of their clientele. Will this strategy work? Or is there a backlash brewing which might force the luxury pricing bubble to burst?
The below discussion among Style journalists has been edited and condensed.
Elizabeth Paton To many people, luxury price tags have always been absurd and almost amoral. And prices in luxury fashion keep going up, and up, and up. Does it matter to customers?
Vanessa Friedman The high prices of Phoebe Philo's new line certainly struck a nerve, despite the fact they are actually at the lower end of the luxury market. It made me wonder why it was the Philo line that sparked such outrage.
Stella Bugbee It's rare to see a collection for the first time and be simultaneously confronted by the prices. We go to fashion shows and admire or critique them on a conceptual level, but often what we see on the runway doesn't make it to the store. It was also more expensive than the old Celine.
VF Although, almost everything "luxury" (including new Celine) is now more expensive than old Celine. Also, perhaps, because Phoebe has become such a mythic, fashion-savior-of-women, rightly or wrongly, and we were waiting for years for her line, a fantasy arose in which she also saved more women by making her clothes available to more people. For some of her fans these prices almost seem like a betrayal.
EP The balance between accessibility and exclusivity has always been a tricky one for luxury fashion brands, especially as the sector expanded into new markets. Now, many people who might have treated themselves with a bag are tightening their belts.
VF Well, the 1 percent are the target market for high fashion. The rest of us are left with perfume and lipstick.
EP Right, but a certain type of professional used to feel like they could save for a special piece. A Burberry raincoat. A Gucci handbag. Those are out of range for nearly everyone now.
Guy Trebay Don't forget about credit card debt, which the Federal Reserve currently pegs at over $ 1 trillion.
SB The resale economy has also changed the calculus. You can get all of those things secondhand, not long after they sell for full price.
EP And if they are hot enough items, they can sell for even more than full price! Like an Hermès Birkin for example.
VF There's a sort of warring imperative here between people who see it as a badge of honor not to buy full price and those who belong to the very tiny club that can. Economics are involved, but as much as anything, it's also psychology.
EP Resale is also a good barometer for whether pricing strategies are working. Chanel and Hermès drive the top of the resale market. More trend-driven high-fashion houses -- who have been raising their prices -- don't fare so well. If there is a market correction, it will be more directed toward brands where people take a loss on products they want to sell on the secondary market.
Jessica Testa I know of at least one resale website, the Paris-based ReSee, where Philo-era Celine is the third most popular brand, below Chanel and Hermès. And there are several independent sellers on Instagram dedicated exclusively to selling Philo-era Celine designs, fetching prices above what they cost at retail 10 years ago. There are people who spend years hunting eBay for one specific product in their size.
VF Which brings me back to Phoebe Philo's current scarcity model: We don't even know how much of any piece they produced (the company wouldn't say) but the message is the market will bear the prices, since the products are sold out. We think because it is more expensive, it has more value.
GT This is the stuff for which Daniel Kahneman won the Nobel. Subjects shown two identical cashmere sweaters, one at a far higher price, inevitably chose the more costly of the two. His point was that we don't think. We act irrationally.
VF I go back to the idea of betrayal. Because so many women relate to Phoebe Philo as a person, or at least the idea of Phoebe and what her work once represented, they felt excluded or ill-served by the pricing of her new line. They cared deeply about what she was going to make, and then it seemed as if she didn't really care at all about including them.
EP Also that Phoebe -- and the powers that be in luxury -- spent a considerable period courting aspirational audiences. It's just now they're pulling the drawbridge up. Fashion is always at risk of looking out of touch with the wider world, and certain items that seem to have gone viral on social in recent months -- like the Burberry duck hat -- triggered particular wrath, more so than usual.
VF Burberry is also selling a $ 21,000 viscose dress with a Burberry knight riding across the front.
GT Better at that point to pin dollar bills to your chest.
EP Speaking of dollars, a quarter of a trillion them have been wiped off the value of Europe's seven biggest luxury businesses since April, and sales are generally down across most fashion groups. That is the aspirational middle class stepping away from the credit card machine.
JT My pet peeve is when high-end brands collaborate with mass-market brands and yet the pricing doesn't even meet in the middle -- it's still $ 900.
EP Like the recent Banana Republic collaboration with Peter Do.
GT And that's relatively new. By contrast, there were the wonderful and completely affordable collabs Jil Sander, Tomas Maier and others did with Uniqlo.
JT Guy Trebay may have complimented my Clare Waight Keller Uniqlo bag a mere two days ago, folks.
EP The collabs do occasionally have some treasures!
VF In a sense they give the luxury brands an excuse for their pricing, because they can say, "Well, but we did this or that mass market collab."
EP I agree and I don't think we will see this approach by the luxury powers changing anytime soon. The bubble doesn't seem to be bursting -- yet.
Photograph Burberry's knit duck hat costs thousands of dollars. It's just one of many recent luxury items with eye-popping price tags. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Prices; Middle class; Collaboration; Credit cards

Business indexing term: Subject: Credit cards

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/07/style/luxury-fashion-brands-prices.html

Title: To Understand Luxury Economics, Study Psychology:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 12, 2023

column: Styles Group Chat

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2888773636

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/understand-luxury-economics-study-psychology/docview/2888773636/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Proposal To Fix Housing That Already Inspired a Cult: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Dougherty, Conor

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/proposal-fix-housing-that-already-inspired-cult/docview/2888773601/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Mayor Mike Duggan talks about his accomplishments in Detroit, the list is both impressive and sad. He had the streetlights turned back on, and reopened closed parks. In the decade since he took office, the city has demolished some 25,000 blighted homes whose rusty debris and incubation of crime drag down neighborhoods.
The progress would be even greater, the mayor argues, if the city hadn't been smothered by speculation. In the years after the Great Recession, tens of thousands of Detroit properties were bought by absentee landlords and faceless LLCs. The owners are so negligent and hard to find that the city mows their lawns without asking.
Mr. Duggan gets angry discussing the subject. In speeches and community meetings, he paints a stark, moralized contrast between the businesses that invest in jobs and the sit-and-wait landowners whose paydays rely on others' efforts.
"Blight is rewarded, building is punished," he said in a recent speech, repeating it over and over for emphasis.
The refrain is a windup for Mr. Duggan's scheme to fix the blight: a new tax plan that would raise rates on land and lower them on occupied structures. Slap the empty parcels with higher taxes, the argument goes, and their owners will be forced to develop them into something useful. In the meantime, homeowners who actually live in the city will be rewarded with lower bills.
"The phrase we use is 'Land should eat,"' Mr. Duggan, 65, said in a recent interview at his office.
Seemingly without knowing it, Mr. Duggan, a Democrat in his third term, was espousing what generations of policy minds consider one of the best ideas nobody will listen to: the land-value tax.
The notion that land is an undertaxed resource -- and that this distorts markets in destructive ways -- unites libertarians and socialists, has brought business owners together with labor groups and is lauded by economists as a "perfect tax." And yet despite all that agreement, there are just a handful of examples of this policy in action, and none in America that match the Detroit proposal in scale.
This is at least in part because the land-value tax has historically been associated with Georgism, an ideology whose adherents are regarded as the tinfoil-hat-wearers of economics. Strict Georgists don't just believe land-value taxes are a good idea; they believe that if America were to throw out all taxes, then replace them with a single land-value tax, it would end poverty and recessions for good.
The fundamentalist version of Georgism, like the fundamentalist version of anything, is plainly unrealistic. But the broader Georgist framework is full of insights about urban economies and how to improve them.
Over the past year, Daryl Fairweather, chief economist at the real-estate brokerage Redfin and one of the most widely quoted voices on the housing market, has become one of the land-value tax's most outspoken advocates. She trumpets the policy on podcasts, headlines panels with names like "the tax policy that can fix housing" and tweets memes of President Biden in front a whiteboard with the words "land-value tax" on it.
In an interview, Ms. Fairweather said she did not consider herself a Georgist, single tax and all that, but said land-value taxes were so smart that one of her favorite parts of arguing for them was they allowed her to "always be right." They encourage housing development instead of discouraging it, she noted. They don't discourage work or investment, like taxes on income and capital gains. They're also hard to dodge, since land is hard to move.
"It's like there's this tool in our toolbox that could help solve a lot of our problems, and we refuse to pick it up," Ms. Fairweather said in an interview. "If more people understood how useful this was, they would advocate it."
Strong feelings about land taxes are something the American public used to have. Georgism gets its name from Henry George, who in the 1890s turned a book, "Progress and Poverty," into a populist movement. George's argument was that since land derives most of its worth from its location and the surrounding community, that community, and not the owner, should realize most of the benefits when values rise. His fix might sound wonky -- tax the value of land but not improvements atop it -- but it made him a celebrity in the 1890s.
There used to be Georgist newspapers. There are still Georgist foundations, Georgist conferences and Georgist schools. If you've ever played Monopoly, you have been unwittingly George-pilled: A Henry George fan invented the board game, in hopes of spreading his teachings.
Over the past few decades, as Georgism has faded from a mass movement to a relic, the ideology has been carried on by clubs and nonprofits whose dwindling membership was mostly composed of old men.
But amid a continuing crisis in affordable housing, a generation of young professionals has burrowed into housing policy, and gotten interested in the YIMBY movement, for Yes in My Backyard, that advocates for denser neighborhoods and zoning changes. As YIMBYs have grown from a curiosity to a legislative force, a subset of them and others who are angry about the cost of living have discovered Georgism. Suddenly there are organizations like Young Georgists of America, modern-day pamphlets like the Henry George podcast and the Progress and Poverty Substack, and an agreement that the shoshinsha emoji (which looks like a shield) is how Georgists will identify themselves online.
Young and old, Georgists come across as both radical and refreshingly pragmatic. They are interested in a specific problem: the cost of land and housing. But they embed that within a worldview that seeks to balance morality with commercial growth and rejects off-the-shelf -isms (capitalism, socialism, libertarianism) as unsatisfying or incomplete. Most are progressive liberals, while some lean libertarian. Their desire for an alternative makes them sound rational in some cases (land-value taxation is a good idea) and bizarre in others (we should get rid of every other tax).
Mayor Duggan knew none of this. When I asked him if he'd heard of Henry George at the beginning of our interview, his answer was "nope." He was surprised to learn that he had become something of a Georgist hero, and that his plan was being cheered as a step toward restoring Georgism to the American conscience.
"This isn't any deep philosophical movement," Mr. Duggan said. "I'm trying to cut taxes."
'You Are Welcome Hither'
Driving along woodsy back roads in a Model A Ford, Mike Curtis, an 81-year-old retired arborist, seemed to be winding through a portal to the Georgist past. A third-generation member of the movement, Mr. Curtis used to work at the Henry George School in Philadelphia and lives in the Village of Arden, in Delaware, a sort of Henry George colony founded in 1900. (The motto is "You Are Welcome Hither.")
The drive was the final leg in a morning-to-afternoon tour that included a stop by the Henry George Memorial Green and a walk through the outdoor theater where village founders staged Shakespeare plays. ("They figured if you could be comfortable onstage and project your voice to a crowd, what better way to prep yourself to talk about Henry George?" a guide informed me.) We ended at Mr. Curtis's house, where the décor has a theme: There are single-tax posters, a Henry George light switch, Henry George quotes, Henry George mugs and a shelf of home videos with titles like "Law of Rent," "3 Land Value Tax Movies" and "Taxes-Taxes-Taxes."
Born in 1839 in Philadelphia, George -- a self-made man without a formal degree in economics -- started his swashbuckling career when he left home as a teenager to work on a ship headed to India. He acquired a pet monkey at port and returned home with scenes of poverty seared into his brain. ("One feature, which is peculiar to Calcutta, was the number of dead bodies floating down in all stages of decomposition," he wrote in a journal.) What he saw in India helped inspire his theories on growth, but it wasn't until George sailed to California -- where, after brief run of gold prospecting, he settled in San Francisco and became a journalist -- that these ideas found their full expression.
The central question of George's writing was why rich cities seemed to create poverty instead of ameliorating it. In "Progress and Poverty," published in 1879, George blamed rising land values and laid out the single-tax proposal as a cure-all.
Henry George did not invent land-value taxation, but he unquestionably was the idea's greatest popularizer. With mix of wit and fury, and a whole bunch of exclamation points, his writing portrayed speculators as societal leeches grifting the city, profiting by doing nothing at all: "You may sit down and smoke your pipe," he wrote in "Progress and Poverty." "You may go up in a balloon, or down a hole in the ground; and without doing one stroke of work, without adding one iota to the wealth of the community, in 10 years you will be rich!"
By the end of the 19th century, George's books had sold an estimated five million copies. George returned East and used the single-tax platform to run for New York City mayor, twice. He placed second in his first campaign in 1886, then ran again in 1897 but died four days before the election.
The great trick of Georgism is that it manages to sound capitalist (just one tax!) and socialist (speculation is bad!) all at once. "Progress and Poverty" found a natural audience in an emergent class of artisans, which included printers, journalists and lawyers, who were the 19th century's version of knowledge workers, said Christopher W. England, a lecturer at Towson University in Maryland and the author of "Land & Liberty," a new book on the Georgist movement. But the movement also had wealthy adherents, like Joseph Fels, a millionaire soap manufacturer who had an obvious interest in lower taxes and was a generous funder of Georgist causes, including the Village of Arden.
Mr. Curtis's family members, while not numbered among Arden's founders, were fixtures of the movement: His grandfather worked on Henry George's 1897 mayoral campaign and was there when George died. He met Mr. Curtis's grandmother at a Georgist event, and they married on George's birthday.
"So when you say 'cult,' it was kind of like that," Mr. Curtis said.
Today, Arden is one of three neighboring villages (Arden, Ardentown, Ardencroft) that try to live by George's teachings, through a structure in which each town's land is held in a trust, and lots are leased to residents. They pay a tax on the value of their plot, but nothing on improvements.
Georgism started to fade in the 1920s as the automobile pushed down land values by stretching the limits of urban development. In the next decades, homeownership exploded into the apex symbol of a thriving middle class. The phrase "land-value tax" has come to sound suspiciously like "higher property tax," making the politics even more difficult.
Mr. Curtis has spent the better part of his life proselytizing about land taxes but lamented that even in his hometown, Arden, most people are somewhere between ignorant and indifferent to Henry George. Most of his work now occurs in a home office with five printers. That's where he runs the Henry George Academy's incarcerated student program. Mr. Curtis mails lessons based on "Progress and Poverty" to inmates in state and federal prisons, grades the papers they send back and then mails a certificate upon completion.
"When I'm gone, at least somebody will have known the thesis of Henry George," he said. "I wasn't just talking to myself."
Land Is a Big Deal
When modern Georgists describe their descent into the wormhole, the journey sounds like a healthier, nerdier version of the route to QAnon. "I think one day I just typed 'Why do the suburbs suck?' into Google," said Nia Johnson, a 29-year-old consultant focused on start-ups and consumer technology.
The Googling led to a TED Talk on suburban design, she said, which led to urbanism Twitter, and to following various YIMBY accounts. She started tweeting about zoning policy, and then one day a social media follower said she sounded like a Georgist, which led to another Google search.
"And I was like, 'Oh, my God, yes,"' Ms. Johnson said. "Once you learn about it and understand it, you see how every almost everything about our economy and our society that is crappy can be attributed in some way to poor land use."
Ms. Johnson, like many of the new Georgists, fits a certain archetype: She's young and loves cities, but she wishes they were less expensive to live in.
For her, Georgism isn't a full platform -- Ms. Johnson, like Ms. Fairweather of Redfin and most of their cohort, doesn't believe in a single tax, for instance. Instead, it represents her aspiration for something different: better housing policy, and the idea that social welfare and market capitalism don't have to be in opposition.
Like a lot of the new Georgists I spoke to, Ms. Johnson discovered Georgist ideas during the pandemic, which seems to have been an ideal vector for the ideology's spread: There was an audience of professionals with high rent, stuck inside, watching home prices soar, with the time to go deep on a 19th-century thinker. In 2020, Astral Codex Ten, the futurism blog widely read in Silicon Valley circles, published a series of guest blog posts on Georgism that were so popular they were compiled into a book, "Land Is a Big Deal."
From Delaware to California, every Georgist I talked to was closely following Detroit. Mr. Duggan's proposal, while a long way from full-blown Georgism, represents something the movement hasn't had much of: the hope of a real-world victory and a chance to show how land-value taxes can solve an actual problem -- in this case, blight.
Detroit, for all its problems, is more hopeful today than it has been in decades. Will it ever again be the Detroit of the 1950s? Probably not. But to someone walking around downtown, past new cranes, new restaurants and a new Gucci store, it's clear that the nadir of the Great Recession is comfortably in the past.
The problem is that in the years after the downturn, investors bought large swaths of the city and have mostly just sat on it.
From 2011 to 2015, about 100,000 properties -- more than a quarter of the Detroit lots -- were auctioned in tax foreclosures, according to Regrid, a Detroit-based provider of parcel data nationally. They weigh on the city's progress and produce a stream of sad stories, like the one about a grandmother who was evicted from her home and moved to a van across the street, but continued to mow the lawn because she cared about the neighborhood.
Mr. Duggan refers to vacant properties as "lottery tickets." They can be bought for little and held for little -- some lots have taxes as low as $ 30 per year -- but have a huge potential payoff, usually because someone else wants to invest. (Speculators recently made money after the city bought out vacant lots to help revive an auto plant that would bring jobs to the area.)
Problems like this are what helped spur interest in a new tax scheme. An early advocate for Detroit's plan was Nick Allen, now a 32-year-old graduate student in urban planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who worked for a city economic development agency from 2017 to 2019. Mr. Allen said his main project at the agency was finding new ways to stimulate growth that didn't rely on grants and tax breaks. After reading "Progress and Poverty" years earlier, he'd become obsessed with the problem of speculation, and suggested a land-value tax. (Mr. Allen said he had never mentioned Henry George to the mayor because "the idea survives on its own without having to go back to 1879.")
So instead of citing a dusty text, Mr. Duggan's speeches on the land-value tax feature the politically salient image of homeowners with lovely gardens who pay more in property taxes than the vacant apartment building next door. A tax break for residents -- paid for by nameless investors who are "taking advantage of the city" -- would seem like a political layup.
But he needs state approval to do it, and lawmakers have been skeptical. This year, Michigan legislators debated a bill that would allow the mayor's plan to go forward, but the measure was tabled until next year. Even if the bill passes, Detroit voters would then have to approve it. It's a lot of ifs.
However it goes, the question for Georgists is whether Detroit is a particular city with a particular problem or the opening salvo in a larger conversation.
Most of the new Georgists I spoke to were concentrated in and around high-cost cities whose housing problems stem from a lack of supply -- that is, basically, the opposite of Detroit.
When Mayor Duggan says "land tax," he means encouraging growth on empty parcels and a tax cut for homeowners. When Mark Mollineaux, a 38-year-old engineer in Silicon Valley, says "land tax," he is pointing to $ 3 million bungalows in Palo Alto and his wish that they could be replaced with denser housing or at least had higher taxes. In other words, in a depressed city, homeowners are victims; in rich ones, they're the enemy.
"These homeowners have a land value of millions and they're hoarding it," Mr. Mollineaux, who hosts the Henry George Program, a radio show and podcast, said in an interview.
"I advocate razing Silicon Valley, socializing the land and building massive condos that are owned by the public and allocated equitably," he added. "But even a tweak would be nice."
Photograph In Detroit, top, speculators have bought large swaths of land but have not developed the parcels. The city's mayor, Mike Duggan, above, believes a land-value tax can help combat the resulting blight. Above right, vintage posters advocate a single-tax system. Top left, a plaque in Arden, Del., displays a Henry George quote on the evils of private property. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIC ANTAYA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SARAH SILBIGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6-BU7); Daryl Fairweather, below, chief economist at Redfin, trumpets the land-value tax on podcasts and panels. Mike Curtis, bottom, a third-generation member of the Georgist movement, lives in Arden, Del., a longstanding Georgist colony. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MIYAZAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SARAH SILBIGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU6, BU7.

Subject: Taxation; Taxes; Neighborhood blight

Business indexing term: Subject: Taxation Taxes

Location: United States--US; India; Detroit Michigan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/11/business/georgism-land-tax-housing.html

Title: A Proposal To Fix Housing That Already Inspired a Cult:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 12, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2888773601

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/proposal-fix-housing-that-already-inspired-cult/docview/2888773601/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The ‘Georgists’ Are Out There, and They Want to Tax Your Land

Author: Dougherty, Conor

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/georgists-are-out-there-they-want-tax-your-land/docview/2888635142/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan talks about his accomplishments in the city, the list is both impressive and sad. He had the streetlights turned back on and reopened closed parks. In the decade since he took office, the city has demolished about 25,000 blighted homes whose rusty debris and incubation of crime drag down neighborhoods.
The progress would be even greater, the mayor argues, if the city hadn’t been smothered by speculation. In the years after the Great Recession, tens of thousands of Detroit properties were bought by absentee landlords and faceless LLCs. The owners are so negligent and hard to find that the city mows their lawns without asking.
Duggan gets angry discussing the subject. In speeches and community meetings, he paints a stark, moralized contrast between the businesses that invest in jobs and the sit-and-wait landowners whose paydays rely on others’ efforts.
“Blight is rewarded, building is punished,” he said in a recent speech, repeating it over and over for emphasis.
The refrain is a windup for Duggan’s scheme to fix the blight: a new tax plan that would raise rates on land and lower them on occupied structures. Slap the empty parcels with higher taxes, the argument goes, and their owners will be forced to develop them into something useful. In the meantime, homeowners who actually live in the city will be rewarded with lower bills.
“The phrase we use is ‘Land should eat,’” Duggan, 65, said in a recent interview at his office.
Seemingly without knowing it, Duggan, a Democrat in his third term, was espousing what generations of policy minds consider one of the best ideas nobody will listen to: the land-value tax.
The notion that land is an undertaxed resource — and that this distorts markets in destructive ways — unites libertarians and socialists, has brought business owners together with labor groups and is lauded by economists as a “perfect tax.” And yet despite all that agreement, there are just a handful of examples of this policy in action, and none in America that match the Detroit proposal in scale.
This is at least in part because the land-value tax has historically been associated with Georgism, an ideology whose adherents are regarded as the tinfoil-hat-wearers of economics. Strict Georgists don’t just believe land-value taxes are a good idea; they believe that if America were to throw out all taxes, then replace them with a single land-value tax, it would end poverty and recessions for good.
The fundamentalist version of Georgism, like the fundamentalist version of anything, is plainly unrealistic. But the broader Georgist framework is full of insights about urban economies and how to improve them.
Over the past year, Daryl Fairweather, chief economist at the real estate brokerage Redfin and one of the most widely quoted voices on the housing market, has become one of the land-value tax’s most outspoken advocates. She trumpets the policy on podcasts, headlines panels with names such as “the tax policy that can fix housing” and tweets memes of President Joe Biden in front of a whiteboard with the words “land-value tax” on it.
In an interview, Fairweather said she did not consider herself a Georgist, single tax and all that, but said land-value taxes were so smart that one of her favorite parts of arguing for them was they allowed her to “always be right.” They encourage housing development instead of discouraging it, she noted. They don’t discourage work or investment, like taxes on income and capital gains. They’re also hard to dodge, since land is hard to move.
“It’s like there’s this tool in our toolbox that could help solve a lot of our problems, and we refuse to pick it up,” Fairweather said. “If more people understood how useful this was, they would advocate it.”
Strong feelings about land taxes are something the American public used to have. Georgism gets its name from Henry George, who in the 1890s turned a book, “Progress and Poverty” (1879), into a populist movement. George’s argument was that since land derives most of its worth from its location and the surrounding community, that community, and not the owner, should realize most of the benefits when values rise. His fix might sound wonky — tax the value of land but not improvements atop it — but it made him a celebrity in the 1890s.
There used to be Georgist newspapers. There are still Georgist foundations, Georgist conferences and Georgist schools. If you’ve ever played Monopoly, you have been unwittingly George-pilled: A Henry George fan invented the board game, in hopes of spreading his teachings.
Over the past few decades, as Georgism has faded from a mass movement to a relic, the ideology has been carried on by clubs and nonprofits whose dwindling membership was composed mostly of old men.
But amid a continuing crisis in affordable housing, a generation of young professionals has burrowed into housing policy and gotten interested in the YIMBY movement — for Yes in My Backyard — that advocates for denser neighborhoods and zoning changes. As YIMBYs have grown from a curiosity to a legislative force, a subset of them and others who are angry about the cost of living have discovered Georgism. Suddenly, there are organizations such as Young Georgists of America, modern-day pamphlets such as the Henry George podcast and the Progress and Poverty Substack, and an agreement that the shoshinsha emoji (which looks like a shield) is how Georgists will identify themselves online.
Young and old, Georgists come across as both radical and refreshingly pragmatic. They are interested in a specific problem: the cost of land and housing. But they embed that within a worldview that seeks to balance morality with commercial growth and rejects off-the-shelf -isms (capitalism, socialism, libertarianism) as unsatisfying or incomplete. Most are progressive liberals, while some lean libertarian. Their desire for an alternative makes them sound rational in some cases (land-value taxation is a good idea) and bizarre in others (we should get rid of every other tax).
Duggan knew none of this. When I asked him if he had heard of Henry George at the beginning of our interview, his answer was “Nope.” He was surprised to learn that he had become something of a Georgist hero and that his plan was being cheered as a step toward restoring Georgism to the American conscience.
“This isn’t any deep philosophical movement,” Duggan said. “I’m trying to cut taxes.”
‘You Are Welcome Hither’
Driving along woodsy back roads in a Model A Ford, Mike Curtis, an 81-year-old retired arborist, seemed to be winding through a portal to the Georgist past. A third-generation member of the movement, Curtis used to work at the Henry George School in Philadelphia and lives in the Village of Arden, in Delaware, a sort of Henry George colony founded in 1900. (The motto is “You Are Welcome Hither.”)
The drive was the final leg in a morning-to-afternoon tour that included a stop by the Henry George Memorial Green and a walk through the outdoor theater where village founders staged Shakespeare plays. (“They figured if you could be comfortable onstage and project your voice to a crowd, what better way to prep yourself to talk about Henry George?” a guide informed me.) We ended at Curtis’ house, where the decor has a theme: There are single-tax posters, a Henry George light switch, Henry George quotes, Henry George mugs, and a shelf of home videos with titles such as “Law of Rent,” “3 Land Value Tax Movies” and “Taxes-Taxes-Taxes.”
Born in 1839 in Philadelphia, George — a self-made man without a formal degree in economics — started his swashbuckling career when he left home as a teenager to work on a ship headed to India. He acquired a pet monkey at port and returned home with scenes of poverty seared into his brain. (“One feature, which is peculiar to Calcutta, was the number of dead bodies floating down in all stages of decomposition,” he wrote in a journal.) What he saw in India helped inspire his theories on growth, but it wasn’t until George sailed to California — where, after a brief run of gold prospecting, he settled in San Francisco and became a journalist — that these ideas found their full expression.
The central question of George’s writing was why rich cities seemed to create poverty instead of ameliorating it. In “Progress and Poverty,” George blamed rising land values and laid out the single-tax proposal as a cure-all.
George did not invent land-value taxation, but he unquestionably was the idea’s greatest popularizer. With a mix of wit and fury, and a whole bunch of exclamation points, his writing portrayed speculators as societal leeches grifting the city, profiting by doing nothing: “You may sit down and smoke your pipe,” he wrote in “Progress and Poverty.” “You may go up in a balloon, or down a hole in the ground; and without doing one stroke of work, without adding one iota to the wealth of the community, in 10 years you will be rich!”
By the end of the 19th century, George’s books had sold an estimated 5 million copies. George returned East and used the single-tax platform to run for New York City mayor, twice. He placed second in his first campaign in 1886, then ran again in 1897 but died four days before the election.
The great trick of Georgism is that it manages to sound capitalist (just one tax!) and socialist (speculation is bad!) all at once. “Progress and Poverty” found a natural audience in an emergent class of artisans, which included printers, journalists and lawyers, who were the 19th century’s version of knowledge workers, said Christopher England, a lecturer at Towson University in Maryland and the author of “Land & Liberty,” a new book on the Georgist movement. But the movement also had wealthy adherents, including Joseph Fels, a millionaire soap manufacturer who had an obvious interest in lower taxes and was a generous funder of Georgist causes, including the Village of Arden.
Curtis’ family members, while not among Arden’s founders, were fixtures of the movement: His grandfather worked on George’s 1897 mayoral campaign and was there when George died. He met Curtis’ grandmother at a Georgist event, and they married on George’s birthday.
“So when you say ‘cult,’ it was kind of like that,” Curtis said.
Today, Arden is one of three neighboring villages (Arden, Ardentown, Ardencroft) that try to live by George’s teachings, through a structure in which each town’s land is held in a trust, and lots are leased to residents. They pay a tax on the value of their plot, but nothing on improvements.
Georgism started to fade in the 1920s as the automobile pushed down land values by stretching the limits of urban development. In the next decades, homeownership exploded into the apex symbol of a thriving middle class. The phrase “land-value tax” has come to sound suspiciously like “higher property tax,” making the politics even more difficult.
Curtis has spent the better part of his life proselytizing about land taxes but lamented that even in his hometown, Arden, most people are somewhere between ignorant of and indifferent to Henry George. Most of his work now occurs in a home office with five printers. That’s where he runs the Henry George Academy’s incarcerated student program. Curtis mails lessons based on “Progress and Poverty” to inmates in state and federal prisons, grades the papers they send back and then mails a certificate upon completion.
“When I’m gone, at least somebody will have known the thesis of Henry George,” he said. “I wasn’t just talking to myself.”
Hope of a Real-World Victory
When modern Georgists describe their descent into the wormhole, the journey sounds like a healthier, nerdier version of the route to QAnon. “I think one day I just typed ‘Why do the suburbs suck?’ into Google,” said Nia Johnson, a 29-year-old consultant focused on startups and consumer technology.
The Googling led to a TED Talk on suburban design, she said, which led to urbanism Twitter, and to following various YIMBY accounts. She started tweeting about zoning policy, and then one day, a social media follower said she sounded like a Georgist, which led to another Google search.
“And I was like, ‘Oh, my God, yes,’” Johnson said. “Once you learn about it and understand it, you see how almost everything about our economy and our society that is crappy can be attributed in some way to poor land use.”
Johnson, like many of the new Georgists, fits a certain archetype: She’s young and loves cities, but she wishes they were less expensive to live in.
For her, Georgism isn’t a full platform — Johnson, like Fairweather of Redfin and most of their cohort, doesn’t believe in a single tax, for instance. Instead, it represents her aspiration for something different: better housing policy and the idea that social welfare and market capitalism don’t have to be in opposition.
Like a lot of the new Georgists I spoke with, Johnson discovered Georgist ideas during the pandemic, which seems to have been an ideal vector for the ideology’s spread: There was an audience of professionals with high rent, stuck inside, watching home prices soar, with the time to go deep on a 19th-century thinker. In 2020, Astral Codex Ten, the futurism blog widely read in Silicon Valley circles, published a series of guest blog posts on Georgism that were so popular that they were compiled into a book, “Land Is a Big Deal.”
From Delaware to California, every Georgist I talked with was closely following Detroit. Duggan’s proposal, while a long way from full-blown Georgism, represents something the movement hasn’t had much of: the hope of a real-world victory and a chance to show how land-value taxes can solve an actual problem — in this case, blight.
Detroit, for all its problems, is more hopeful today than it has been in decades.
Will it ever again be the Detroit of the 1950s? Probably not. But to someone walking around downtown, past new cranes, new restaurants and a new Gucci store, it’s clear that the nadir of the Great Recession is comfortably in the past.
The problem is that in the years after the downturn, investors bought large swaths of the city and have mostly just sat on it.
From 2011-15, about 100,000 properties — more than one-fourth of the Detroit lots — were auctioned in tax foreclosures, according to Regrid, a Detroit-based provider of parcel data nationally. They weigh on the city’s progress and produce a stream of sad stories, such as the one about a grandmother who was evicted from her home and moved to a van across the street but continued to mow the lawn because she cared about the neighborhood.
Duggan refers to vacant properties as “lottery tickets.” They can be bought for little and held for little — some lots have taxes as low as $30 per year — but have a huge potential payoff, usually because someone else wants to invest. (Speculators recently made money after the city bought out vacant lots to help revive an auto plant that would bring jobs to the area.)
Problems such as this are what helped spur interest in a new tax scheme. An early advocate for Detroit’s plan was Nick Allen, now a 32-year-old graduate student in urban planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who worked for a city economic development agency from 2017-19. Allen said his main project at the agency was finding new ways to stimulate growth that didn’t rely on grants and tax breaks. After reading “Progress and Poverty” years earlier, he had become obsessed with the problem of speculation, and suggested a land-value tax. (Allen said he had never mentioned Henry George to the mayor because “the idea survives on its own without having to go back to 1879.”)
Instead of citing a dusty text, Duggan’s speeches on the land-value tax feature the politically salient image of homeowners with lovely gardens who pay more in property taxes than the vacant apartment building next door. A tax break for residents — paid for by nameless investors who are “taking advantage of the city” — would seem like a political layup.
But he needs state approval to do it, and lawmakers have been skeptical. This year, Michigan legislators debated a bill that would allow the mayor’s plan to go forward, but the measure was tabled until next year. Even if the bill passes, Detroit voters would then have to approve it. It’s a lot of ifs.
However it goes, the question for Georgists is whether Detroit is a particular city with a particular problem or the opening salvo in a larger conversation.
Most of the new Georgists I spoke with were concentrated in and around high-cost cities whose housing problems stem from a lack of supply — that is, basically, the opposite of Detroit.
When Duggan says “land tax,” he means encouraging growth on empty parcels and a tax cut for homeowners. When Mark Mollineaux, a 38-year-old engineer in Silicon Valley, says “land tax,” he is pointing to $3 million bungalows in Palo Alto, California, and his wish that they could be replaced with denser housing or at least had higher taxes. In other words, in a depressed city, homeowners are victims; in rich ones, they’re the enemy.
“These homeowners have a land value of millions, and they’re hoarding it,” Mollineaux, who hosts “The Henry George Program,” a radio show and podcast, said in an interview.
“I advocate razing Silicon Valley, socializing the land and building massive condos that are owned by the public and allocated equitably,” he added. “But even a tweak would be nice.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Taxation; Taxes; Neighborhood blight

Business indexing term: Subject: Taxation Taxes

Location: United States--US; India; Detroit Michigan

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Property Taxes; Massachusetts; Delaware; Foreclosures; Blogs And Blogging (Internet); Small Business; New York City; Elections, Mayors; Budgets And Budgeting; Evictions; Careers And Professions; Astral Codex Ten (Blog); Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); California; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Telecommuting; Hiring And Promotion; Google Inc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Zoning; Recession And Depression; Capitalism (Theory And Philosophy); Michigan; Towson University; Taxation; Computers And The Internet; Elderly; Detroit (Mich); Local Governme nt; Law And Legislation; Writing And Writers; Twitter; Shakespeare, William; Democratic Party; Theater; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); Drivers Education; Lawns; Education (K 12); San Francisco (Calif); Area Planning And Renewal; Stocks And Bonds; Redfin; Income Inequality; Real Estate (Commercial); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Socialism (Theory And Philosophy); Coronavirus Reopenings; Labor And Jobs; Podcasts; George, Henry (1839 97); Palo Alto (Calif); Philadelphia (Pa); India; Silicon Valley (Calif); Land Use Policies; Capital Gains Tax; High Net Worth Individuals; Massachusetts Institute Of Technology; Games; Duggan, Mike; Anger (Emotion); Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Derricks And Cranes; United States Economy; Urban Areas; Start Ups; Lotteries; Maryland; Enterprise Zones; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Books And Literature

Title: The ‘Georgists’ Are Out There, and They Want to Tax Your Land

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-11T16:18:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2888635142

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/georgists-are-out-there-they-want-tax-your-land/docview/2888635142/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Personal Growth Powers His Music: [Correction]

Author: Phillips, Lior

Publication info: Phillips, Lior. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/personal-growth-powers-his-music/docview/2886771217/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The 32-year-old's work in Zulu and English traverses styles and explores queer histories. This week he releases a new EP, "The Baddies of Isandlwana."
On a crisp Thursday morning hours before Desire Marea's performance at the Transform Festival in Leeds, England, earlier this month, the South African songwriter sat in Kirkstall Valley Nature Reserve, communing with his Zulu ancestors. It's a practice he honed through his training as a sangoma, a traditional spiritual healer, and it is essential to his craft.
"There's no music if my ancestors aren't invited and honored," Marea, 32, said in a video interview from his hotel room later that morning. Quick with a smile and clad in a simple gray T-shirt and plain shorts from the South African designer Lukhanyo Mdingi's 2023 collection, Marea was far more soft-spoken than he is onstage, where his high-drama performances and penchant for experimental fashion speak loudly.
Marea sings in English and Zulu; his music melds styles (funk, Afrobeat, electro, experimental pop) and traverses topics including queerness, Zulu culture and history. His 2020 debut, "Desire," was a solo album of pulsing, burbling synths and beats. Its follow-up, "On the Romance of Being," featured a 13-piece band bringing urgent, jazzy compositions to life.
On Thursday, Marea will release "The Baddies of Isandlwana," a propulsive three-song EP that encompasses his ambitious creative scope: Its title refers to an 1879 battle in the war between the British Empire and the Zulu Kingdom; its sounds were inspired by his search for identity in the nightlife of Amandawe, a small township south of Durban; and its lyrics imagine the lives of queer Zulu soldiers.
Born Buyani Duma, Marea grew up in Amandawe, and like many Black South Africans of his generation, his childhood was affected by the political unrest of the '90s. When Marea was only a few months old, his father went missing in the midst of protests in Durban and was never found. His mother supported his early appetite for performing, accompanying him when he appeared in an ad campaign for a carpet company: "She knew then that I was a star," he said.
When she died in a car accident six years after his father's disappearance, grandparents, aunts and uncles helped Marea follow his dreams and attend a fine arts school as a teen, where he initially planned on studying drawing.
After trying his hand at visual art and then fashion, Marea discovered the power of music, and began operating under his stage name: Desire allowed him to embody "the carnal energy of creation," while the Zulu word Marea, he explained, "is the ocean, the tide, the star of the sea." He also began teaming with a friend, Fela Gucci, as Faka. The duo produced an explosive take on gqom, a South African genre that combines elements of classic Chicago house and traditional African rhythms.
Through their performances, photography and an inclusive club night, Faka explored queer identity, African art heritage and free expression. The project "was a cultural reset in the fashion and music space," the South African singer Zoë Modiga wrote in an email. "It was spellbinding, it was new, it was a frenzy."
The South African designer Thebe Magugu, who went on to collaborate with Marea on looks for photo shoots, heralded Marea's merging of "his heritage, culture and spiritual journey together with his queerness," in an email. "Seeing people interrogate themselves so freely reminds us to do the same," he added.
Marea said Faka was powerful, but only the beginning. "We had a responsibility to serve our people, to serve Black, young, queer Africans, by putting ourselves out there, being visible, and saying all that we needed to say with the conviction that we said it with," he explained. "But there was something propelling me to answer this call, to give the world this music."
He started having vivid dreams; in one of the most striking, he saw visions of himself as a sangoma. A powerful figure with roots in the Xhosa and Zulu traditions, sangomas have fulfilled a variety of roles over time, including spirit mediums and practitioners of traditional medicine.
"Music was my first teacher of matters of the spirit and how to receive messages, but in 2020 I was told it goes beyond being a musician," Marea said. He noted that had been "feeling strange" for perhaps 10 years. "I knew there was something I needed to get, a level of actualization that only comes with undergoing initiation."
Marea spent seven months training to become a sangoma, and while stereotypes of hyper-masculinity can pervade traditional spaces, he found quite the opposite. "I trained with a lot of other queer sangomas -- almost as if queerness was a spiritual condition," he said with a warm laugh. "From what I understand, it's a very known thing, but even our ancestors support it. I don't have homophobic ancestors."
Daniel Miller first heard Marea's music around that time. As the founder of Mute -- a label known for releasing works from electronic acts like Erasure, Depeche Mode and Goldfrapp -- Miller quickly recognized Marea's musical innovation. "I'd never signed an artist before without actually meeting them, but we met on Zoom over a few occasions and really hit it off," Miller said on a phone call from his home in the United Kingdom. He was delighted that Marea "didn't sound like anything else on Mute at all, anywhere close."
Newly initiated as a sangoma and signed to an international label, Marea set to work on what would become "On the Romance of Being," released in April. The influence of South African electronic elements like gqom and its more lounge-y sibling amapiano remained, but he added a band stacked with mainstays in South Africa's thriving experimental jazz scene, including the keyboardist Sibusiso Mashiloane and the bassist Portia Sibiya, as well as the writers and producers Thuthuka Sibisi and Sanele Ngubane.
For Ngubane, Marea's role as a healer permeated the creative process. "The signs were very clear that he has a strong calling and witnessing him before and after his transition, it all makes sense now," he wrote via email.
Many of the "On the Romance of Being" musicians returned for "The Baddies of Islandlwana," three tracks that explore a visceral sonic landscape. If the LP is "an offering to my ancestors," Marea said, the EP is "more an offering to myself."
The new songs originated at a moment when he had returned to Amandawe after a period away. "I was surrounded by all these Zulu men, and I was like, 'Who am I now? Historically, who was I then?"' he said.
Marea found himself envisioning the Anglo-Zulu war and imagining what queer life must have been in that time of physical conflict and stoic masculinity. The resulting music -- with gleaming horns, churning percussion and chant-like breaths -- is electrifying. "What if God doesn't know?/What good is it to know?/What good does it serve?/Are you really at peace if you know?" he sings on "If You Know," as the smoldering track boils over with stabs of trumpet and crashing cymbals.
"I will dream of melodies," Marea said of his deep connection to the music. "Sometimes it's a bass line, sometimes a drum line, sometimes a vocal melody. Whatever they're sending me, I will go and recreate that to my best ability."
"There's a conviction now," he explained, "because it feels like I've figured out who I am as an artist and as a human being."
Photograph Desire Marea's latest release is "The Baddies of Isandlwana," a three-song EP. (C1); After trying his hand at visual art and then fashion, Desire Marea discovered the power of music. Then his journey of discovery led him in a spiritual direction. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HELLMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C5.

Subject: Musical recordings

Title: Personal Growth Powers His Music:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 8, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Audio Review

ProQuest document ID: 2886771217

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/personal-growth-powers-his-music/docview/2886771217/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 8, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Desire Marea’s Genre-Melting Music Stirs South Africa, and the World

Author: Phillips, Lior

Publication info: Phillips, Lior. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/desire-marea-s-genre-melting-music-stirs-south/docview/2886730002/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
On a crisp Thursday morning hours before Desire Marea’s performance at the Transform Festival in Leeds, England, earlier this month, the South African songwriter sat in Kirkstall Valley Nature Reserve, communing with his Zulu ancestors. It’s a practice he honed through his training as a sangoma, a traditional spiritual healer, and it is essential to his craft.
“There’s no music if my ancestors aren’t invited and honored,” Marea, 32, said in a video interview from his hotel room later that morning. Quick with a smile and clad in a simple gray T-shirt and plain shorts from South African designer Lukhanyo Mdingi’s 2023 collection, Marea was far more soft-spoken than he is onstage, where his high-drama performances and penchant for experimental fashion speak loudly.
Marea sings in English and Zulu; his music melds styles (funk, Afrobeat, electro, experimental pop) and traverses topics including queerness, Zulu culture and history. His 2020 debut, “Desire,” was a solo album of pulsing, burbling synths and beats. Its follow-up, “On the Romance of Being,” featured a 13-piece band bringing urgent, jazzy compositions to life.
On Thursday, Marea will release “The Baddies of Isandlwana,” a propulsive three-song EP that encompasses his ambitious creative scope: Its title refers to an 1897 battle in the war between the British Empire and the Zulu Kingdom; its sounds were inspired by his search for identity in the nightlife of Amandawe, a small township south of Durban; and its lyrics imagine the lives of queer Zulu soldiers.
Born Buyani Duma, Marea grew up in Amandawe, and like many Black South Africans of his generation, his childhood was affected by the political unrest of the ’90s. When Marea was only a few months old, his father went missing in the midst of protests in Durban and was never found. His mother supported his early appetite for performing, accompanying him when he appeared in an ad campaign for a carpet company: “She knew then that I was a star,” he said.
When she died in a car accident six years after his father’s disappearance, grandparents, aunts and uncles helped Marea follow his dreams and attend a fine arts school as a teen, where he initially planned on studying drawing.
After trying his hand at visual art and then fashion, Marea discovered the power of music and began operating under his stage name: Desire allowed him to embody “the carnal energy of creation,” while the Zulu word Marea, he explained, “is the ocean, the tide, the star of the sea.” He also began teaming with a friend, Fela Gucci, as Faka. The duo produced an explosive take on gqom, a South African genre that combines elements of classic Chicago house and traditional African rhythms.
Through their performances, photography and an inclusive club night, Faka explored queer identity, African art heritage and free expression. The project “was a cultural reset in the fashion and music space,” South African singer Zoë Modiga wrote in an email. “It was spellbinding, it was new, it was a frenzy.”
South African designer Thebe Magugu, who went on to collaborate with Marea on looks for photo shoots, heralded Marea’s merging of “his heritage, culture and spiritual journey together with his queerness,” in an email. “Seeing people interrogate themselves so freely reminds us to do the same,” he added.
Marea said Faka was powerful but only the beginning. “We had a responsibility to serve our people, to serve Black, young, queer Africans, by putting ourselves out there, being visible, and saying all that we needed to say with the conviction that we said it with,” he explained. “But there was something propelling me to answer this call, to give the world this music.”
He started having vivid dreams; in one of the most striking, he saw visions of himself as a sangoma. A powerful figure with roots in the Xhosa and Zulu traditions, sangomas have fulfilled a variety of roles over time, including spirit mediums and practitioners of traditional medicine.
“Music was my first teacher of matters of the spirit and how to receive messages, but in 2020 I was told it goes beyond being a musician,” Marea said. He noted that he had been “feeling strange” for perhaps 10 years. “I knew there was something I needed to get, a level of actualization that only comes with undergoing initiation.”
Marea spent seven months training to become a sangoma, and while stereotypes of hyper-masculinity can pervade traditional spaces, he found quite the opposite. “I trained with a lot of other queer sangomas — almost as if queerness was a spiritual condition,” he said with a warm laugh. “From what I understand, it’s a very known thing, but even our ancestors support it. I don’t have homophobic ancestors.”
Daniel Miller first heard Marea’s music around that time. As the founder of Mute — a label known for releasing works from electronic acts like Erasure, Depeche Mode and Goldfrapp — Miller quickly recognized Marea’s musical innovation. “I’d never signed an artist before without actually meeting them, but we met on Zoom over a few occasions and really hit it off,” Miller said on a phone call from his home in the United Kingdom. He was delighted that Marea “didn’t sound like anything else on Mute at all, anywhere close.”
Newly initiated as a sangoma and signed to an international label, Marea set to work on what would become “On the Romance of Being,” released in April. The influence of South African electronic elements like gqom and its more lounge-y sibling amapiano remained, but he added a band stacked with mainstays in South Africa’s thriving experimental jazz scene, including keyboardist Sibusiso Mashiloane and bassist Portia Sibiya, as well as writers and producers Thuthuka Sibisi and Sanele Ngubane.
For Ngubane, Marea’s role as a healer permeated the creative process. “The signs were very clear that he has a strong calling and witnessing him before and after his transition, it all makes sense now,” he wrote via email.
Many of the “On the Romance of Being” musicians returned for “The Baddies of Islandlwana,” three tracks that explore a visceral sonic landscape. If the LP is “an offering to my ancestors,” Marea said, the EP is “more an offering to myself.”
The new songs originated at a moment when he had returned to Amandawe after a period away. “I was surrounded by all these Zulu men, and I was like, ‘Who am I now? Historically, who was I then?’” he said.
Marea found himself envisioning the Anglo-Zulu war and imagining what queer life must have been in that time of physical conflict and stoic masculinity. The resulting music — with gleaming horns, churning percussion and chantlike breaths — is electrifying. “What if God doesn’t know?/What good is it to know?/What good does it serve?/Are you really at peace if you know?” he sings on “If You Know,” as the smoldering track boils over with stabs of trumpet and crashing cymbals.
“I will dream of melodies,” Marea said of his deep connection to the music. “Sometimes it’s a bass line, sometimes a drum line, sometimes a vocal melody. Whatever they’re sending me, I will go and re-create that to my best ability.
“There’s a conviction now,” he explained, “because it feels like I’ve figured out who I am as an artist and as a human being.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Musical performances

Location: New York; South Africa; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Peace Process; Musical Instruments; Politics And Government; South Africa; England; International Relations; Pop And Rock Music; Gucci; Goldfrapp (Music Group); Zulus; Arts; Sibisi, Thuthuka; Mdingi, Lukhanyo; Great Britain; Marea, Desire; Entertainment; Magugu, Thebe; Erasure (Music Group); Men And Boys; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Culture (Arts); Durban (South Africa); Traffic Accidents And Safety; Art; Discrimination; Music; Wildlife Sanctuaries And Nature Reserves; Alternative And Complementary Medicine; Leeds (England); Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Amnesties, Commutations And Pardons; Deaths (Fatalities); Africa; Missing Persons; Bars And Nightclubs

Title: Desire Marea’s Genre-Melting Music Stirs South Africa, and the World

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 7, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-07T22:14:51Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2886730002

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/desire-marea-s-genre-melting-music-stirs-south/docview/2886730002/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Holiday Movie Listings: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Kenigsberg, Ben

Publication info: Kenigsberg, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-movie-listings/docview/2885974542/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "The Color Purple" and "Poor Things" and Beyoncé lead a list packed with goodies. Mark your calendars.
The leaves are falling, and at least one of the strikes looming over the film season has been resolved. From Wiseman to Wonka, Beyoncé to Ferrari, here is a select list of the films you need to know about this winter. Release dates and platforms are subject to change.
Photograph Phylicia Pearl Mpasi as Young Celie, left, and Halle Bailey as Young Nettie in the adaptation of the musical version of "The Color Purple." (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS. PICTURES); From left, Michael Potts (open jacket), Aml Ameen, Chris Rock, Glynn Turman and Kevin Mambo as civil rights leaders in George C. Wolfe's "Rustin." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LEE/NETFLIX); Natalie Portman as an actress studying her subject in "May December." (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS DUHAMEL/NETFLIX); Brie Larson, center, as Captain Marvel and Iman Vellani as Ms. Marvel in, yes, "The Marvels." (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA RADFORD/MARVEL) (AR9); Eddie Murphy and Tracee Ellis Ross deal with holiday woes in "Candy Cane Lane." (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMAZON PRIME VIDEO); Joaquin Phoenix as the title character in Ridley Scott's "Napoleon." (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES/APPLE ORIGINAL); Beyoncé in Toronto on her Renaissance tour, the subject of her new movie.; Emma Stone in "Poor Things," directed by Yorgos Lanthimos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES); Jason Momoa dives back into "Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom." (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS./DC COMICS); Timothée Chalamet takes over as the title character in "Wonka." Hugh Grant is an Oompa Loompa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS.) (AR14); Adam Driver, who took on the role of Maurizio Gucci in 2021, is playing another figure synonymous with Italy this winter in "Ferrari." (PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND/NEON); Kumail Nanjiani provides the voice for one of the Mallards in "Migration." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILLUMINATION) (AR17) This article appeared in print on page AR9, AR14, AR17. This article appeared in print on page AR9

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/04/movies/holiday-winter-films.html

Title: Holiday Movie Listings:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 5, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885974542

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-movie-listings/docview/2885974542/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, Influencer: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carolyn-bessette-kennedy-influencer/docview/2883190409/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When John F. Kennedy Jr.'s plane crashed on July 16, 1999, killing both Mr. Kennedy and his wife, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy (as well as Carolyn's older sister), at the peak of their glamour and celebrity, the couple became not just another tragic story, but a symbol.
Think pieces proliferated about what it all meant: about the Kennedy curse and promises unfulfilled; about another chapter in, as The New York Times wrote in an editorial, the story of "unfinished journeys, of magnetic personalities cut down far too early."
He founded George magazine; she had been a publicist at Calvin Klein. Together they embodied not only the next golden generation of a sprawling, mythic family, but also the apotheosis of the collision between fashion, pop culture, magazines and politics that defined New York in 1990s. Seemingly it was the last gasp of the monoculture, when discretion in both dress and demeanor was its own kind of currency and everyone agreed on who did it best.
Little wonder that as fascination with that era reaches a new pitch, Ms. Bessette Kennedy has emerged as the ghost influencer of the season -- one who has particular resonance as stealth wealth evolves into an embrace of more functional minimalism in the face of global chaos; disillusionment grows with the cesspool that the digital world has become; and the question of what exactly it means to be "American" takes center stage.
"She used fashion as her way of having a conversation or dealing with the public," said Sunita Kumar Nair, the author of "CBK: Carolyn Bessette Kennedy: A Life in Fashion," to be published next month. The book focuses entirely on Ms. Bessette Kennedy's style as seen through essays and interviews with designers, photographers and fashion figures. And now, when it comes to that conversation, fashion is talking back. Perhaps more than ever.
This fall, the brand Sporty & Rich published an ad campaign recreating some of the most famous paparazzi shots of Carolyn and John: walking their dog or his bike in the streets of TriBeCa in crew necks and boots, clutching hands and newspapers in jeans and flip-flops. On runways throughout New York Fashion Week and beyond, the building blocks of the C.B.K. wardrobe -- white shirts, pencil skirts, jeans, loafers and pumps, slip dresses, men's overcoats -- dominated. The pieces were often referred to as "timeless" or "classic" or "understated," but with just enough rigor to seem interesting.
Though anniversaries often inspire a reassessment of historic figures (next year will be the 25th anniversary of the plane crash), and despite the Kennedy family finding itself once again in the news (Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is seeking the White House, and a coming Ryan Murphy show will include a portrayal of Lee Radziwill, Jackie Kennedy's younger sister), the C.B.K. revival is at once broader and more nuanced than that.
The Ubiquitous White Shirt and the 1990s
Like Diana, Princess of Wales, whose royal status, beauty and untimely death made her into a legend, Ms. Bessette Kennedy exists less as a person than an idea. Because she was so notoriously private, because she married into a family that had already colonized part of the public imagination, and because our memories of her are essentially preserved in amber (which is to say, a finite number of photographs, most of them taken between 1994, when she started dating Mr. Kennedy, and 1999), she will never age, get Botox, post an unthinking comment, get messy -- or change her style.
Instead, Ms. Bessette Kennedy offered an example of a different way to be in the world, one that valorized what wasn't shown. And because she never gave a single interview after her marriage, what she wore has become a stand-in for who she was.
That ethos has propelled her onto the mood boards of such disparate labels as Carolina Herrera and Sandy Liang; hovered in the air above the slip dresses and shirtdresses at Staud; and helped make the white button-up shirt the single most ubiquitous item of the season.
There were white artists' shirts at Altuzarra, worn over full midi-skirts; crisp white shirts at Bally, paired with neat white pencil skirts; and asymmetric white shirts at Dior. There were long white shirts-cum-dresses at Peter Do, white shirts buttoned to the neck at Loewe and white shirts paired with the sort of boyfriend jeans Ms. Bessette Kennedy favored at Stella McCartney. That's before you even get to the camel pencil skirts, another Bessette Kennedy staple, at Michael Kors, Gucci, MaxMara and Saint Laurent, to name a few.
"The woman this season is much quieter, less bold, with less nudity and fewer cutouts and leather 'powerful' looks," said Alexandra Van Houtte, the founder of the fashion search engine Tagwalk. "She's more discreet, also wears more wearable clothes, and colors on a whole have been a little bland: black, white, light blue" -- which pretty much sums up the Bessette Kennedy palette, with the addition of gray.
Indeed, across more than 11,000 images from the last round of shows in Paris, London, Milan and New York, Tagwalk found a 45 percent increase in the number of shirts compared with spring 2023, and an 8 percent increase in white, Ms. Van Houtte said. "Minimalism" was up 46 percent, and the 1990s was the single most searched tag. (In the TikTok style channel, videos related to the 1990s have more than 93 million views.)
If Kate Moss represented the grunge side of the '90s, Ms. Bessette Kennedy was its understated chic.
It was an aesthetic that married strong Social Register vibes (she wore headbands and even the occasional kerchief) with an appreciation for cut and material and a certain insouciance that never looked as if she was trying too hard.
"The Kennedys developed a style you could call casual but purposeful," said John Hellmann, a professor of English at Ohio State University and the author of "The Kennedy Obsession: The American Myth of JFK." "It seemed uniquely American but also modern in the best sense of the word. There was an economy to how they dressed. And Carolyn was in many ways the most updated version of that."
At a time when New York fashion is undergoing one of its periodic paradigm shifts, with the big brands that once defined a national aesthetic giving way to a melting pot of new names with diverse identities and reference points, she represents a certain touchstone in the ontology of American style.
Mystery, Minimalism, Sustainability
"She was minimalism with character -- she wasn't sterile or boring," said Wes Gordon, the creative director of Carolina Herrera, who, like many of the designers now channeling Ms. Bessette Kennedy's style, knew her only through the imagery. He thinks of her, he said, when he is removing an extraneous ruffle from a shirt or otherwise toning down the label's usual flamboyance. "I think I've seen every picture that exists of C.B.K.," he said.
It's this limited record that is part of her appeal, said Elizabeth Beller, whose book "Once Upon a Time: The Captivating Life of Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy," a more formal biography, will join the Bessette Kennedy chorus when it is published next spring. "In the age of social media, where lives are often curated for show, Carolyn's reserve is especially appealing."
Professor Hellmann agreed. "In an age of extreme image replication and proliferation, there's a mystery to John F. Kennedy Jr. and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy that gives them dignity," he said.
She and Mr. Kennedy were one of the first celebrity couples to marry in total privacy in the age of tabloids and paparazzi, releasing only one picture they approved to the breathless public, who could not get enough of the simple silk slip dress Ms. Bessette Kennedy wore at her wedding -- designed by the then-unknown Narciso Rodriguez, a friend from her Calvin Klein days, who did not remain unknown for long.
"She would never have been on the Vogue.com wedding website," Ms. Liang said. "There's something very special about that. The archive is the archive."
Ms. Beller added that Ms. Bessette Kennedy "resonates with the cultural vibe of 'stealth wealth' and interest in sustainability."
She might have worn Yohji Yamamoto or Prada, but, Ms. Nair said, "she only had, like, 30 to 40 pieces in her wardrobe" -- unusual at a time when public figures are rarely seen in the same thing twice.
"You just think, 'Oh, OK, that's quite an edit right there,"' Ms. Nair said. "One of her friends said, 'You'd open up her wardrobe, and there's like, five black pants, a selection of really well-fitted shirts.' The rest sometimes she would borrow if she needed to go to gala events." She had a consistency that made her clothes feel as if they were "part of her psyche," Ms. Nair said. As if she had chosen them, not a stylist.
Put another way: She had an Hermès Birkin, but it looked used, chock-full of the stuff of everyday life; she even toted it on the subway. That makes Ms. Bessette Kennedy an object of fascination not simply because of what she wore, but because of how she handled what she wore.
"I'm always wondering, 'Would she wear this?"' Ms. Liang said. "Or what would she wear this with?"
Photograph John F. Kennedy Jr. and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy on their wedding day in 1996. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS REGGIE) (ST1); Left, John F. Kennedy Jr. and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy in 1998. Above, a book set to be published next month. Below left, the couple in 1997, and right, an image from a Sporty & Rich ad campaign that recreated paparazzi shots of the Kennedys. Bottom from left: Ms. Bessette Kennedy in 1999; a model at the Fendi fashion show in September; the couple in 1996; and a model in a piece from the MaxMara spring 2024 collection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CURRAN PHOTOGRAPHY, VIA ABRAMS BOOKS; ABRAMS BOOKS; MICHAEL FERGUSON/ZUMA PRESS VIA ABRAMS BOOKS; SPORTY & RICH; EVAN AGOSTINI/LIAISON; VITTORIO ZUNINO CELOTTO/ GETTY IMAGES; LAWRENCE SCHWARTZWALD/SYGMA, VIA GETTY IMAGES FILIPPO FIOR/GORUNWAY.COM) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST3.

Subject: Clothing; Weddings; Archives & records; Marriage; Celebrities; Fashion designers; Books; Anniversaries

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Kennedy, John Fitzgerald (1917-1963)

Company / organization: Name: Carolina Herrera; NAICS: 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/24/style/carolyn-bessette-kennedy-fashion-influencer.html

Title: Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, Influencer:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 29, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883190409

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carolyn-bessette-kennedy-influencer/docview/2883190409/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Unseen Legacy With Quiet Jewish Roots: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa; Lakin, Max

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa; Lakin, Max. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unseen-legacy-with-quiet-jewish-roots/docview/2880614452/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Gaby Aghion, Chloé's founder, didn't just make a brand for herself, she made one for all women.
For only the second time in its almost 120 years, the Jewish Museum is holding a fashion exhibition -- and it is the first in New York dedicated to Chloé, the French ready-to-wear brand founded in 1952 by the Egyptian-born designer Gaby Aghion. "Mood of the Moment: Gaby Aghion and the House of Chloé" seeks to rectify both oversights, while introducing its founder, and her connection to her own Jewish identity, to the broader public.
Born Gabrielle Hanoka in Alexandria in 1921, Aghion moved to Paris in 1945, after her marriage to Raymond Aghion, and opened Chloé -- named for a friend -- in 1952, at a time when designer-dictated couture (made-to-order clothes for the elite) still dominated the French fashion scene, and Jewish roots were kept relatively quiet. Though she wasn't formally trained, Aghion, who identified as a Communist, believed women needed something easier -- chicer, simpler, more whimsical -- to wear every day, and she set out to offer them just that, hiring an assortment of talented young designers to realize her vision and setting a template that would define the brand.
In 1966 Karl Lagerfeld joined the house, working closely with Aghion until 1983; in 1987, after Aghion sold the brand to the Richemont Group, Martine Sitbon stepped in as creative director, to be followed by Lagerfeld again (1992-1997), and seven more designers, including Stella McCartney, Phoebe Philo and Clare Waight Keller. Aghion died in 2014, but the "Chloé girl" she created lived -- and lives -- on.
The exhibition seeks to foreground Aghion at the brand, repositioning Chloé as a historically important fashion name and giving the museum a pop culture edge. Whether it succeeds was the subject of a debate between Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic for The New York Times, and Max Lakin, a contributing culture critic.
VANESSA FRIEDMAN Fashion shows in New York tend to land at the Met, the Brooklyn Museum, or specialist institutions like the Fashion Institute of Technology, which makes this show something of a black swan. So what exactly is going on here? Do you think this is a teachable moment about cultural preconceptions, an effort by the museum to reach a new audience, or both?
MAX LAKIN This is what intrigued me about siting this here. The Jewish Museum has mounted art-historically important exhibitions, though as you say, infrequently about fashion (their first was a buoyant Isaac Mizrahi survey in 2016). Yet this show only really addresses Aghion's Jewishness -- and, for that matter, Aghion herself -- sidelong, despite her being the nominally animating principle.
Aghion's biography basically takes up half of the first gallery, with photos of her lolling among the desert dunes of her youth, after which the show becomes a mostly linear brand history, from boutique upstart to global industry player. I don't necessarily think this is a curatorial failure: like the majority of diasporic Jewry, Aghion was largely secular; most designer-entrepreneurs did not foreground their Jewishness. ("Ralph Lauren" is of course the savvy Anglicization of Ralph Lifshitz.) She subsumed her own identity in the Chloé name, an invention she chose mostly because she liked the way the roundness of the letters looked together. Despite its consumer popularity, Chloé is relatively understudied, no?
FRIEDMAN Very understudied. In part, that's because museums tend to be either interested in fashion as: 1) an art form, or a textile art form, which means couture: the super-fancy clothes made for the very few; or 2) an expression of a sociocultural trend, in which case work from different brands makes the argument. It's rare for one show to focus on a single ready-to-wear brand such as Chloé. Yet that's what the Jewish Museum is doing, and it suggests that brand has something very important to say. But beyond simply giving Gaby Aghion credit where credit is due -- here is a Jewish female entrepreneur in a fashion world where those three words rarely get acknowledged as going together -- what, exactly, is that?
After seeing the show I'm not sure. The exhibition moves on from its founder fairly quickly through nine (count 'em!) other designers for the label, only one of whom identifies as Jewish (Stella McCartney) and two of whom were men.
LAKIN It's instructive to follow the progression of the design that's touched so many points of culture and how tastes have changed, but it's also very clearly brand service -- the bulk of the show is directly from the Chloé archive -- though it is not reminiscent of the kinds of "exhibitions" Vuitton or Gucci have given themselves in recent years, which are really walkable marketing campaigns. This is a sober exhibition with an argument, which is that an enormous part of fashion history -- Lagerfeld and McCartney and Philo -- doesn't happen without Aghion.
FRIEDMAN At least the show is not actually sponsored by Chloé, the way the recent Dior extravaganza at the Brooklyn Museum was underwritten by Dior, so it's not a brand advert, which is a good thing (the sheer fact that there is no part of the show devoted to perfume is a huge relief).
LAKIN It also credits Aghion with "elevated ready-to-wear" which predated Saint Laurent, and which is compelling. The fact that this is the legacy of a Jewish woman largely becomes subtext.
FRIEDMAN That is actually more than compelling -- it's potentially revolutionary. Saint Laurent, as you point out, is generally credited with creating ready-to-wear when he opened his Rive Gauche boutique in 1966, but Aghion had her first show featuring "elevated" off-the-rack clothes in 1956 at Café de Flore as friends breakfasted all around (she liked the idea of situating her models in the middle of the life where her clothes were meant to be worn).
To trumpet to the world that a Jewish woman in the 1950s actually was first to the post with this idea is quite a big deal. Especially given, as you point out, fashion's historic unease with its own Jewish roots. This is an industry, after all, that often still holds its ready-to-wear shows during Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur, making no concession to the Jewish High Holy Days in its scheduling.
LAKIN The exhibition moves as breezily as an organza tunic, and makes and abandons these points quickly, which to me was perhaps a concession to tight attention spans.
FRIEDMAN What comes across in the clothes, from the painterly early Lagerfeld dresses through his surreal period (the body as a violin! the body as a showerhead!), and on to Philo's gauzy nymphs and It bags and Waight Keller's ruffled urbanity, is the idea that Aghion set the easy-breezy-feminine tone that then launched so many careers. The room I found most interesting was the final blouse room, which features 50 different shirts from almost all of the designers of the label mixed in with each other, and begins to lay the groundwork for a common Chloé vocabulary and value system: pretty, undemanding, functional but not fussy. I almost wish the curators had started with that. Pointedly, the catalog does.
LAKIN The blouse room is an affecting tribute, beautiful to look at (and, not least of all, makes you slow down). It's an enveloping wall of diaphanous crepe chiffon and damasks in endless shades of creamy earth tones -- colors Aghion loved to wear because they reminded her of the Egyptian beaches of her youth. But it does also feel like here someone finally remembered what the point of the exhibition was supposed to be. I do wonder how much of Aghion's Egypt each successive designer thought about in creating a garment. Certainly every brand produces a delicate silk blouse?
FRIEDMAN Yes, but not always in desert tones with an abstract ruffle. My other favorite part of the exhibition: the fact the curators chose to show the garments on hangers rather than artsy mannequins. It gives the clothes an air of accessibility that seems authentic to the house and bolsters the argument that Aghion created Chloé -- and, again, the idea of ready-to-wear -- in part as a riposte to the prevailing stiffness of couture.
These curatorial choices also take away from the sense that you're seeing Important Fashion, a message on which museum costume shows are so often predicated. That's another subversive aspect to this show that is interesting, and makes it relatable. After all, one of the purposes of fashion in a museum is to attract an audience that otherwise might not see that institution as relevant to their lives. And I do think this show feels relevant, both politically, given what is going on in the world, and aesthetically.
LAKIN The exhibition makes a good case, probably inadvertently, that clarity doesn't always translate to elegance; McCartney and Gabriela Hearst, of the Chloé designers, are certainly the loudest here. Their designs, punkish, insouciant Y.B.A. -- for the Young British Artists of the '90s -- and wealthy Coachella attendee, respectively, seemed more interested in asserting their own vision than interpreting Aghion's ideas of lightness and ease. Sitbon and Waight Keller were perhaps more faithful to that vision, producing sensual, refined garments, and in Waight Keller's case, ones almost defiantly feminine and romantic.
FRIEDMAN I was struck by how hard it was to identify which piece came from which designer. When I was talking to the curators, Choghakate Kazarian and Kristina Parsons, they acknowledged that when you think of Chloé, you don't really think of a person. They wanted to change that, but after seeing the show I wonder if that was not actually the point: Gaby Aghion didn't make a brand for herself, she made one for all women. She deliberately left herself out. And try as they might, the curators can't quite get her back in.
LAKIN This is actually the most interesting part of the exhibition: contrapuntal to nearly every other founder-designer in fashion history, Aghion wasn't interested in becoming a brand name. She was after something modern -- an ease of dressing, and recognized it would take more people than she to accomplish: "I have no talent. I recognize the talent in others," she said. It's the difference between something like Expressionism, which overwhelms you with the virtuoso gesture of the artist, and Conceptualism, where the idea is the thing, which anyone could execute.
Aghion's insistence on ceding the mantle of the individualist ends up looking like a profound choice, and -- perhaps -- reflective of a kabbalist idea: "There are six hundred thousand letters in the Torah," each unique as every person is, but meaningless without the rest -- that our individual strengths are only fully pronounced in concert within the collective. The exhibition deliberately avoids this spiritualism, as it seems Aghion did. And yet, by dint of where the show is taking place, that spiritualism is invited. It's a triumph of her vision, one that's proven endlessly elastic, that we're still talking about it.
Mood of the Moment: Gaby Aghion and the House of Chloé
Through Feb. 18, 2024, the Jewish Museum, 1109 5th Avenue, Manhattan, (212) 423-3200; thejewishmuseum.org.
Photograph A gallery at the Jewish Museum on the Upper East Side displays 50 different Chloé blouses created over the course of the brand's existence; though they are by multiple designers, they convey the same spirit and aesthetic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT RUDD/THE JEWISH MUSEUM) (C1); The Chloé designer and the year (clockwise from top left): a parka by Gabriela Hearst and Sheltersuit, 2021; chiffon by Clare Waight Keller, 2016; a T-shirt and fringed skirt by Natacha Ramsay-Levi, 2019; a hand-painted silk crepe by Karl Lagerfeld, 1967. Far left, from top: a young Gaby Aghion near her hometown, Alexandria, Egypt; a 1958 Chloé show at Brasserie Lipp in Paris. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHLOÉ ARCHIVE, PARIS; PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIEN T. HAMON/THE JEWISH MUSEUM; PHILIPPE AGHION AND CHLOÉ ARCHIVE, PARIS; CHLOÉ ARCHIVE, PARIS); Dresses in the Chloé exhibition at the Jewish Museum are displayed on hangers, the better to connect them to real life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARIO LASAGNI/THE JEWISH MUSEUM) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Design; Museums; Designers

Location: New York; United States--US

People: McCartney, Stella; Aghion, Gaby

Company / organization: Name: Brooklyn Museum; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/20/arts/design/chloe-jewish-museum-gaby-aghion.html

Title: Unseen Legacy With Quiet Jewish Roots:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 24, 2023

column: Exhibition Review

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2880614452

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unseen-legacy-with-quiet-jewish-roots/docview/2880614452/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Life Bends Their Way: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-bends-their-way/docview/2879660119/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The new Netflix series is about a famous athlete and his famous family. But it's also a love story told through fashion.
Netflix has a new most popular show. "Beckham," which was released Oct. 4, is a splashy four-part documentary series about one of the most famous footballers of all time.
In the series, David Beckham now 48, charts his journey from working-class obscurity in south London to a young star at Manchester United, captain of the England squad and half of one of the biggest celebrity couples in contemporary pop culture. His wife of 24 years, Victoria Beckham -- once known as Posh Spice -- supports him from the sidelines. Viewers are treated to interviews with his tight-knit family and a constellation of teammates, celebrity friends and even some of the paparazzi who built careers on chasing the Beckhams' every move.
The doc takes us from the 1990s and the duo's matching leather catsuits through their flamboyant purple wedding outfits, his varied hairstyles as he moves to clubs like Real Madrid and LA Galaxy and her hair extensions and the microshorts that defined her WAG era through to complimentary cashmere and denim looks of the present day.
Vanessa Friedman There are many reasons to watch the Netflix Beckham documentary, but the sheer joy of going down that turn-of-the-millennium fashion hole has got to be one. It was like a mini history lesson in style (and style faux pas).
Guy Trebay It was a millennium fashion hole for sure -- their purple wedding suits, for example. But I found it way more enjoyable as a snapshot of class. The period mostly covered in the first two episodes was an open time of flouting the class divide.
Elizabeth Paton Their engagement in 1998 could have been a royal one, there was so much delirium about it. It is hard to overestimate how obsessed the world -- but particularly the British public -- were with their his-and-hers fashion efforts. The double denim looks. Matching black leather catsuits from Gucci (at a Versace party). The fact her hair was shorter than his.
G.T. Bullingdon boys didn't wear Mohawks.
Stella Bugbee His hair was an important subplot in this series -- the many bleach jobs and half-ponytails dovetail with the changes in his career. The filmmakers seem to implicate his shaved his head as the catalyst for the rift that would send him packing from Manchester United. His buzz cut spawned a craze for young fans who shaved their heads to look like him. He appears to have enjoyed that relationship with his fans and used his hair as a tool for hype.
V.F. Sometimes his hair was apparently styled by Victoria! Even just after she gave birth, when he had to face the press, he asked her to fix his hair first. I was struck by how much she seemed to be shaping his image behind the scenes, but I appreciate a man who is willing to admit to his vanity. To pick up the wedding thread: Royal is the right word, Lizzie. Down to the matching purple outfits -- which they laugh about now.
E.P. Soccer is a macho arena. And here is David Beckham, wearing a purple suit, or being photographed wearing a sarong. That was genuinely groundbreaking for a celebrity like him in 1998.
G.T. The sarong was important -- and I return to class here -- because lads and lager louts were not wearing skirts.
V.F. The sarong speaks to his -- and her -- ambition for careers beyond the original game of football and pop music. Victoria always understood image creation. It's also telling that the first public sign of their relationship was he gave her a Cartier watch to match his own. In some ways, this is a love story told in clothes.
G.T. They are low key in the doc -- his wool pullover, her jeans and tee.
E.P. It's interesting to note the evolution from them wearing identical outfits to their gently complementary looks now. Their tendency to twin hasn't gone away. Just matured.
V.F. The designer list from her WAG years was very flashy: Dolce & Gabbana, Roberto Cavalli, Antonio Berardi.
S.B. What she wore wasn't a big part of this series, which seems like a deliberate choice -- Vanessa pointed out that they don't even mention her career as a serious designer. Obviously it's a show that forefronts him, but it's still a miss.
V.F. Victoria seems to be positioning herself in the background, as the less showy person. We don't see her closet, but we get a glimpse of David's, which is extraordinary.
S.B. His meticulous closet! The documentary doesn't care about what's in it as much as the way it shows his O.C.D. tendencies -- which they hint at in other parts of the filming, too -- the compulsive neatness in the kitchen, for example.
G.T. The most human part of him, the least managed -- or manageable -- is the O.C.D. There's a moment where he adjusts a clothes hanger by a millimeter.
V.F. I was struck by his attention to detail for the Miami club -- picking the pink, having a pink net, picking the team's suits. He is still very attuned to image. In the documentary, you realize how much he changed the game when it comes to footballers and brands. Messi (the Messi store), Neymar and L.V. -- Beckham really opened up those possibilities. Now he seems to be actively managing his own transition to owner.
E.P. I don't know how it's been received in the U.S., but in the U.K., people are feeling very nostalgic and fuzzy toward the couple, if probably slightly guilty about the hideous way in which celebrities in the 1990s and 2010s were treated. It's a master class in keeping your personal brand positive.
Elizabeth Paton, Vanessa Friedman, Guy Trebay and Stella Bugbee contributed reporting.
Elizabeth Paton, Vanessa Friedman, Guy Trebay and Stella Bugbee contributed reporting.
Photograph Victoria and David Beckham: a love story told through clothes. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page ST9.

Subject: Weddings; Celebrities; Fashion designers; Hairstyles

People: Beckham, David

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/15/fashion/beckham-netflix-documentary-style.html

Title: Life Bends Their Way:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 22, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879660119

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/life-bends-their-way/docview/2879660119/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-2 2

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Miuccia Prada: [TGreats]

Author: Haramis, Nick

Publication info: Haramis, Nick. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/miuccia-prada/docview/2879660041/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The designer reimagined fashion's relationship to art -- and forever transformed what the world considers beautiful.
EVEN BEFORE HEADING from the Fondazione Prada, a contemporary art complex housed in an old distillery on the southeastern edge of Milan, to Miuccia Prada's office about a mile away, I'm reminded of her towering presence everywhere I look. A docent, dressed in a black Prada uniform, shepherds a pair of tourists, both carrying Prada handbags, into a screening of "Four Unloved Women, Adrift on a Purposeless Sea, Experience the Ecstasy of Dissection," a short film by the Canadian director David Cronenberg accompanied by a wunderkammer of 18th-century anatomical wax sculptures. Once outside, I pass an abandoned rail yard and billboards for two other Fondazione exhibitions: a permanent re-creation of the home studio in Switzerland where Jean-Luc Godard edited his final movie, and a survey of videos, photographs and other works by the New York-based artist Dara Birnbaum on view at the Osservatorio, a satellite venue overlooking Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, the shopping arcade where Mario Prada, Miuccia's maternal grandfather, opened the brand's first store in 1913. Down another few blocks, an old woman in a pair of Prada sunglasses walks by with her dog.
At 75, Mrs. Prada, as she's known to strangers and friends alike, is perhaps the most peculiar and certainly the most innovative fashion designer of her generation. In 1975, she took over her family's leather goods business. Two years later, she met her future husband, Patrizio Bertelli, now 77 and the chairman of the Prada Group, with whom she began building a global empire. (In 2022, the company's annual revenue was $ 4.5 billion.) In addition to Prada, the couple has ownership stakes in Miu Miu, which might be described as Prada's unruly niece; the footwear brands Church's and Car Shoe; and the Pasticceria Marchesi pastry shops. (As of last year, they can also claim some of those dusty train tracks: Prada Holding, which owns 80 percent of the Prada Group and is controlled by the Prada family, is one of three entities that acquired the plot of disused land for roughly $ 190 million to convert it into a park, housing, offices and the Olympic Village for the 2026 Winter Games.)
Those with no interest in fashion have at least seen the house's triangular logo and know Prada's name, whether through movies (in 1999's teen comedy "10 Things I Hate About You," a student explains, "There's a difference between like and love. Because I like my Skechers, but I love my Prada backpack") and TV shows (in a 2019 episode of "The Simpsons," Homer relieves himself behind "Prada Marfa," a replica of a Prada store created in 2005 near Marfa, Texas, by the artists Elmgreen & Dragset), books (Lauren Weisberger's 2003 novel, "The Devil Wears Prada," which became a hit film) or music (Beyoncé, Doja Cat and Drake have all name-checked the brand). And yet no matter how far and wide her influence extends, Prada hasn't made it easy to know her, which is, like everything she does, deliberate.
Upon my arrival at the Prada headquarters, a set of stern buildings that occupy approximately 108,000 square feet, I'm confronted by my potential expulsion: the notorious stainless-steel slide connecting the designer's third-floor work space to the courtyard. The German artist Carsten Höller, who installed it in 2000, says it was intended to help her "leave quickly, traveling through the floor under her office to have a glance at the people working there and then land right where her chauffeur is waiting." But, he adds, "It's also a good way to get rid of people."
INTERVIEWING MIUCCIA PRADA, unlike talking to her, can be a tricky enterprise. From her desk in an austere room with white walls and poured concrete floors -- what might be mistaken for an operating theater, were it not for the Gerhard Richter painting and a silver bar cart stacked with cookies -- she seems to begin every other sentence with, "Between us. ..." She is 5-foot-4, with hazel eyes and wavy blond hair, and has the measured confidence of someone who's about to deliver the bad news first. Despite her warmth and frequent laughter, she also seems ready, maybe even eager, to spar. She, too, is recording the conversation and taking notes. When I ask what she does to relax, her answer is "no."
Although she's less inscrutable than her intellectual peers -- Rei Kawakubo rarely speaks to journalists; Martin Margiela never has -- she's certainly not as flamboyant as Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana or Donatella Versace, flashier designers from the height of Italy's sex-bomb era. And while she refuses to acknowledge personal achievements ("I leave it to other people to say what I did," she says), she's not above engaging in some mythmaking of her own: There's a reason her last fragrance was called Paradoxe.
"If Harvard was a billionaire woman, it would be Miuccia Prada," says the Italian artist Francesco Vezzoli, her close friend and frequent travel companion. The Belgian stylist Olivier Rizzo, who has worked with her since 2005, tells me she's changed the way we dress and think about clothing "on every possible level on all levels forever and ever." She's "a challenger," says the Italian creative director Ferdinando Verderi, who has consulted for the brand since 2019. "She'd even challenge the idea of being a challenger." The American artist Theaster Gates, chairman of Prada's Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Council, says, "If you're trying to get a character sketch of Miuccia, she's [expletive] sincere. And sincerity is better than being right all the time." The actress Uma Thurman, who developed a relationship with the designer after wearing a lilac Prada gown to the 1995 Oscars, likens her to "a growing tree, letting herself have new barks," while the musician Frank Ocean, who was photographed for the brand's spring 2020 campaign, draws an analogy between her "tone," he says -- "how she resonates, basically" -- and the meditative sound of om. The Italian gallerist Carla Sozzani, the founder of the 10 Corso Como concept store in Milan, who remembers "applauding like children" with her friend at runway shows in the 1970s, says, "Some people are more reserved when they're in public. I'm not saying she's another person [in private], but she's more open."
Though that might be accurate, it's also true that no other female designer has produced such a robust body of autobiographical work. (The punk iconoclast Vivienne Westwood came closest; one screamed, the other sublimates.) Prada may not seem especially eager to reveal herself in conversation, but she's always communicated more freely through her clothes, which make the case against what she calls "cliché beauty" and "the isolation of fashion." Instead, she has grounded her work in the idea of a uniform -- she's as likely to find inspiration in nuns as in sex workers -- craving the proximity to what she considers more noble, or at least more honest, professions. If Yves Saint Laurent created a wardrobe for the modern woman in the 1960s, then Prada, a champion of bad taste and the jolie laide, gave her permission to be weird and mercurial; to be, in a sense, her. "One of the reasons I started doing clothes was because I couldn't find anything to wear," she says.
It's almost as if she comes up with her designs because they could be -- and maybe so that they will be -- deemed unflattering or unsexy. "She's always looking for something that's unseen," says the Russian stylist Lotta Volkova, who consults for Miu Miu, which was established in 1993 as a less intellectualized and slightly less expensive alternative to Prada. Earlier this year, at Miu Miu's fall 2023 show in Paris, some of the models wore underwear as outerwear; many had frizzy hair and cowlicks. The British hairstylist Guido Palau, who contributed to his first Prada show in 2004, says that the designer wanted the models to look as if they'd been caught in a gust of wind. A few seasons earlier, for Miu Miu's spring 2022 collection, Prada delivered raw-edge chino micro-miniskirts belted below the hip bone. "Sometimes it's the breasts, sometimes it's the back," she says about fashion's obsession with the female form. "What wasn't trendy was the lower waist, so I said, 'Let's make it as low as possible."' The garment, which was her way of poking fun at things like fashion magazines, showed up in all of them.
"It's a lot about being against something," she says. Prada's spring 1996 collection, its first of many "ugly chic" offerings, incorporated jarring colors (rust, mustard and "bile green," as one critic would call it) and banal prints (later described as "Formica"), a response to the relentless sex appeal at the time of brands like Gucci, then stewarded by Tom Ford. But for fall 2002, to avoid being reduced to her somewhat prim, vaguely retro aesthetic -- which had, however improbably, come to define Italian style as much as an Armani suit -- she released what became known as a "porno chic" collection of transparent PVC coats and knee-high black leather boots. "Clothes were never about doing clothes," she says. "It's about living different parts of your personality."
PRADA STILL RESIDES in the Milanese apartment where she and her two older siblings, Marina and Alberto, grew up. In 1958, her mother, Luisa Prada -- a "beautiful, elegant lady," says Sozzani -- took over Miuccia's grandfather's shop, which she then ran for nearly 20 years. Her father, Luigi Bianchi, owned a company that made putting-green mowers. The details of that period bore her. "Nothing bad, nothing good," she says. But she sits a bit straighter when it comes to her teenage years. "That," she says, "was the big political moment."
While enrolled at the University of Milan (where she also earned a Ph.D. in political science), Miu Miu, as she'd been known to her family since childhood, joined the youth-led demonstrations and worker strikes that became referred to across Europe as the protests of 1968 (an era that in Italy would morph into the violent Years of Lead). "I really believed we could transform the world," says Prada, who also studied mime for five years at Milan's Piccolo Teatro. When she was a young member of the Union of Italian Women, a feminist offshoot of the Communist Party, the films of Godard and Pier Paolo Pasolini, both avowed Marxists then, greatly influenced her; fashion, on the other hand, was considered an inconsequential pursuit. "I was ashamed," she says. "But nevertheless, I pursued it because I liked it."
She was also compelled by a sense of duty. "I started kind of against my will," she admits. "Somehow it just happened." A couple of years after taking control of the company, she attended a trade show where she met Bertelli, who had recently given up on an engineering degree to run a leather factory that manufactured belts and bags. "We started as competition, and we're still competing," she says fondly. "In the end, that's something that keeps us together."
People tend to speak about Bertelli, a shrewd industrialist who collects vintage sports cars and sails several yachts -- and with whom Prada has two children, Lorenzo Bertelli, 35, the Prada Group's head of corporate social responsibility, and Giulio Bertelli, 33, a sailboat racer -- as if they were describing a movie villain they're secretly rooting for. "He has amazing charm," says Sozzani. "You have to love Bertelli. Or you don't." Francesco Risso, Marni's creative director and a member of Prada's design team for eight years until 2016, recalls "the most theatrical fights" between the couple. "It didn't feel unhealthy ever, but it felt like fireworks, that's for sure," he says. But as much as they might bicker -- he was initially against, for example, her decision to do a sneaker collaboration; she released it anyway -- Bertelli is also quite protective of her: Seldom does one approach Prada about a project without going through him first.
"If I hadn't met my husband, I don't know if I would've done this job," says Prada, who set out opening factories with Bertelli and creating an international brand for "good women, bad women -- the richness of all these different people." The designer, who has no formal training and doesn't sketch, begins each collection with concepts rather than silhouettes. One of her earliest pieces, in 1984, was a statement of intent: a modest backpack made not from crocodile or calfskin but black Pocono, an army-grade nylon more commonly associated at the time with parachutes than with purses. Nearly 40 years later, that utilitarian bag and its many iterations remain unlikely objects of desire. "Any bourgeois subject that I approached," she says, "I always wanted to destroy it." (Well, maybe not any bourgeois subject: "You shouldn't eat, you shouldn't drink, you should just work and work and work," Risso recalls Prada telling him at one of his first staff meetings. "I could see that she was trying to push me to be better.")
With the 1988 debut of her ready-to-wear line -- some models came out in black and brown jackets inspired by men's tailoring, others in hot pink dresses with 1950s silhouettes; almost all of them in flats -- she introduced house codes that now include specific garments and accessories (knee-length skirts, bucket hats) and signature styles (geometric prints, color blocking). It's often said that she and her trusted design director, Fabio Zambernardi (who is leaving the brand this month after more than three decades), determine the trends one season that others follow the next, which, though true, is incomplete; the clothes are only one part of it. At some point, it became almost obligatory for luxury brands to mount cultural, educational or philanthropic initiatives. But back then, she was the only one. "Basically, now every fashion house is a cultural platform," says Vezzoli. "Bottega Veneta does a show with Gaetano Pesce chairs and Gaetano Pesce becomes the most sought-after Italian designer. Saint Laurent produces a movie for Pedro Almodóvar. But Prada did it 30 years ago."
The Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas, whose research and design studio, AMO, has created the environments for every Prada show since 2004, says that each season the conversation starts with a word or two to "trigger intentions." The prompts for the spring 2024 men's presentation, which featured curtains of slime dripping from the ceiling down to an industrial steel grate on the floor -- the cascading goo also made an appearance at September's spring 2024 women's show -- were "creepy," "flesh and skin" and "organic minimalism." James Jean, a Taiwanese American painter who in 2007 designed the wallpaper for the brand's SoHo store (his drawings of fantastical creatures and flowers were later printed on Art Nouveau-inspired skirts, trousers and bags for the spring 2008 collection), recalls their project beginning with three adjectives: "romantic," "nonlinear" and "surreal." The French sound artist Frédéric Sanchez, who has scored most Prada shows since the mid-90s, was, in a similar way, also creating for an idea of clothes rather than a finished garment. "With Margiela," says Sanchez about his other longtime collaborator, "it was very physical"; sometimes they'd even repeat the same soundtrack season after season. His experience with Prada, he says, has been more "cerebral."
It's difficult to overstate how radically Prada has changed the landscape of contemporary luxury, a word she hates ("hate," on the other hand, is one she really likes). These days, every reference seems to lead back to her, whether it's a padded headband or a utility vest. Such a fixture is Prada on other designers' mood boards that for her spring 2000 collection -- which she referred to as "the ABC of fashion" -- she paid homage not only to the work of Yves Saint Laurent but also, rather cheekily, to her own, in the form of reinterpreted cardigans and schoolboy shorts. And yet, what Prada has put out into the world feels more substantial and transgressive than a khaki crop top or the very notion of so-called quiet luxury -- both things, mind you, that came from her. "It's much cooler than being eccentric," says the designer Marc Jacobs, a friend of hers. "With Mrs. Prada, it's that thing of style with substance. It's not just a shell that looks good."
THE SOUL OF the Fondazione Prada is the Haunted House, a four-story gilded tower that contains work by the sculptors Robert Gober and Louise Bourgeois. On the second floor, there's a Bourgeois installation called "Cell (Clothes)" (1996), in which pants and dresses appear to be trapped by a ring of wooden doors. On the top floor, there's a 2010 wax sculpture by Gober of a child's leg -- almost Prada-like in a white sandal and matching ankle sock -- weighed down by an anchor. There are no other clothes on this floor. Instead, Gober has installed a storm drain with water running beneath it. Under the metal bars, among the rocks and debris, sits an illuminated heart -- discarded, but still beating.
Journalists inevitably like to bring up Prada's political past, and not just because she likes to bring it up, too -- though as a New Yorker article about her from 2004 notes, "in the '60s it was almost a rite of passage for thousands of young middle-class Italians" to join the Communist Party. Prada, however, does seem to have a genuine need to reconcile the idealism of her youth with the choices she's made since; and if ambivalence can be paralyzing, in her case it appears to have had the opposite effect. In 1993, her days of on-the-ground protest behind her -- she'd long stopped handing out flyers at rallies -- Prada and Bertelli created Milano Prada Arte, which later became the Fondazione Prada. It would give them a place to house their growing art collection but, for Prada, it also became a way to funnel her revolutionary spirit -- and her money. "I tell my people in the Fondazione all the time to thank me," she says. "I have to sell a lot of expensive handbags to run a museum." ("Handbags are not art," the British sculptor and painter Damien Hirst, a friend, recalls her saying. "Whereas when you meet other people, they're constantly telling you that they are art, and you need 100.")
From the beginning, Prada has been dutifully managing and scrutinizing every detail of the Fondazione's programming -- even showing up at Gober's studio in Manhattan to convince him to contribute. Gober remembers that when she appeared on his doorstep, she said, "Like everything else, I have to do this myself!" (Her exit was equally quotable: When Gober sent her home with some books, she took one look at the tote bag he offered and said, "I'll carry them.") In 1999, she and Bertelli dropped in on Koolhaas at his studio in Rotterdam in the Netherlands. "They were bored with their stores," Koolhaas says, and wanted him to oversee the construction of their New York flagship. "All my friends in the art world, or let's say in the cultural sector, were extremely skeptical whether this would be a desirable collaboration," he says. Koolhaas reimagined the Epicenter, as it's called, on the site of what was once the Guggenheim Museum's SoHo location, with an undulating wood floor and motorized hanging displays. In 2008, OMA, Koolhaas's firm, was hired to design the Fondazione Prada.
Thirty years in, having worked tirelessly to earn her place in the art world, Prada has chosen to become the new director of the foundation. "My main track is [the Fondazione Prada]," she says. "I'd decided that I wanted to keep it separate from fashion. And no one knew -- I never told anybody." As she deliberates over what to say next, I'm reminded of something that the filmmaker Wes Anderson -- who's partnered with her on various film and art projects and who designed Bar Luce, the 1950s-style cafe at the Fondazione Prada -- told me. "You quickly sense her vulnerability, which can sort of disappear from a person with such authority. I think without a bit of that, you can't quite reach them. She can be fearless, but I don't think she's fearless," he wrote in an email. "Maybe it's because I'm getting older," Prada continues, "but I want to reconcile my whole life and declare my job: I run the Fondazione."
"She's properly a patron," says Hirst. "She really, genuinely sees art as something beneficial to other people." And unlike almost every other collector who tells him they're building a museum, he says, she actually did. The two were out to dinner one night when Hirst, who grew up working class, ordered caviar for the table. Prada sighed. "I really struggle to eat caviar," she said. "Why would you struggle with that?" he recalls saying. "And she was like, 'Oh, I was a communist."'
FOR THE PAST few years, Miuccia Prada hasn't had to do quite as much all by herself. In February 2020, just before the pandemic forced Italy into lockdown, the Belgian designer Raf Simons was announced as her co-creative director. The two of them, she said, would be jointly responsible for Prada's women's and men's wear going forward. (She's still the sole designer at Miu Miu; "When I change floors, I change mentalities," she says.) The next day, Simons flew home to Antwerp. Upon his return to Milan that June, he mostly communicated with Prada through a screen.
It was a challenging start to an ambitious experiment. They both had simple reasons for wanting it to succeed. Prada was, as she puts it, "fed up working alone." She was also, of course, planning her succession. "But they don't want me to talk about that because they're afraid it looks like I want to leave," she says. "I don't want to leave at all." Simons, 55, had briefly worked for Prada and Bertelli before going to Dior and then Calvin Klein. (He was the creative director of Jil Sander from 2005 until 2012; the Prada Group sold the brand in 2006.) Following his two-year stint at Calvin Klein, a tumultuous period he describes as "hysteria," he'd vowed to never again run someone else's fashion brand.
"I'm not a stupid guy," says Simons, who now lives in the Milanese apartment where the first Prada shows took place. When Bertelli reached out to set up a meeting, Simons says he knew they wouldn't be discussing Church's shoes. "It was more like, 'Miuccia and I, this is our age, this is our reality,"' he recalls Bertelli saying. (In January, she and Bertelli stepped down as co-chief executive officers of the Prada Group and were replaced by Andrea Guerra, formerly the chief executive officer of the Luxottica eyewear conglomerate. Their son Lorenzo is expected to assume the role down the line.) Prada had wondered if Simons, who'd overseen his own cultish men's wear brand for 24 years at that point (the line has since been discontinued), might want to look after the men's collections. "But in three seconds," says Prada, Simons suggested, " 'Why don't we do the two together?' And I immediately said, 'Yes, why not."'
In practice, they couldn't be more different. Simons, whose cool aesthetic conveys restraint, would rather adhere to deadlines; she "loves to design today what needs to go on the runway tomorrow," he says. And yet they share an aversion to traditional clothes. "It wasn't a shock, like, 'Oh my god, what a left-field choice,"' says Marc Jacobs. "If I were doing this movie, I'd have cast Raf."
After years of having to make every decision on her own -- even now, she's thinking about the most recent installment of "Women's Tales," Miu Miu's ongoing short film series, by the Croatian-born director Antoneta Alamat Kusijanović, and the Fondazione's next two art shows -- Prada is relieved to sit down with Simons and discuss the upcoming women's collection. "Listen," she says the day after the men's show in June from her office, where she's spent part of the morning reading the (good) reviews. "Every single moment you have to have ideas on so many things. Your brain evaporates." Recently, she and Simons have resolved, at least temporarily, not to divulge the references or describe the characters in their collections with the world. "I decided that I didn't want to tell stories anymore," she says. "We'll see how long it lasts."
When it comes to how her own story is eventually told, she hopes not to have, as she puts it, "thrown my life out on superficial things." Her goal, today, as it was in 1968, is to have done something good. "And deep down," she says, "political." But on my way out, I ask Prada if she ever wonders how her life might have looked had she not become a designer. "Always," she says without hesitation. Then, as the elevator door begins to close between us, she smiles. "And never."

Models: Elio Berenett at Next Management, Saunders at Oui Management, Awar Odhiang at Ford Models, Jonas Glöer at Lumien Creative, Chloe Nguyen at Select Model Management Paris, Estrella Gomez at IMG Models and America Gonzalez at Supreme. Hair by Cim Mahony at LGA. Makeup by Marie Duhart at Bryant Artists. Set design by Rafael Medeiros. Casting by DM Casting.

Subject: Motion picture directors & producers; Fashion designers

Company / organization: Name: Miu Miu; NAICS: 315210, 315990, 316210; Name: Prada SpA; NAICS: 316210, 316990, 316992, 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/06/t-magazine/miuccia-prada.html

Title: Miuccia Prada:   [TGreats ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: M2.114

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 22, 2023

Section: M2

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879660041

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/miuccia-prada/docview/2879660041/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What's in Your 'Spend the Night' Bag?: [Style Desk]

Author: Cherelus, Gina

Publication info: Cherelus, Gina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/whats-your-spend-night-bag/docview/2878598073/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A toothbrush, sure, but some people bring everything they need to feel comfortable (and a whole lot more) for a romantic overnight.
When Nazani Karakashian, single and 21 years old, prepares to spend a night with a man she's dating, she packs her Gucci duffel bag with products like soaps, deodorant and perfume. And extra outfits and cute pajamas. And her flat iron and toothbrush. And her Hydro Flask bottle and fluffy slippers. And sometimes a fruit bowl to snack on.
While Ms. Karakashian considers herself "an over packer," she stops short of bringing things like her nose tape or red light face mask, despite wanting to.
A "spend the night" bag is for necessary essentials -- things you bring to a partner's home to ensure that you'll look and feel your best in the morning. But what those bags look like depends on your level of spontaneity and need for comfort. What someone packs in their bag depends on many things, like the person they're with, the status of the relationship and the length of the visit. For some couples, it represents the progress of a relationship. It could be as simple as a small pouch of toiletries that stays with you all the time, or be a larger tote, for planned romantic sleepovers.
One 26-year-old man in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn said that if he's spending the night with a woman, what he brings doesn't stretch beyond the bare essentials (like his wallet and keys) and "obviously condoms."
"If it's a more consistent thing, I might graduate to a drawstring bag, maybe a change of clothes or deodorant," he said. When a woman brings a large overnight bag to his place early into dating, he added, he gets suspicious that she might be plotting something serious.
"It's like they're on a mission," he added.
What you leave behind at your partner's place matters, too. Ms. Karakashian recalled accidentally leaving a pair of earrings at a guy's place.
"I guess he had a girlfriend, so it kind of started something," she said, adding that she didn't know he was in a relationship before they got together. "So whatever you pack in your overnight bag, make sure it goes back in your overnight bag."
For Brianna Giannelli, a pre-med student at Binghamton University in New York, packing essentials in her large pink Telfar bag has become a regular occurrence while in her four-and-a-half-year relationship with her boyfriend. Because of this, she brings pretty much whatever she needs, but it wasn't always this way.
"I do a lot of social media, so I always bring my iPad and my laptop," she said. "But I when we first started dating, I would tend to leave those items behind."
After asking my group chat of friends to share some of the things they've brought with them to a lover's home, one admitted that she once packed a pillow because the man she was with had pillows that she described as "stone tablets." Another friend said she once brought a seven-quart Dutch oven because she prefers to cook in her own pots.
Jordan Character is a natural health specialist in Los Angeles, so when he's staying at a woman's home, he brings a change of underwear, socks and an assortment of natural hygiene products that include fluoride-free toothpaste, shea butter and natural soap ("I'm definitely not washing my body with Dove"). He usually carries psychedelic mushrooms and essential oils on him, so that's coming, too.
"I bring my own water as well," he said, adding that it's alkaline. "I'm not trying to get caught up drinking tap water, bro."
He also brings all-natural lube and non-latex condoms: "I just bring one because I don't want to seem like I'm there just for that."
Josh Chou, a 23-year-old mental health clinic coordinator living in Los Angeles, usually packs skin care items like moisturizer and sunscreen because he doesn't "trust" other people's products. The first time his ex-boyfriend spent the night with him, however, he brought over two "huge" trash bags full of stuff. Mr. Chou was understandably surprised.
According to his ex, Derick Polanco, 25, he was running late and decided to throw his things in Hefty bags: "At the time, I don't know what it was, I was rushing and the Uber was there and I didn't really think to get the luggage."
After giving it some thought, this became a way to test Mr. Chou. Initially, he worried that it would look weird to arrive like this, but after a quick call to his best friend, he was advised that if the guy laughs at him, then he isn't a keeper. Thankfully for Mr. Polanco, Mr. Chou wasn't fazed.
Mr. Polanco said he gets anxious and likes to be "prepared for any situation." So he packed about four outfits -- including at least three pants, four tops, a light jacket in case the weather changes and a bunch of bath products. Although he was supposed to leave the next morning, he ended up staying for the weekend.
Send your thoughts, stories and tips to thirdwheel@nytimes.com.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL YEPES/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Packaging; Personal relationships

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/16/style/overnight-bag.html

Title: What's in Your 'Spend the Night' Bag?:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 19, 2023

column: Third Wheel

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--U nited States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878598073

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/whats-your-spend-night-bag/docview/2878598073/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Celebrity Chronicler Is 'Still Hustling': [Style Desk]

Author: Gurley, George

Publication info: Gurley, George. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/celebrity-chronicler-is-still-hustling/docview/2878598056/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The lifestyle journalist George Wayne finds himself in an odd position. Because of money troubles, he says he takes out no more than $ 20 at a time from A.T.M.s. And yet he's a regular at high-end restaurants like Cucina 8 ½ in Midtown Manhattan, where he was sipping a martini at the bar on a September evening toward the end of New York Fashion Week.
"Everyone lunches here," he said. "It's basically a cafeteria for hedge fund managers and big shots. It's very undercover."
He was wearing tinted Oliver Peoples glasses, a Charvet dress shirt, custom pants, a pair of socks decorated with what he called a "bingo" pattern and Gucci loafers. He was at Cucina 8 ½ to attend a fashion show by the designer Cesar Galindo.
Mr. Wayne, who refers to himself as "G.W.," rose to prominence in certain Manhattan circles in the 1980s, when he started R.O.M.E., a photocopied publication filled with gossip and piquant commentary on celebrities, near celebrities, fashion people and nightlife creatures.
With its punky layout and snappy editorial voice, the zine grabbed the attention of media insiders and led him to roles at Interview, Paper Magazine, Allure and Vanity Fair, jobs that sustained him for roughly three decades.
But glossy magazine journalism fell on hard times, and so did he. Now, in a bid to turn things around, Mr. Wayne, 62, is putting the finishing touches on a new issue of R.O.M.E., which he said would be available this fall.
The new issue will be a kind of greatest-hits package meant to bring back the look and feel of pre-internet New York, with some new material thrown in. Mr. Wayne said he planned to print 200 copies and sell them at Left Bank Books in the West Village.
He also spoke of a potential special collector's edition of R.O.M.E., wrapped in cellophane, that would be shown at the Georges Bergès Gallery in SoHo. But on Tuesday he said that part of the plan was in jeopardy because of a dispute with the gallery's owner.
Mr. Bergès, who presented the debut solo exhibition of Hunter Biden's paintings in 2021, said on Tuesday that he intended to go through with showing R.O.M.E. at his gallery. "We will have one properly displayed on the wall as art," he said.
In an earlier interview, Mr. Bergès noted that his disagreements with Mr. Wayne were nothing new. "We get in fights and we block each other for a month and then unblock each other," he said. "He'll send me huge texts in the middle of the night about how I'm against him and I'm going to destroy him." He added: "Truth be told, he's one of my best friends. I love the guy."
Differences aside, Mr. Bergès described R.O.M.E. as an important part of New York media history. "If you wanted to really get a feel of what was happening culturally or in fashion or with people, R.O.M.E. gave you that," he said. "I think, in many ways, magazines changed the way they were doing things because of R.O.M.E., whether people knew it or not."
In the nearly finished version shared by Mr. Wayne, the new R.O.M.E. is a blast of nostalgia, a scrapbook filled with vintage boldface names: Cindy Adams, Warren Beatty, Barbara Bush, Keith Haring, Rock Hudson, Madonna, Lee Majors, Tennessee Williams, Ed Koch and on and on. It also includes an imaginary conversation with Truman Capote and appreciations of Grace Jones and Naomi Campbell. At press time, Mr. Wayne was going back and forth on whether to include a feature on the 1999 movie "Black and White," in which he and Mike Tyson had cameo roles.
R.O.M.E. had a cult readership in its heyday, and Mr. Wayne is probably best known for his former role as a cheeky interviewer for Vanity Fair. From the mid-1990s until 2015, he sparred his way through interviews with a hodgepodge of celebrities including Milton Berle, Jackie Collins, Fabio, Geraldo Rivera, Donatella Versace and Anna Wintour. His work for Vanity Fair and other magazines was collected in the 2018 book "Anyone Who's Anyone: The Astonishing Celebrity Interviews, 1987-2017."
These days, he is an editor at large for Park, a luxury quarterly magazine sent free to the homes of people in Manhattan with "annual household incomes over $ 500,000," according to its media kit. "That's how I'm surviving," Mr. Wayne said. "Not only do you have to write, you have to go out and try and get ads."
"I'm still hustling at my age," he continued. "When you don't have a Condé Nast contract, it's sink or swim, baby. There are days when I live on $ 1 pizza. And there are days when I have a friend who has a restaurant I can go to and say, 'You got to feed me tonight.' And they will."
Mr. Wayne grew up in Jamaica and attended Munro College, a boarding school in St. Elizabeth. He found his calling at 15, he said, when a school nurse introduced him to People and Interview magazines. "I knew then that I wanted to move to New York City," he said. "I just loved it, reading about Bianca Jagger and Andy Warhol at Studio 54. That was it."
He made it to Manhattan in 1984, shortly after he received a degree in journalism from the University of Georgia. He said he still lived in the same studio apartment near Washington Square that he began renting shortly after his arrival in the city.
"My little hovel is nothing," he said. "I call it Lilliput. There's a bunk bed and filing cabinets stuffed with my archives. That's it."
He came up with the idea for R.O.M.E. during his senior year of college. "I said to my best friend, 'When I go to New York City, I'm going to start my magazine, R.O.M.E., and I'm going to put periods in between the letters,"' he recalled. "It doesn't mean anything. I just thought, 'Make it an acronym.' And I love the word Rome. I've never been to Rome, but I love all it connotes."
He has been assembling the new edition partly at SoHo Works, a members-only work space in Lower Manhattan. He said he was not a member but had managed to talk his way in.
"I want Generation Z to understand what they missed," he said of his venture, between sips of his martini. "I just think these current kids are fascinated by the analog era."
Near the bar, the model Carol Alt was chatting with the owner of Cucina 8 ½, August Ceradini, whom Mr. Wayne referred to as his "number one god-daddy consigliere." Mr. Wayne took out his phone and snapped a picture of the pair.
"How are you, Carol?" he said as she walked by. "You look amazing."
"Thanks," she replied. "You doing good?"
"I'm hanging in there," he said.
Ms. Alt moved with a group of people heading toward a large back room, where the fashion show was about to take place. Andre Landeros Michel, a fashion designer who was also on his way to the show, paused to recall discovering R.O.M.E. in 1992.
"I was like, This is so genius, such a genius idea, and created by Xerox," he said, adding that he appreciated that Mr. Wayne made up for a lack of advertisers by photocopying ads from other magazines and pasting them into R.O.M.E. "If you didn't have the advertisers, just Xerox them anyway," Mr. Landeros Michel said. "He was so ahead of the curve."
Before joining the others at the fashion show, Mr. Wayne polished off his martini and got the attention of the bartender.
"So, Jordan, I'm going to order some food, OK?" he said. "But you're just going to keep it here. I'm going to take it home -- to-go. August said I could get anything I wanted, so I'm going to take him at his word."
He asked for the New York strip steak medium-rare, Tuscan potatoes, broccoli rabe and focaccia. When he tacked on an order for spaghetti, the bartender said it probably wouldn't travel well and suggested tortellini or cavatelli in its place.
"Cavatelli," Mr. Wayne said. "I love you, Jordan. You're the best."
Photograph Left, Mr. Wayne at an event in 1993. Below, from left: an issue of R.O.M.E. from the early '90s; Mr. Wayne and Forest Whitaker at a Vanity Fair Oscars party in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC WEISS/WWD, VIA PENSKE MEDIA, VIA GETTY IMAGES; GEORGE WAYNE; PATRICK McMULLAN, VIA GETTY IMAGES); George Wayne with the new edition of R.O.M.E. He hopes the publication, below, will reach a high-end audience. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KADAR SMALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Bars; Fashion shows; Magazines; Celebrities; Fashion designers; Interviews

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/18/style/george-wayne-rome-magazine.html

Title: A Celebrity Chronicler Is 'Still Hustling':   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 19, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878598056

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/celebrity-chronicler-is-still-hustling/docview/2878598056/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

By and Large, the Status Quo Lives On: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/large-status-quo-lives-on/docview/2875675156/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Why is the industry going backward when it comes to diversity and designers?
It has been a nutso year in designer churn. Last month, three new creative directors made their debuts during Milan Fashion Week: Sabato De Sarno at Gucci, Peter Hawkings at Tom Ford and Simone Bellotti at Bally. The day after Paris Fashion Week ended, Seán McGirr was named designer at Alexander McQueen, replacing Sarah Burton after more than a decade. Less than a week later, Chloé announced its new creative director, Chemena Kamali. Any day now, Moschino is expected to unveil its new designer.
And yet, despite all the changes -- the kind of switcheroos that once would have signaled New Looks and Wardrobe Upheaval and all the stuff that makes what happens inside these brands affect the people who actually wear the products the brands produce -- the result has been largely status quo. In the worst way.
Much has been made of the fact that Mr. McGirr's appointment at Alexander McQueen means that now all six of the fashion brands owned by Kering, the second-largest fashion group in the industry, are run by white male designers -- and not just white male designers, but white male designers with practically the same haircuts, approach to facial hair and résumés. That is not a good look, as the various reactions on social media to the headshots of the group's creative directors made clear.
Designers are, after all, the most visible representations of a brand, or its ownership group. Whatever happens behind that facade -- whatever the makeup of the teams or company board; whatever the diversity initiatives inside -- the designers' faces are the ones the public sees. In this case it looks as if the public reckoning with fashion's history of racism that occurred in the wake of the Black Lives Matter movement never happened. The message those images send is homogeneity at a time when the population they should serve is broader and more varied than ever.
"So many people feel they actually don't belong in this industry, which is supposed to be for everyone, because it dresses everyone, but then its reflection is so opposite to its function," said Thebe Magugu, the young South African designer with a namesake line who won the LVMH prize for young designers in 2019.
Kering declined to comment on how it chose Mr. McGirr or how broad its search was. But the problems are deeper than one group. Fashion today doesn't just have a diversity problem when it comes to race and gender and creative power. It also has a cognitive diversity problem that goes beyond external appearances.
With similar backgrounds and similar experiences come similar perspectives -- and similar designs. In an age of silos and echo chambers, that risks reinforcing a rut rather than escaping one. And if there's one thing fashion, an industry dependent on the ignition of desire, should understand it's that similar designs lead to stasis.
Yet this is a story that occurs again and again and not just in fashion, but in film, publishing and TV. When one strategy seems to work, there is a mad rush to imitate it rather than recognizing that, in creative areas, it is exactly the thing you don't know you want that becomes the most desirable thing; the thing that drives the next cycle of the imitation game. Simply following the pack may be safe, but it does not lead to the shock of success.
It's how we end up with years of superhero movies (until superhero movies stop performing), with unending book series about vampires and faeries and their love affairs with mortal women, with a whole swath of designers hired out of streetwear lines -- until the market gets saturated or the copy of the copy of the original becomes so removed from the source that it is no longer convincing.
Yet currently, the industry model seems to be Up with No. 2! Or find the next big creative director in the shadows of an already successful creative director. That is exactly what is engendering the current spate of sameness, said Alice Bouleau, the head of the creative sector at Sterling International, a global search firm that works with many of the large fashion brands.
By the time anyone gets to that point in the system, she said, the barriers to entry -- be it access to education or being able to take on months of unpaid internships -- have largely weeded out more diverse candidates. Indeed, she said, she believed that about 70 percent, or at least two-thirds, of the designer directors or heads of design in major fashion houses are white men.
Then, the choice of who to name as creative director is largely up to the chief executive, most of whom are (yup) white men. And no matter how varied the candidates for a job, the chief executives are "choosing someone based on their own culture through their own bias," Ms. Bouleau continued. Someone they "click" with.
She was shocked, she said, at "the number of conversations I had with C.E.O.s when we talked about a woman candidate and they asked me, 'Do you think they are ready for this next move?' It's a question very rarely heard about a male candidate and sometimes male candidates were 15 years younger than the woman in question."
At the same time, however, candidates from outside the system -- candidates, and there are plenty of them, who forged their own path and started their own brands precisely because they did not see a system that was welcoming to designers with their profile -- may be reluctant to join an establishment that demands they abandon the companies and communities they have created, even if they are offered the choice.
Mr. Magugu said that since he won the LVMH prize, "I've been approached for four or five things. The last one was quite, quite big. But the ask from each and every one of them was that I completely shut down my brand." (Conventional wisdom seems to change every few years about whether a designer can do more than one brand at a time.)
Currently, Sterling is nearing the end of what Ms. Bouleau said were three major fashion searches, each of which included a number of female finalists. And yet, in at least two of the three, she said she expected the job to go to a white man.
It's possible that one of them may surprise us, of course. Alessandro Michele -- the former Gucci designer who was replaced by Mr. De Sarno and who was one of the last major creative directors to disrupt fashion when he tossed out the old Gucci jet-set kitsch in favor of unfettered historical muchness -- did just that. It was his profile as an inside guy who overturned the norm that may have started the current designer trend.
Still, judging from their debut collections, it seems unlikely that Mr. De Sarno or Mr. Hawkings or Mr. Bellotti are going to ignite similar revolutions. Maybe Mr. McGirr will, when he makes his McQueen debut next February.
Or maybe this will be the moment that sparks another reckoning. Maybe this time, it will actually stick.
Photograph Clockwise from top left: Seán McGirr; Anthony Vaccarello; Demna Gvasalia; Matthieu Blazy; Norbert Stumpfl; and Sabato De Sarno.. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBIN GALIEGUE; JOHANNA GERON/REUTERS; JAMIE McCARTHY/GETTY IMAGES; CARMINE ROMANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DIA DIPASUPIL/GETTY IMAGES; VALERIA CHERCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: White people; Design; Workplace diversity; Superheroes; Candidates; Motion picture directors & producers; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Workplace diversity

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/11/style/designers-kering-diversity.html

Title: By and Large, the Status Quo Lives On:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 12, 2023

column: Unbuttoned

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2875675156

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/large-status-quo-lives-on/docview/2875675156/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Silly Stepping Into the Uncanny Valley: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Fuhrer, Margaret

Publication info: Fuhrer, Margaret. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silly-stepping-into-uncanny-valley/docview/2873868607/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some dancers have found a niche on TikTok and other platforms imitating video game characters -- moving like a machine's idea of a human.
Watch a TikTok video by @dem_bruddaz, and you might feel a queasy mixture of recognition and disorientation.
You'll see, say, a person running down a street. But wait -- is it a person? Why does he turn at such precise 45-degree angles? Why are his gestures so oddly exaggerated? And is that a Grand Theft Auto theme song playing in the background? Maybe this is a clip from a video game. Or is it some A.I.-generated approximation of a video game?
Though select commenters refuse to believe it, @dem_bruddaz actually are people, the real-life brothers Orlando Murayire, Fernando Shami, Freddy Sheja and Aristide Shema. Based in western France, they've built a global following by imitating, with disquieting accuracy, the ambiguously human movements of characters from the video game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.
There's a reason they're so good at capturing the idiosyncrasies of the game's animation: They're dancers, accustomed to identifying and replicating subtle shadings of movement -- the kinds of details that make their videos so unsettling.
However unreal the clips seem, making them "feels comfortable to us," said Shema, who with his brothers grew up immersed in hip-hop, Afrobeat and dancehall. "They just feel like dancing."
As our screen-filled world seems more like a video game, and sophisticated video games seem more like real life, social media savants have found success with content that deliberately confuses the two. Over the summer, the mainstream internet was both thrilled and flummoxed to discover NPC streamers, creators who earn very real money by repeating the formulaic phrases uttered by video games' "non-player characters," or NPCs ("Mmm, ice cream so good").
But while NPC streaming highlights games' unnatural speech, dancers are particularly adept at moving like a machine's version of a human. That helps creators like Shema and his brothers -- and the Polish dancers Nicole Hoff and Oskar Szymkowski, who create videos in which they move through the world as NPCs -- capture more of what makes video games distinctive, weird and funny. NPC streaming content tends to provoke befuddlement among non-gamers. These dancers' game parodies, which routinely earn millions of views, are easier for the average viewer to laugh and shudder along with.
Dance has always lived at the center of TikTok, which rode to mainstream popularity on a wave of dance challenges. The video game spoofs aren't only on TikTok -- they're also found on Instagram and YouTube -- and not all of their creators are professional dancers. But Dr. Jessica Maddox, an assistant professor at the University of Alabama who studies social media platforms, thinks that the way they use dancers' skills ties into a recent shift in TikTok culture.
"To me, these videos hearken back to the fun, silly earlier aesthetic of TikTok that many people seem eager to return to," Maddox said. It's a pushback against the once-freewheeling app's slow march toward slickness and commercialism. "At the same time," she said, "they obviously take a huge amount of skill and control." They do silliness with a dancer's finesse.
It was dance, not video games, that inspired Hoff and Szymkowski, who use the handle @loczniki, to create their first game parodies. As specialists in a style of popping called animation, which mimics the movements of characters from games, movies and cartoons, the duo has experience channeling digital avatars. Their most popular video series imagines what it would be like to have an NPC girlfriend, capturing the strange quirks of non-player characters from The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. Hoff and Szymkowski discovered the game when it appeared in their YouTube searches for video game glitches.
"All the mistakes -- the character getting stuck somewhere, or walking in one place because there's a wall -- we hadn't played Skyrim, but we knew those would be funny to imitate," Hoff said. (After their videos began to go viral, the pair did start playing Skyrim, searching for further inspiration.)
Why do video game avatars move so oddly? Sometimes the humor derives from the nature of gameplay. In most games, a limited animation system is trying to keep up with the input of a player mashing button after button on a control. That leads to characters doing things real people would never do: crouching suddenly, turning rapidly in different directions, continuing running motions after hitting a wall.
While animators can help those movements look smoother and more natural, doing so often makes playing the game harder. "Gameplay animation is a lot of jigsaw pieces," said Melissa Shim, a senior animator at Riot Games. "In real life, when you stop moving, you gradually come to a stop. But in a game, that gradualness would take away from responsiveness, making the player feel less in control."
Many video game characters also have a floaty quality to their movements, as if drifting underwater. That has partly to do with how animators use data from motion-capture sessions with human actors.
When motion-capture sensors record a person's movements, "there's something lost," Shim said. "There are slight variations and gaps in the data that can make the movement feel softer and slower." Or the issue might be more analog. Motion-capture artists sometimes have to wear bulky battery packs around their waists, which they avoid disturbing by floating their arms slightly away from their bodies -- an NPC signature.
Animation and dance are linked in their close analysis of bodily movement, and some of these issues sound like problems dancers could help solve. Game studios do sometimes bring in dancers, as well as athletes and stunt professionals, for motion-capture sessions. Shim says she'll frequently look at videos of dancers when choreographing complicated attack combinations.
The game-parody videos close a kind of loop: They feature dancers imitating digital avatars based on other talented human movers. (In a particularly surreal twist, earlier this year, Hoff and Szymkowski donned motion-capture suits to create digital NPCs based on their imitations of NPCs.)
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas came out in 2004, and The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim in 2011. Over the last decade-plus, technological improvements have made it easier to address the glitches and peculiarities that made earlier game animation so strange. Rather than manually assembling combinations of motion-capture data to fit various scenarios, for example, animators can now use motion-matching algorithms to scan a large library of data for relevant movement sequences, which both speeds up the animation process and helps create a greater variety of movement.
Since today's video game characters move more naturally, nostalgia -- which TikTok trades in heavily -- is part of the appeal of the Grand Theft Auto and Skyrim spoofs. Shema said he and his brothers deliberately chose to riff on Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas rather than the more recent Grand Theft Auto V. "We wanted more people to relate -- older people who played the game as kids, younger ones who think it looks funny," he said.
The success of these videos has led to notable opportunities for their creators. Shema and his brothers have made Grand Theft Auto-inspired ads for Kia and Gucci. Hoff and Szymkowski built an entire course that will teach you how to move like an NPC, and have appeared in a music video. They're also working on longer scripted NPC films for YouTube.
And these creators continue to make game imitation videos that regularly rack up millions of views and hundreds of thousands of likes. The internet has an insatiable appetite for content that toes the increasingly blurry line between the real and the digital, and dancers are especially good at blurring that line.
"The best compliment we can get on our videos," Hoff said, "is someone saying, 'Oh, at first I thought these were real people. But now I see it's fake. It's from a game."'
Photograph Top, Oskar Szymkowski and Nicole Hoff, who use the handle @loczniki, at home in Bugaj, Poland, and above, striking a pose on a street. They specialize in a style of popping called animation and create video parodies in which they move through the world as NPCs, or non-player characters, in video games. In France, four real-life brothers have built a global following as @dem_bruddaz, imitating characters from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, above left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNA LIMINOWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR8.

Subject: Motion capture; Computer & video games; Dance; Video recordings; Animation; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: France

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/06/arts/dance/tiktok-dancers-imitating-video-game-characters.html

Title: Silly Stepping Into the Uncanny Valley:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 8, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuestdocument ID: 2873868607

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silly-stepping-into-uncanny-valley/docview/2873868607/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Under Her Considerable Influence: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/under-her-considerable-influence/docview/2873868557/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: How Miuccia Prada -- and Miu Miu -- became the muse of the season. Plus a detour through Chanel and Louis Vuitton.
Want to know what you will wear next?
Quite possibly a rah-rah skirt so short it shows your rear end or (if you are of a mind-set that eschews rah-rah skirts) a pencil skirt or pair of trousers or even pair of men's swim trunks that sit so low on the hips they flirt with bumster-dom. They'll probably be cinched with a wide leather belt or at the very least expose the elastic logo waistband of your underwear.
With them, a schoolboy striped Oxford shirt, navy V-neck sweater and navy blazer. Or maybe you'll forget the pants and skirts entirely -- too much to think about! -- and just toss a jeweled flapper wrap dress or a gold brocade opera coat over your shirt. Then you might stuff an extra pair of shoes, the kind that gave you blisters so you had to put Band-Aids on your heels but you love them so you'll take them anyway, into your handbag before sprinting out the door.
Or that's what you may wear next if what appeared on the Miu Miu catwalk at the close of Paris Fashion Week is any indication.
But why, you say, scratching your head, would Miu Miu have anything to do with it?
Not just because the show was fantastic -- one that seemed to be channeling Simone de Beauvoir or Natalia Ginzburg en route to the flower market after a late night of pub quizzes and philosophical debate.
But because ever since Miuccia Prada enlisted Raf Simons as co-creative director at Prada in Milan, freeing herself up to pay more attention to what had always been seen as Prada's little sister line, the Miu Miu brand -- not to mention Mrs. Prada's whole aesthetic -- has quietly become one of the most influential in fashion.
If in doubt, simply consider the number of audience members who arrived at the show in hot pants and tights (not since the age of Mary Quant have so many upper thighs been so visible). Or consider how much Mrs. Prada's work has shaped what has appeared on other catwalks since this fashion month began.
Indeed, it would not be overstating things to say Mrs. Prada has been the muse of the season.
The Mrs. Prada Effect
It started during New York Fashion Week, when Joseph Altuzarra offered up what was essentially an ode to early Prada in cocooning uniform coats, sheer pencil skirts and frumpy knits -- a theme that was repeated three weeks later in Paris at Matthew M. Williams's show for Givenchy, which featured similar Prada-isms in pastel shades speckled among his lithe black dresses (elegant, but generic).
In Milan, short shorts -- the kind that looked an awful lot like the hot pants Mrs. Prada showed for Miu Miu last season, which were an evolution of the truncated skirts she showed the season before -- became the trend of the week at Gucci, Bally and Etro. Versace embraced the concept of the shorts set, which came in the wake of the Miu Miu set renaissance of early 2022.
Hot pants -- dotted with costume jewels even -- popped up again at Stella McCartney, paired with ruffled tuxedo shirts and cool suiting, amid the backdrop of the designer's sustainability market showcasing various material technologies, and a host of her own greatest hits. Even Victoria Beckham, who seems to be struggling to find a new fashion identity, threw some bodysuits, with undies peeking out around the edges, under cardigans into her mix of tailoring and transparency.
It's not that anyone is overtly referencing Mrs. Prada (or it's not like most of them are). But she has become so masterful at cozying up to the clichés of gender, burrowing down and recontextualizing them, so good at using clothes to wrestle with the desire to be pretty and frivolous and serious and stressed all at the same time that her work has started to shape the culture it reflects. In the real world of the street, and the digital world of influencers.
At which point it gets regurgitated back through the maw of other designers, amplifying the ideas. It's not trickle down or trickle up as much as trickle out.
A Detour to Vuitton and Chanel
The Miu Miu effect marks a pretty big shift in the biorhythms of fashion month. After all, years ago, when Mrs. Prada moved her Miu Miu show to Paris to create some breathing room between it and the Prada show in Milan, it was a sort of an addendum, or coda, to the week, after the mega brands of Chanel and Louis Vuitton had brought the season to an end. Lately, however, those shows seem increasingly niche; not smaller physically, but speaking mostly to an echo chamber of their own (paid) celebrities and acolytes.
Vuitton, for example, was held in the brand's new building on the Champs-Élysées, a former Art Deco palace hotel, now a construction site for what the brand would only describe as "a new project."
The soaring ground floor interior had been shrink-wrapped in orange plastic (100 percent recycled and 100 percent recyclable said the show notes) to resemble the interior of a hot-air balloon because, you know, travel (and the brand's birth as a trunk maker). And because the clothes from the designer Nicolas Ghesquière -- layers of striped and plaid mousseline belted at the hip, with leather jackets, candy-cane clown pants and elaborately beaded tweeds -- had their own floaty fussiness to match.
They were complicated-looking, no matter how light the construction, which paradoxically gave them a very French air. You don't want to wear them, but they are compelling all the same. Even if they also seem like a very acquired taste that might take too much effort to acquire, like sweetbreads.
At Chanel, meanwhile, Virginie Viard was riffing on the Villa de Noailles, the 1920s artistic salon in the South of France and the creative milieu Coco shared, with bouclés and seaside stripes, long-line bathing suits and flirty cover-ups, logos and flowers and pearls galore. The problem is, for every great piece -- a pleated black and white halter neck gown, for example, or a kind of ironically fun tweed caftan -- there's another that has all the subtlety of boardwalk souvenir shop Chanel without any of the irony.
"Whatever"
It's Mrs. Prada's self-awareness and ability to both love fashion and recognize the issues with it, to embrace the inherent tensions and related absurdity of even worrying about such tensions, that makes it possible for so many to recognize themselves (or their many selves) in her work.
"Fashion comes when you want a distraction, when you are not too serious," she said after the Miu Miu show. "But then you need to think about the rest, so you need clothes you can live with, and clothes that you can think with."
During the show, a piece of video art titled "Gravity & Grace" from the Qatari-American artist Sophia Al-Maria played on screens set up around the venue, featuring a stuntwoman, Ayesha Hussain, in those Prada hot pants, gas station jackets and knee-high boots, going through different exercises with a sword and a cross bow, and twirling around like a jewel-box ballerina. It didn't have much to do with what was on the runway, other than evincing, the show notes said, "a congruent intellectual viewpoint."
At the finale, after Cailee Spaeny -- the actor who plays Priscilla Presley in Sofia Coppola's coming biopic "Priscilla" -- had walked out in a plain black coat, the video flashed a close-up of a gum-chewing face and the word "whatever."
It was the perfect ending.
Photograph A window into Miu Miu, which has quietly become quite influential in fashion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1); Clockwise from top left: looks from Miu Miu, Chanel, Stella McCartney (center), Louis Vuitton and Givenchy along with another from Miu Miu. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIU MIU, CHANEL, STELLA McCARTNEY, VIANNEY LE CAER/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS (LOUIS VUITTON), GIVENCHY, JULIEN DE ROSA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (MIU MIU)) (ST3) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST3.

Subject: Luggage; Clothing; Logos

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos

People: McCartney, Stella

Company / organization: Name: Miu Miu; NAICS: 315210, 315990, 316210; Name: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; NAICS: 312130, 315210, 316990, 325620, 339910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/04/style/miu-miu-chanel-louis-vuitton-paris-fashion-week.html

Title: Under Her Considerable Influence:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 8, 2023

column: Fashion Review

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2873868557

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/under-her-considerable-influence/docview/2873868557/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Voices Raised In the Library: [Style Desk]

Author: Guerrero, Melissa

Publication info: Guerrero, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/voices-raised-library/docview/2872593762/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Senator Chuck Schumer, Mayor Eric Adams and other local dignitaries attended the library's gala on Monday, which honored Jay-Z and his mother, Gloria Carter.
On Monday night, at the main branch of the Brooklyn Public Library, adults in tieless suits and flowing dresses populated the Youth Wing, sitting near stacks of children's books, some on children's chairs, with drinks in hand for the library's 24th annual gala.
The benefit, which raised $ 1.5 million, honored Jay-Z and his mother, Gloria Carter, the co-founder and chief executive of the Shawn Carter Foundation. (She did not attend.)
Nearby were pieces from "The Book of Hov" exhibit -- like encased CDs, magazine covers, Grammy and Emmy Award statues, and a full-scale replica of a studio -- which features artifacts tracing the artist's decades-long career. The exhibit opened in July and was extended through Dec. 4, Jay-Z's birthday.
Above a scribbled chalkboard, a large rendering of a green dragon hovered over stacked glasses on a bar that served Ace of Spades champagne and D'Ussé cognac, the rapper's brands.
"You have experienced the multiple open bars inside of the public library. That's how you get literacy done," joked Baratunde Thurston, the writer and cultural critic, while hosting the event.
Did you happen to get one of the Jay-Z-themed library cards and if you did, which one?
Hundreds of guests spread onto the main floor for cocktails and a buffet of short ribs, roasted salmon and chicken with preserved lemon. The building's information area was transformed into a cafeteria-like seating area.
Xiomara Hall, a friend of Cassandra Metz, a library board member, flew in from Kansas City that morning after attending the last show on Beyoncé's Renaissance tour.
"This was my library growing up, and there was never a display or recognition of a Black artist that had an impact in this kind of a way, in this library, when I was growing up," Ms. Hall said.
"So it's powerful for me to come back to my childhood library to see someone like him who's also a Brooklyn native being honored like this."
Along with the exhibit, which came as New York City celebrated the 50th anniversary of hip-hop, the library has also introduced special edition "Book of Hov" library cards, with 13 cards designed with the rapper's solo album covers.
Since the exhibit started, more than 80,000 limited-edition cards have been issued and more than 20,000 new library accounts have been opened, according to library representatives.
What do you think this collaboration means for the library and for Jay-Z?
For the evening remarks, guests moved outside to a covered structure along the library's entrance as Questlove served as the D.J.
In the front row of nearly 500 white folding chairs, Desiree Perez, the chief executive of Roc Nation, sat across from Linda E. Johnson, the president and chief executive of the library, and her husband, Bruce Ratner, the real estate developer. Clara Wu Tsai, the philanthropist and co-owner of the Brooklyn Nets, and Antonio Delgado, the lieutenant governor of New York, were also seated there.
Waiting in an undisclosed location nearby, Jay-Z walked quietly from behind the stage into his seat.
The singer, Victory, performed a song against the sirens and car horns from the Grand Army Plaza roundabout.
Speeches from elected officials, and well-known Brooklynites, praising Jay-Z were peppered with references to his music.
"As Senate majority leader, I got 99 problems," said Senator Chuck Schumer, the majority leader, as the crowd cheered.
"By the way," Mr. Schumer said, "I live across the street and I wake up every morning reading your lyrics," referring to some of Jay-Z's lyrics plastered on the facade of the library's entrance, in celebration of the exhibit.
" ... but we all know that Jay-Z is a business, man," said Brooklyn Borough President Antonio Reynoso.
In a letter read by his sons, Jeremiah, 21, and Joshua, 19, Representative Hakeem Jeffries, Democrat of New York, who could not attend and sent his sons in his place, wrote that his children were inspired by "the life and times of Shawn Carter," a nod to the rapper's 1999 album.
Mayor Eric Adams spoke next, presenting the award for Ms. Carter to Jay-Z, who sipped from a glass of champagne during the ceremony. The Shawn Carter Foundation recently donated $ 1.5 million to the library, in partnership with Michael Rubin, chief executive of the sports merchandise company, Fanatics, and the Foundation to Combat Antisemitism founded by Robert Kraft.
Mr. Adams said Jay-Z, and the exhibit, has played an important role in bringing a new generation of young people into the library.
"Now, walking through those doors, you're going to have young men and women walk in here only because you said it was alright," Mr. Adams said.
Taking the stage, Jay-Z, dressed in a Gucci tuxedo, said his mother had given him a "very bad excuse," for why she did not attend.
"She'd want to say she would have loved to be here with you guys. And she is incredibly honored. And it is overwhelming that her son is so incredible," he continued, crediting his mother for telling him as a young child that he could be anything.
As he spoke, police officers in uniform held up phones to record the speech.
"I love you!" someone shouted from a crowd of about a dozen onlookers lining the police barricades along Flatbush Avenue.
"And we love you," he said, in response. "This is definitely Brooklyn."
Jay-Z reflected on the exhibit at the library, which was kept a secret from him.
"I thought maybe it was like a small room, and it was more than what I deserved," he said. "I walked in, and I saw this incredible display."
"And my grandma Hattie White got to see it," he continued. "She just turned 98 years old, and she's seen a lot of things."
"That experience was just overwhelming," he said.
As the speeches ended, Jay-Z slipped upstairs as guests strolled back to the main floor of the library for passed plates of doughnuts where Questlove continued to D.J. As a parting gift, guests were given a copy of "Decoded," Jay-Z's 2010 memoir.
"That was so much fun," one attendee said as she walked inside. "That was Monday night. What am I supposed to do on Tuesday?"
Photograph Jay-Z receiving an award from Mayor Eric Adams at the Brooklyn Public Library.; June Ambrose, a stylist.; Linda E. Johnson, library president.; Nina Collins, library board chair.; Xochitl Gonzalez, a writer.; Questlove, who performed as D.J.; Gayle King, center.; Senator Chuck Schumer.; Lacey Schwartz Delgado and Lt. Gov. Antonio Delgado. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Rap music; Young adults; Public libraries; Children & youth; Awards & honors; Books

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Schumer, Charles E; Jay-Z (rapper); Delgado, Antonio

Company / organization: Name: Shawn Carter Foundation; NAICS: 813211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/03/style/jay-z-brooklyn-public-library-gala.html

Title: Voices Raised In the Library:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 5, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2872593762

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/voices-raised-library/docview/2872593 762/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Collections Serve to Frame Two Departures: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/collections-serve-frame-two-departures/docview/2872593736/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sarah Burton says goodbye to Alexander McQueen with a triumphant collection; Gabriela Hearst departs Chloé.
At the end of the Alexander McQueen show, after Naomi Campbell had strutted by in a silver beaded dress with a heart-shape breastplate of a bodice and a skirt dripping in loops of fringe, and the audience had risen to its feet in a standing ovation, the designer, Sarah Burton, came out to take her bow. It would be, everyone knew, her last one for the brand.
She was leaving the house she had made her own after assuming the mantle of its founder and her mentor following his suicide in 2010. David Bowie's "Heroes" was playing over the speakers. It was a fitting song to go out on. Because for the past 13 years, Ms. Burton has been as close to a hero as fashion has had.
She ensured the McQueen name had a life, not just a legacy, that went on; took it out of tragedy and trauma and guided it ever so gently into the light. Took a brand built on clothes that thrummed with tension and drama and a knife edge of danger -- you never knew quite what you were going to get when you went to a McQueen show -- and gave it heart.
It's hard to remember now, in an era when celebrities like Cate Blanchett and Elle Fanning and Jon Batiste, all of whom were in the audience, vie to wear McQueen to red carpet events, but it was far from a foregone conclusion that the brand would survive its namesake. At the time, the industry was widely declaiming that no one -- no one!! -- could possibly follow in Lee Alexander McQueen's footsteps (or his armadillo-shod platform hoof steps, to be exact). That no one could possibly cut a suit with the outrageous combination of technical skill and untrammeled imagination that he brought to the job, and it was disrespectful for Kering (then Gucci Group), which announced in 2000 it had bought the brand, to even try.
That Ms. Burton, an unknown (albeit one who had worked side by side with Mr. McQueen for 12 years), did, was an act of courage and faith that first held together the company, and then proved it was possible for a designer to inherit an aesthetic and, rather than reject it or dutifully imitate it, understand it and make it her own. Not just in form and pattern, but in spirit.
Ms. Burton embraced the weaponized tailoring and drama of Mr. McQueen but gave the brand a grace and generosity that had not been present before. It was such a resonant change that only a year after Ms. Burton was named creative director, she made Kate Middleton's wedding dress, which in turn made McQueen a name that stood not just for fashion extremes, but for modern Britain.
Just why was visible in Ms. Burton's final show, which she dedicated to "Lee Alexander McQueen, whose wish was always to empower women, and to the passion, talent and loyalty of my team." It was not an elegy or a greatest hits tour, but a defiant, triumphant celebration of female corporeality and strength of all kinds.
She cut and sliced suit jackets to expose different parts of the anatomy, laced a molded black minidress in blood red up the spine and painted a splash of crimson thread across a coat. The Tudor rose of England bloomed on bias-cut slips, and O'Keeffe-ian flowers formed the petals of a dress. Aran knits contained whole gardens unto themselves and a frayed tulle top dripped silver bullion shreds over a pair of white wool bumsters.
It was one of the few shows of the week to include models of all sizes -- small, midsize, plus-size and even pregnant -- and a variety of ages on the catwalk. Ms. Burton has always seen women in full: as warriors, mothers, storytellers, myths. And dressed them for it.
The designer has not said what she is doing next -- or why she and Kering decided to part ways. Perhaps the show's backdrop, monumental textile works by the Polish artist Magdalena Abakanowicz, who heroized the domestic art of weaving and whom Ms. Burton described as "a transgressive and powerfully creative artist who refused to ever compromise her vision," was a clue. Whatever the reason, Ms. Burton has woven herself into the fabric of this time.
As it happened, Ms. Burton's was not the only goodbye show of the week. Gabriela Hearst was also saying farewell to Chloé after three years, though her impact on the brand was relatively minor, as was her final collection for the brand, an ode to flowers in swirls of ruffled white knits, blossoming sleeves and fishnet slips covered in leather and ceramic daisies.
They were functionally delicate, but overshadowed by the rousing appearance of musicians from the Mangueira samba school of Brazil, who appeared for the finale to play Ms. Hearst, prancing joyfully down the runway, and her models out. (The designer didn't seem to be that torn up about going.)
While Ms. Hearst's clothes were never particularly notable, in one respect she did make a significant difference to Chloé, , spurring its transformation to B Corp status, the better to be held officially accountable on environmental and social standards. During her tenure Chloé was the first major luxury brand so certified, no small thing given sustainability seems to have largely disappeared from the fashion conversation this season.
"There's no going back now!" Ms. Hearst chortled in a preview in which she noted that she had always considered herself only "one link in a chain" of Chloé's designers.
Still, the departure of both Ms. Hearst and Ms. Burton means two fewer female designers atop major houses -- and none at Kering, the second biggest fashion group in the industry -- at least until their replacements are named, and potentially thereafter.
That risks seeming an awful lot like going backward to me.
Photograph Looks from Alexander McQueen (top, above and above center) and Chloé (above far right). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IK ALDAMA; DAVE BENETT/GETTY IMAGES FOR ALEXANDER McQUEEN; MOHAMMED BADRA/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page D6.

Subject: Fashion designers

People: Hearst, Gabriela

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/01/style/sarah-burton-alexander-mcqueen-paris-fashion-week.html

Title: Collections Serve to Frame Two Departures:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 5, 2023

column: `Fashion Review

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2872593736

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/collections-serve-frame-two-departures/docview/2872593736/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fashion Royalty, Even Without the Crown: [Style Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fashion-royalty-even-without-crown/docview/2870653714/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There are some people in fashion with such distinctive personal style trademarks that you can recognize them from their silhouettes. Karl Lagerfeld was one (remember the Diet Coke bottles?). Anna Wintour is another. And then, with her sky-high heels, narrow pencil skirts, shaggy bob and permanent presence on the front row of fashion week for more than 30 years, there is Carine Roitfeld.
The former French Vogue editor and stylist was a longtime collaborator with the likes of Mr. Lagerfeld and Tom Ford, as well as a principal architect of the hedonistic aesthetic that defined late 1990s fashion. After leaving French Vogue in 2011, she founded her own biannual publication, CR Fashion Book, which celebrates its 10th anniversary this year. The latest cover, released earlier this week, stars Kim Kardashian with razor-thin brows, a dirty white top and a buzz-cut wig, and was shot by Nadia Lee Cohen.
Lately Ms. Roitfeld has also been busy building a lifestyle empire, branching out into everything from perfumes to housewares as well as a new coffee-table book, "Fantasies," published earlier this month by Rizzoli (with a cover also featuring Ms. Kardashian).
She now occasionally uses a cane, but after turning 69 earlier this month, Ms. Roitfeld also appears to show no signs of slowing down. At the end of Milan Fashion Week -- and ahead of a big birthday bash in Paris on Sept. 27 -- she sat down to discuss getting older, her hand in shaping the intersection of fashion and pop culture and why she has no regrets about going it alone.
This interview has been edited and condensed.
In Milan, there were two major debuts at the houses of Gucci and Tom Ford. Given your long involvement with both of those brands, what did you think of what you saw?
The Tom Ford show was emotional for me because there were a lot of familiar faces in that room, including Peter [Hawkings], the new creative director who was Tom's right hand man and whom I have known for a long time. It was sexy, with a lot of references to the creative force of what Tom did both at Gucci and for his own brand. With Sabato [De Sarno] at Gucci, he is also a lovely guy. He was so unlucky with the weather and the fact the show location had to change. It was meant to be held in the streets, not a big black box. But it felt like a palate cleanser, and a real fresh start. Now he'll need to build on it.
You've been coming to Milan for almost 30 years. How has the way sex is presented on the fashion week runways changed since then?
I think it is more sanitized. I do think the 1990s were the best time for music and for fashion. And I think that is because people felt they had more freedom. Now we live in an age of anxiety where people are worried about everything -- like if they might get photographed by a cellphone or how they look on social media. That shapes people's sexuality and how they present themselves. There might be a lot of short shorts, but they don't always feel that sexy, you know? There was an emotional charge to many shows back then.
But I still see good shows that touch on sex now. The oozing latex curtain wall on the Prada runway this week felt very sensual to me. That was smart.
How has fashion week changed?
Social media has changed everything. There was no Instagram. The front row is now as much for TikTokers as it is for the people who have worked in fashion for 20 or 30 years. When everything is geared to be consumed online, something gets lost in the offline experience. Everyone films at the end of a show. No one is clapping.
Things change, I know that. But there is less space for us and I think it is a bit sad. For example, I couldn't congratulate Sabato after his show -- there were so many people backstage, all not talking, just holding up their phones and blocking the way. I waited for 10 minutes. Then I just gave up.
You've turned 69. Not a conventional big birthday to celebrate.
It's a good number. And I plan to stay 69 forever now, that's my new permanent age. So why not celebrate my last birthday party. It's going to be at Raspoutin, which is a nightclub in Paris my father used to go and sort of feels like home. Plus I have a lot going on that I feel proud of, like 10 years of CR Fashion Book. There are a lot of memories and we created a lot of great moments and careers in fashion. We, not me. I do not think of myself as a me, me, me person. Fashion is a team business. So my colleagues deserve to have a party, too.
When you look back on the last 10 years, what makes you proud?
When I left French Vogue, it was like giving back a royal crown. It's a huge title, everyone loved you and wanted your approval. And then I left, and then there was no team, no secretary, no automatic audience. Certain photographers were not allowed to work with me anymore. But it was really good for me to break out on my own at that stage in life. It forced me to find new contacts, look for new talent and do something that was truly my own.
Kim Kardashian is your cover star for the latest CR Fashion Book.
Yes and she's the cover of my new book, too. We have shot her before for CR Fashion Book -- working with Karl Lagerfeld and Riccardo Tisci. This time round, as you've seen, we shot her in a very surprising way. We've done a second cover with Jennifer Aniston, too.
Tell me about your tattoos. Are they new?
Yes, I've had them for about three or four months. On one finger is an Orthodox classic cross as I was raised in the Russian Orthodox Church. Then on another it says Odesa in Russian letters, where my family is from, and another says Paris. And I have the initials of those I love, and a small red band of thorns. I waited a long time to get these done -- 69 years. I had a lot of time to think about what to get.
On the subject of new things, you've also just started a housewares line.
Well yes, it's candles and diffusers for now, it's not furniture -- yet. But I do think smell is very important, it's very sensual and one of your very first impressions of a space. They're black. They're very chic. They're very me.
Then there is a new fragrance.
Yes, it's on me. Can you smell it? Forgive Me is the name. There is a lot of patchouli and white flowers. Making fragrances is very addictive, and I'd already got 7 Lovers [a perfume collection named for cities that inspire her and imaginary lovers in each of them]. Last year was Carine. And now this. The face of it will be my daughter, because she's very beautiful. Maybe the next one will have my granddaughter in the campaign.
Is family important to you?
Very. We are a small family but a very close one. My son, Vladimir, is my C.E.O. I dream of creating a new dynasty, a family fashion business that keeps creating the Roitfeld world.
When will you retire?
I don't have the luxury to retire. Honestly, I have too much going on and I'm not ready to stop and I am surrounded by people who are 25, which keeps me young. I think if I stopped it would just be boring.
But I have been making some life changes. I do sports and I have good DNA, and I'm lucky my body hasn't changed that much. But my skirts are now knee length, no matter what the new trends are. In Paris, I moved from the Left to the Right Bank. Anyone in Paris will tell you that to cross the river is a huge thing to do. And I've had to have five operations on my back. I do get tired; I do get worried I'll fall. So I use a cane now if I need to.
And where did you buy your cane or who makes it for you?
Amazon. 15 euros. A bargain!
Photograph Clockwise from top left: Carine Roitfeld last month; Kim Kardashian on the latest cover of Ms. Roitfeld's CR Fashion Book; Ms. Roitfeld, right, in 1999; and with her son, Vladimir, at the Tom Ford show during New York Fashion Week in September 2022. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; NADIA LEE COHEN; FASHION BY CARINE ROITFELD & BEN PERREIRA; BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES; DIMITRIOS KAMBOURIS/GETTY IMAGES FOR NYFW: THE SHOWS) (ST10-ST11) This article appeared in print on page ST10, ST11.

Subject: Fashion; Birthdays; Social networks; Housewares

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

People: Kardashian, Kim; Ford, Tom; Lagerfeld, Karl

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120; Name: Karl Lagerfeld; NAICS: 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/27/style/carine-roitfeld-cr-fashion-book.html

Title: Fashion Royalty, Even Without the Crown:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 1, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2870653714

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fashion-royalty-even-without-crown/docview/2870653714/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Debut: 21 Questions for a Creative Director: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/debut-21-questions-creative-director/docview/2869428847/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ahead of his first show at Milan Fashion Week, Sabato De Sarno talks family, tattoos and what he sings in the shower.
Last January, two months after Alessandro Michele shocked the fashion world by announcing he was leaving Gucci, a brand he had transformed into a trendsetter with $ 10 billion in revenue in 2022, the company named his successor, and that too shocked the fashion world. Who was this man, Sabato De Sarno, who would be stepping into Mr. Michele's fur-lined, logo-ed Gucci slides?
Little is known beyond basic biographical facts: Mr. De Sarno started his career at Prada before moving to Dolce & Gabbana and then Valentino, where he spent almost 14 years, ultimately becoming the fashion director in charge of men's and women's ready-to-wear.
Which is why, when I had the chance to sit down with Mr. De Sarno before his first Gucci show, I seized the moment to play 21 questions. Here is what I learned, in edited form, below.
What is your first memory?
I was about 7, in the small village I come from in the countryside, close to Naples. I was on a Vespa with my grandfather, just riding around, talking. He died 10 years ago, and we were very close. I have his name. When the announcement came out about Gucci, it made me very emotional because my father said, "I know Sabato would be very proud to read his name in the magazines."
What is your favorite food?
Eggplant Parmesan from my mother. She is the best cook in the world. She uses it to convince me to visit her in Como, where they live now. She says, "If you come home, I can make it for you." And always, she wins. I'm a terrible cook.
What else are you bad at?
I really like to drive, but people say I am a terrible driver. In Rome, I get around on city bikes.
What's your favorite ice cream flavor?
Stracciatella.
What is the first thing you do in the morning?
I have a dachshund named Luce, and she loves to sleep close to my feet. When I wake up, she just comes up, and we spend two or three minutes cuddling.
Do you sing in the shower?
Yes, pop music. This morning I was singing a song by Romy from the xx.
How did you celebrate your last birthday?
I just had my 40th birthday. It was at a nightclub. I love dance clubs. It was at the end of Valentino, the beginning of Gucci, and I decided to get together my colleagues, my family and my friends.
Relationship status?
I got married five years ago. My husband is a lawyer in Brussels at the European Union. We see each other on weekends. It works very well because when we stay together, we really have quality time: just me and him and our dog. We don't fight very often because if we fight, we need to make a peace before leaving.
What piece of clothing have you had the longest?
A dark navy worker's jacket I bought on Portobello Road when I was 19. It was the first moment I bought something as a piece of my wardrobe. I still wear it.
Do you have a uniform?
White sneakers from the brand I am working on, or Converse. Black Levi's and a black T-shirt in the summer and black sweater in the winter.
Wait ... isn't that the uniform of Pierpaolo Piccioli, your former boss at Valentino?
It's the same as Pierpaolo, but I did it before him.
What do you buy?
I just bought a lot of pieces of Raf Simons because it's his last collection and I love his shapes and his way to do men's wear. [Mr. Simons closed his namesake label at the end of 2022.] But then I just wear it for one hour or two in the house and put it away because I don't like to go out like that. It's strange, I know.
I also have a large collection of coats. I have about 200. The first one I bought was a prototype when I worked at Miu Miu. It looks like a coat, except it has no pockets.
Do you have any tattoos?
Four. On my right forearm, an Ellsworth Kelly flower, because I love Ellsworth Kelly. On my left wrist, a star, which was the first one my mother allowed me to get, and the number 3, which I got with my two good friends and they also have. Then higher up on that arm, "Ancora," which I just got.
It means again. It's a word I use a lot. Not "again" as in the past, but "again" as when you enjoy something and you want more. It is the name of my first collection for Gucci.
Who was the first person you told when you got the Gucci job?
My husband. It was a very emotional moment. We were crying. He said, "I knew that it would happen." I could hardly believe it. After I put my signature on the contract, I slept with it because I dream a lot, and sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I say, "Was it real or not?" But with my hand on the paper, I'd know it was real.
What has surprised you about Gucci so far?
The hugeness of the brand. OK, from outside you see that, but you don't really feel it until you have meetings with every single team around the world. I'm very open, and I don't have any system about meeting with my team. I'm Sabato, you just come in the door.
But I remember the first week I was at Gucci was strange because no one talked to me. They all wanted to make appointments. I finally just told everyone: "OK, I know I'm the creative director, but I was in your role just two weeks before. You don't have to wait for a meeting."
What is going to surprise people about your Gucci?
I think the first thing is I'm more real. I don't want to build another world. I don't like sets. I like when I see people in the street with my clothes. In fact, the first show is going to be in the street. Also, we have a new brand color: red. I love it.
Do you have a personal motto?
Avanti. Go ahead.
What's your favorite form of exercise?
I'm not really a sporty person. When I decide to start a sport, I go and buy all the stuff to make a nice look. I decided to swim, for example, because I started to think my shoulders were becoming too hunchy, so I bought the swimsuit, the nose plugs, the ear plugs, the towels. But then after three lessons ... that's it.
What is your favorite book?
It depends on the moment. I like Elena Ferrante because of the way she describes my city, Naples. I am reading a book by James Baldwin, "Giovanni's Room." And I read the Obama biographies -- Michelle and Barack -- at the same time. He reminds me of my husband.
What did your husband give you for your birthday?
A Cartier Love bracelet. I don't really like to wear jewelry, but I like to wear this.
What is the best gift you have ever given?
I bought a house for my parents in Como, where they live now. Honestly, I'm so proud about that. They are all coming to the show. My family -- I have two younger brothers and two nephews -- represents to me the place where I feel safe and I can be myself.
Photograph Sabato De Sarno, who is stepping into his new role as the creative director of Gucci, succeeding Alessandro Michele. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERIA CHERCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Tattoos; Birthdays

People: Michele, Alessandro

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/style/sabato-de-sarno-gucci.html

Title: A Debut: 21 Questions for a Creative Director:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 28, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869428847

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/debut-21-questions-creative-director/docview/2869428847/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Great Gucci Reset Is Here: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/great-gucci-reset-is-here/docview/2869428834/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sabato De Sarno's first collection arrives. Think of it as a breeze, rather than a wind, of change.
Sabato De Sarno, the designer who was essentially unknown outside the industry until he was handed the keys to the $ 10 billion Gucci kingdom earlier this year and tasked with reinventing a brand that had already been reinvented twice before -- once by Tom Ford, as a uniform for sultry power players and then again by Alessandro Michele as a big-tent haven for fashion freakazoids high and low -- called his first collection "Ancora."
That translates literally as "again." But, he said in an interview a few weeks before the show, not again as in a retread, like "play it again, Sam" but as the "again, again, again" of desire: the feeling that, when you find something you love, you can never get enough. The feeing that, presumably, Gucci sparked in him, and that he (and his bosses) were hoping his Gucci would spark in consumers.
The word was plastered all over posters around Milan teasing the show, on the invitations in a new Gucci burgundy red known as Ancora red and on the sleeve of a vinyl record for the after-party. It was hard to escape.
And though it was a nice idea, it was the wrong name for the show. It would have made more sense if Mr. De Sarno had called his collection "Intermezzo." Because that's really what this collection was (or seemed to be): not a major statement, but rather a cleansing interregnum after the overblown muchness of Mr. Michele's tenure.
Only instead of lemon sorbet with a sprig of mint, Mr. De Sarno served up a stark dark wool overcoat and matching dark wool micro shorts with a white tank top, a GG belt and a dash of legs on the side, a slight splash of color coming in the classic Gucci red-and-green-webbing tacked inside the vent of the coat and an Ancora red Jackie bag.
Lengths were almost universally short: thigh high, elongated even more by the addition of chunky stacked loafers. The color palette was subdued: black, white, beige, blues, that red, with a touch of neon green. There was little print, save for the old GG monogram brought back on playsuits and a patent leather mini A-line tank dress.
The sole decoration was a bit of high-bling crosshatch crystal embroidery derived from an archive bag and used sparingly on bra tops, the spread collar of a ribbed navy knit and the rim of a white apron top worn with a pair of baggy jeans. Plus some sparkling fringe that flew out with every step on an Ancora red skirt (shown with another simple tank top) and a chartreuse coat. Lace-trimmed lingerie dresses were paired with plain old everyday jackets, like someone had woken up, grabbed the first cover-up that came to hand and gone out to walk the dachshund.
If it didn't exactly incite the pulse-thumping need of desire (it didn't), if it didn't immediately blare "New Mood for Fashion" (it didn't), it did set a tone. Think of it as a breeze, rather than a wind, of change. Gucci has been a lot of things, but it has never been minimal. Perhaps it's time.
The fact that the biggest star on a front row filled with stars was Julia Roberts, a woman of a certain age and her own retiring disposition -- as opposed to, say, Harry Styles or Jared Leto -- was not an insignificant detail (she was wearing a longer version of the micro shorts on the runway; presumably that will be the case in-store). Nor was the fact that the show was supposed to be held in the afternoon in the streets of the Brera district, but got rained out at the last minute and was forced indoors.
It's too bad, because that idea, like Ms. Roberts, is a clue to the new Gucci. For Mr. Ford and Mr. Michele, Gucci came alive after dark or through the glare (and small screen) of the smartphone. Mr. De Sarno wants to bring it into the light of day. The better to start, well -- again. He did that. What really matters is what he does next.
Photograph Looks from Gucci's spring 2024 collection, by Sabato De Sarno. The lengths were almost universally short. The palette is subdued. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA GUCCI) This article appeared in print on page D2.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/23/style/gucci-sabato-de-sarno-milan-fashion-week.html

Title: The Great Gucci Reset Is Here:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 28, 2023

column: Fashion Review

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Languageof publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869428834

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/great-gucci-reset-is-here/docview/2869428834/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Gentle Touch: [TStyle]

Author: Cotsifas, Anthony

Publication info: Cotsifas, Anthony. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gentle-touch/docview/2867679383/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Set design by Jocelyn Cabral. Digital tech: Lori Cannava. Photo assistant: Karl Leitz. Set designer's assistants: Maggie DiMarco, Vicky Novak
Photograph From top: Gucci bag, $ 4,890, gucci.com; Chloé bag, $ 6,450, chloe.com; Chanel bag, $ 5,100, (800) 550-0005; and Balenciaga shoes, $ 875, balenciaga.com.; Clockwise from top left: Loro Piana bag, $ 4,025, loropiana.com; Ferragamo shoes, $ 1,390, ferragamo.com; Celine by Hedi Slimane bag, $ 3,650, celine.com; and Sportmax shoes, price on request, sportmax.com.; From top: Bottega Veneta bag, price on request, bottegaveneta.com; Givenchy shoes, $ 950, givenchy.com; and Giorgio Armani bag, $ 1,795, armani.com.; From top: Louis Vuitton bag, $ 7,850, louisvuitton.com; Fendi bag, $ 4,900, fendi.com; and Stella McCartney shoes, $ 895, stellamccartney.com. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTHONY COTSIFAS; SET DESIGN BY JOCELYN CABRAL) This article appeared in print on page M2106, M2108, M2110, M2112.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/20/t-magazine/textured-bags-shoes.html

Title: A Gentle Touch:   [TStyle ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: M2.106

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 24, 2023

column: Design Objects

Section: M2

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2867679383

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gentle-touch/docview/2867679383/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Tom Ford, Time Travel Is a Trap: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tom-ford-time-travel-is-trap/docview/2867679374/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tom Ford's new designer falls in, but Prada offers a fabulous escape hatch.
Ever dreamed of a do-over? Wished you could climb into a special mystery machine like Dr. Who and end up sometime in the late 20th century, before smartphones and social media, before alternative facts and the return of autocracy, when climate change was still a question mark, air conditioning could blast with impunity and hedonism was a subversively appealing marketing concept?
That kind of magical thinking is exactly how it felt on Thursday, walking through a wall-to-wall-carpet-lined tunnel into the Tom Ford show: the first major new designer debut of the Milan fashion season. It was the first live show since Mr. Ford sold his namesake brand to Estée Lauder, who in turn handed over the reins of the ready-to-wear to the Zegna Group; the first since Mr. Ford stepped down, and his longtime No. 2, Peter Hawkings, was appointed creative director in his place.
One minute you were outside in the Milanese rain, a crowd of looky-loos shrieking happily at Elizabeth Banks and Rebecca Dayan. The next minute, you were swirling down the decade drain into 1995 or '96 or '97, the era when Mr. Ford was busy reinventing Gucci and bringing excitement back to Milan with show sites covered in plush carpet to recreate a haute nightclub circa 1979.
It has been almost 20 years, cultural schisms and a whole other company since Mr. Ford left Gucci, and yet Mr. Hawkings, who could have taken his mentor's brand almost anywhere (literally and aesthetically), chose to bring everyone right back to the beginning.
And not just with the carpet and the décor, but with the clothes: an effective tour through Mr. Ford's greatest Gucci hits (with a touch of his Yves Saint Laurent) in 50-plus moments of déjà vu.
Remember the slinky jersey dresses cinched at the hip with a curvy, Elsa Peretti-inspired buckle from Gucci fall '96? They were here, in black with a bronze-buckle belt, the backs cut to the lowest curve of the spine. Remember the rock-star velvet pantsuits from the same collection? Ditto, in teal and raspberry (one with shorts, instead of pants). Remember the slick pencil skirts that Mr. Ford's Gucci stylist, Carine Roitfeld (sitting front row at Mr. Hawkings's show), once made her signature, along with slinky silk charmeuse silk shirts unbuttoned to the navel? Those too, though this time the skirts, like the slick suits for both men and women, were in faux patent leather croc rather than the real thing.
Every look came with a pair of shades and a stiletto sandal (or, for the men, a sharp leather boot). Most also included some gold chains and a clutch. The only thing lacking, really, was the follow spot. Oh, and the frisson of discovering the gleeful sex-power-strut thing.
After all, it's not quite the same any more. The world isn't; gender isn't; the relationship of sex and power isn't. So why double down on the past?
The Dress-Up Game
Maybe this was a transition collection; an attempt by a protégé to pay homage to the man who trained him by proving that he understood the legacy, and to show his new owners that he was a steady pair of hands. Maybe, in a season in which a new designer is about to debut at Gucci itself and rumors have been floating around about a return to that brand's classics, it was an effort to reclaim those looks; to out-Tom Ford the house that Mr. Ford helped build. Maybe, after 25 years of working with Mr. Ford, this is simply what Mr. Hawkings knows.
Or maybe Mr. Hawkings believes (correctly) that we live in a time of nostalgia for the past, especially that turn-of-the-millennium past, where generations that didn't experience it the first time around try to recreate it as closely possible the only way they really know how: pants!
After decades in men's wear, Mr. Hawkings is a dab hand at those (and he did succeed in uniting the Tom Ford men's wear and women's wear. But in doing that, he forgot one thing: When Mr. Ford first blew fashion open, he wasn't going through the motions of existing norms. He was unzipping them, with a dash of irony and a self-aware wink.
If Mr. Hawkings learned one thing from his mentor, it should have been that: Real seduction comes garbed in the confidence of an original point of view. After all, you can't repeat the past. You can just play dress-up in it.
Prada Plays the Slime Card, Beautifully
It's not that a designer needs to reject history (theirs, ours, a brand's) entirely -- if you don't learn from it, you are doomed to repeat it and yadda, yadda, yadda. But it needs to be remixed rather than reproduced, so that suddenly the familiar looks entirely different. That's how progress happens.
That's what Miuccia Prada and Raf Simons do so brilliantly at Prada, and what they did again this season.
Starting with slime, which oozed down from the ceiling in long, transparent sheets, bisecting the runway and pooling in sea-foam clumps on the floor, like some sort of delicate alien plasma (or sneaky metaphor).
"We had the '20s, '30s, sort of sliding together, and then the '90s, and some '80s," Mr. Simons said backstage after the show, as he and Mrs. Prada were swarmed by the usual flock of well-wishers and journalists pecking at their crumbs of wisdom.
He was talking about the echoes of decades past in iridescent organza shift dresses bathed in dawn shades, wisps of material floating behind them like mist. Talking about the strong-shoulder suit jackets that narrowed to a point at the waist over tiny tailored shorts. With, perhaps, a shard of a chiffon scarf thrown over the shoulders for good measure -- and a gold or silver carwash skirt, or at least notional skirt, belted atop, like a can-can dancer on her way to a board meeting.
He was talking about the Milky Way swirls of rhinestones and comet trails of silver grommets that decorated leather and velvet frocks, under distressed oversize barn coats (they are turning into something of a trend this season, as seen in '80s-style dyed denim at Max Mara and at Etro). Not to mention the freaky little baldheaded icon that doubled as a handbag clasp and turned out to be a recreation of a bag clasp from around 1913, when Mrs. Prada's grandfather founded the brand.
It was, Mrs. Prada said, a "mythological head," but set against the ominous strains of the "Vertigo" soundtrack, it bore an unsettling resemblance to Alfred Hitchcock, peering out from an alternate accessories dimension.
The effect was to de- and re- contextualize the clichés of femininity and masculinity; to challenge any entrenched sense of surety about what is fancy, what is professional, what is kitschy, what is tough, what is fragile. And in doing so, open up the sense of what is possible.
"It's about shifting things," Mr. Simons said backstage. Expectations, preconceptions, the ground under everyone's feet.
Photograph Above, looks from Tom Ford. Below, looks from Prada. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT AND ABOVE, SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; RIGHT, GIOVANNI GIANNONI/WWD, VIA GETTY IMAGES; LEFT, MONIC/PRADA; ABOVE, MONIC; BELOW, PRADA) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

People: Ford, Tom

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/style/tom-ford-prada-milan-fashion-week.html

Title: For Tom Ford, Time Travel Is a Trap:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 24, 2023

column: Fashion Review

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2867679374

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tom-ford-time-travel-is-trap/docview/2867679374/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Man Who Transformed Bottega Veneta: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-who-transformed-bottega-veneta/docview/2866624885/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For years, Matthieu Blazy was a fashion ghost: a specter whispered about but rarely seen. "The most famous designer you've never heard of," New York magazine crowed in 2014.
At only 30, he was said to be the man behind the renaissance of Margiela couture, after the brand's founding designer left the house. A few years later, he was rumored to be the secret sauce in Phoebe Philo's Céline collections. Then he was spotted at Calvin Klein, helping reinvent it under Raf Simons. His name kept coming up in reference to top designer jobs, but he never took a bow at the end of the runway. He was rarely photographed. He didn't hang out with celebrities.
"You can't keep such a talent under wraps," Suzy Menkes wrote in British Vogue. Except he did.
Until now.
In late 2021 Mr. Blazy, now 39, became the creative director of Bottega Veneta, after its previous designer, Daniel Lee, who had reinvented the brand in only three years, departed under a cloud of rumors about misbehavior and high employee turnover. Mr. Blazy, who had been Mr. Lee's No. 2, inherited not just his headline gig, but a house shrouded in innuendo and in need of yet another sprinkling of fairy dust. What did he do?
He changed leather into denim, flannel, ribbed cotton and knit and fooled everyone. He pulled the rug out from under assumptions in the most gracious way and made the everyday into precious objects that only the wearer really understood. He created a world -- one where nothing is quite as it seems -- and populated it with an entire assortment of passers-by. He played sleight of hand with the hierarchy of taste.
And he did it so effectively that this month Bergdorf Goodman in New York, which always devotes its fashion week windows to what Linda Fargo, the senior vice president for fashion and store presentation, described as "the best fashion of the season," filled three of its windows with Bottega -- and only Bottega. Two years into the job, Mr. Blazy hasn't just redefined a brand, he has defined a direction.
Lately there has been a growing rift in the fashion world between designers who make content and designers who make clothes. The content crew considers fashion as a subset of entertainment; the clothes crew sees fashion as a service.
The appointment of Pharrell Williams as creative director of Louis Vuitton men's wear was in many ways the apotheosis of the content phenomenon, in which what matters is the spectacle and how it resonates through the world. The garments serve as souvenirs that allow you to buy into the experience and advertise your belonging.
Mr. Blazy has become the epitome of an alternative approach: a designer who puts himself second to the products, the people who make them and the people who buy them. "He doesn't see himself in the driver's seat of the company," said François-Henri Pinault, the chief executive of Kering, the group that owns Bottega Veneta. "He sees himself in the middle of the car."
Which is not to say he doesn't know exactly where everyone is going.
House Building
"I said I wanted to go against the stream of the monovision," Mr. Blazy said, talking about his initial pitch to Mr. Pinault. He was in his office in the Bottega Veneta headquarters in Milan, wearing a white Patagonia T-shirt and faded jeans.
He told Mr. Pinault he thought Bottega should focus on craft, rather than design; that it should be "a house, not a brand." That may sound like semantics but is the difference between a garment that advertises its point of origin and a garment that slips seamlessly into a wardrobe. And it was very different from the approach of Mr. Lee, who had made Bottega so associated with a single color -- a bright, herbalicious green -- that you could identify a piece from blocks away. It also explains a lot about how Mr. Blazy approaches not his job, but the world.
When he moved into his office, which was a white box, he had the walls repaneled in wood tinted a rich brown so they looked like a "chalet in Chamonix," and the room felt more domestic. Now it is anchored at one end by a seating area with an Isa Genzken Nefertiti head on a pedestal and, at the other, by a long table for meetings. The table has a bowl of Ricola lemon mint lozenges, but no computer.
"I did not open a computer for the last six months," Mr. Blazy said. "I have two, but I don't use them so much. I sketch a lot and talk a lot and look at books, and I have a phone." On the floor, below enormous windows, were 16 different piles of paper, each one corresponding to a different collection or project: perfume, new store concepts, the fanzines he creates with people he admires (most recently the British designer Hussein Chalayan, which involved Mr. Chalayan playing with pen and ink, watercolor and glitter to draw pieces from Mr. Blazy's last show).
On the walls were a series of artworks. Mr. Blazy collects first drafts. It started, he said, because that's all he could afford, and he liked the idea that they were "the first expression of something." Then, he said, he couldn't stop.
"It's not that I need to have more more more," he said. "But two or three times a year I try to find something that makes me happy to live with. I would rather have my money on the wall than in the bank."
When he likes something -- Marlboro Lights (he smokes a pack a day); stracciatella (the ice cream with tiny shavings of chocolate that he loves so much he had a special rug designed in its image for his last show; it is now in his office); the Gaetano Pesce chairs he commissioned for the show before that -- he whispers, "It's wonderful," and his eyes light up like a 10-year-old seeing snow for the very first time.
"He can get inspired by anything," said Pierre Debusschere, the image and music director for Bottega, who is a close friend. It is not a coincidence that one of Mr. Blazy's favorite sites in Milan is the Church of Santa Maria presso San Satiro, which features a "false apse" that from the front appears to recede into the distance but up close turns out to be a flat wall painted in trompe l'oeil.
The way Raf Simons, the co-creative director of Prada, who has been Mr. Blazy's boss twice, and is one of his closest friends, puts it is: "Matt is very free in his head. He has no fear of showing anything he believes in creatively. He always had so many ideas: Add latex kitchen gloves! What about a marching band jacket? Some made completely no sense, and some were so genius I would say, 'Of course, we are going to do that."'
Of Course, We Are Going to Do That
"In the past I've been proposed a few beautiful houses," Mr. Blazy said, talking about job offers that came his way before Bottega Veneta. He wouldn't name names, saying only that "one was very beautiful, about craft, one was very commercial but still about fashion, and one was a smaller house that I thought could be reactivated without being passé. But I never felt it was the right time. I saw a lot of designers taking stuff quickly, and for me it was important to build myself first. I wanted to know my job. Know myself."
Mr. Blazy grew up in Paris. His father is an expert in pre-Columbian art, and his mother a historian and researcher; he has an older brother who is an airplane pilot and a twin sister who works in Singapore. He was a rambunctious kid -- so much so that when he was 13, his parents sent him to a Marist school in the French countryside, and when that didn't take, to Pangbourne College, a military boarding school in England for a year. (He said he liked it.)
He thought about going into archaeology but ended up at La Cambre, the fashion school in Brussels, because his mother thought it would be good for him to have a skill; Julien Dossena, the creative director of Rabanne, was in his class; Anthony Vaccarello, the creative director of Saint Laurent, was a year above. His graduate collection was about Claudie Haigneré, the first Frenchwoman in space, who became the minister of science, and involved "big fur coats covered in silver fabric," Mr. Blazy said. "I had a lot of fun."
Mr. Simons liked the collection so much he offered Mr. Blazy a job at his namesake label as a men's designer. Another designer named Pieter Mulier was already working there, and he and Mr. Blazy soon became a couple.
"We did everything together," Mr. Simons said. "Go to fabric fairs in Paris, go to the movies, go on vacation."
Four years later, however, and still in his 20s, Mr. Blazy jumped to the Margiela Artisanal collection, that brand's equivalent of couture. That's where he began to experiment with the idea of transformation; using one kind of material (plastic hair combs) to represent another (fringe).
"I could really use my passion digging, being curious," he said. But, he said, he was worried he would be pigeonholed as a conceptualist, so he ended up hopscotching to Céline, when Phoebe Philo was creative director, to work on the more commercial precollections and, from there, to Calvin Klein, where he teamed up with Mr. Simons and Mr. Mulier once again.
It was, Mr. Blazy said, like a "high school reunion. It was very romantic. We're going to meet new people, we're going to live in New York."
He and Mr. Mulier rented a weekend place in Connecticut and got a rescue puppy called John John.
But then the Trump election happened, and the Calvin collections became less about the American dream than the American nightmare, somewhat to the dismay of PVH, the conglomerate that owned Calvin Klein. Mr. Simons and his inner circle were fired abruptly after two years.
"It was hell," Mr. Blazy said. "Like when you have your boxes on the street. It's something you see in movies, and then you are the main character."He thought about leaving fashion. Instead he ended up going to Los Angeles to help the artist Sterling Ruby with a collection he showed during the Pitti Uomo trade fair, in Florence.
That's when Daniel Lee, who had been the design director at Céline when Mr. Blazy was there and had just been tasked with updating Bottega Veneta, came calling. And though Mr. Blazy had reportedly gotten fed up with Mr. Lee's erratic leadership and resigned following a show in Detroit (he declined to discuss the situation), when Leo Rongone, the chief executive, was looking for Mr. Lee's replacement, "It was clear we had the right person already here."
The Anti-Pharrell
Mr. Blazy approached Bottega Veneta with two goals: First, to challenge himself to make something that is wearable. "Because we are expensive, it should be an investment," he said. And second, to interact with the world we live in. "Timeless is a word I just cannot hear anymore," he said. "It's more about a responsibility we have as designer to offer something that lasts." But also is not boring.
The first thing he did was reduce the size of the design teams so that everyone could sit around the same table. Then he involved the craftspeople (the leather workers and fabric developers) in every conversation.
"He knows everyone's name," Mr. Rongone said. "He listens to everyone." He brought a "new mood" to the studio, Mr. Pinault said. That's how those leather jeans -- "the first thing I asked for on the first day in the first meeting," he said -- came about.
The first response was "not possible," Mr. Blazy said. Then the teams started going through test after test -- about 30 to 40 of them, he said -- until one day his staff brought him a sample, "and I thought it was cotton," he said. "I'll always remember that day." Those "denim" jeans, which cost $ 6,900, sold out in two weeks, Mr. Blazy said.
Mr. Blazy believes in products that serve a function, like the Andiamo bag, a practical intrecciato style that Mr. Rongone said has become Bottega's best-selling item, and products that are unique, like a "sardine bag" from the last collection that comes with a Murano glass handle shaped like a Brancusi fish. No two handles are exactly alike (though there is a more accessible brass version). Twenty-five such bags were produced, costing $ 11,000 each, of which Bergdorf got three -- "and they sold immediately," Ms. Fargo said. At this stage, said Mr. Pinault, Bottega is close to becoming the third largest brand in the group, just after Gucci and Saint Laurent, and vying with Balenciaga.
"Even their most commercial pieces are special," Ms. Fargo said. "We're all in on it."
Mr. Blazy recently got his own apartment in Milan, after surfing a series of Airbnbs. (Mr. Mulier, now the creative director of Alaïa, and Mr. Blazy split up earlier this year; they are friends and share custody of the dog, though the breakup is still too hard for him to talk about.) The apartment, at the top of a 1960s Modernist building, looks a bit like a houseboat inspired by Frank Lloyd Wright: dark wood, slanted ceilings, with a step up on one side to a tiny balcony that is covered in greenery.
"I walked in and thought, 'This looks familiar,"' Mr. Blazy said. It turned out he was renting the same apartment Mr. Simons had rented for a time during a stint as creative director of Jil Sander from 2005 to 2012.
He shares the flat during the week with Mr. Debusschere. They have music planning meetings in the kitchen late at night over drinks, and more corporate meetings in the morning, looking over the roofs of Milan and drinking coffee. Mr. Blazy often brings art from his house to his office, and vice versa. He shot the most recent Bottega ad campaign in the courtyard of the apartment, featuring Mariacarla Boscono and his very stoic looking doorman.
Lately he has been thinking a lot about nature. "I'm interested in fish," he said to his team. "Can we look at birds? I saw this woman in the street. She was walking with double shorts. I think it's interesting. Can we try? Maybe it's too perfect. Can we try to make it less perfect?" And so on.
When they are in the studio, he said, he asks his team, "Would you wear this?" Sometimes they say no. Then, he asks them, "Why did you design it?"
Last season he began styling his shows himself, which he will do again this season. "I would rather make my own mistakes," he said.
He is glad he took his time in stepping forward. "Because now, even if I doubt, I know a question mark can become not just 'I don't know,"' he said. "It can become an adventure."
Photograph To Matthieu Blazy, the creative director of Bottega Veneta, "two voices are better than one." Four are even better. Below are some looks from Bottega Veneta's 2023 collections in Milan. Bottom, from left, are some celebrities in Bottega Veneta: Uma Thurman, Yara Shahidi and Michelle Yeoh. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARMINE ROMANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; FILIPPO FIOR; MATTEO CORNER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; DAVID LIVINGSTON/ GETTY IMAGES; AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES; JON KOPALOFF/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Clothing; Designers

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Bottega Veneta; NAICS: 449129, 458320, 459420

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/20/style/matthieu-blazy-bottega-veneta.html

Title: The Man Who Transformed Bottega Veneta:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 21, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866624885

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-who-transformed-bottega-veneta/docview/2866624885/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Magician of Milan

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/magician-milan/docview/2866620749/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For years, Matthieu Blazy was a fashion ghost: a specter whispered about but rarely seen. “The most famous designer you’ve never heard of,” New York magazine crowed in 2014.
At only 30, he was said to be the man behind the renaissance of Margiela couture, after the brand’s founding designer left the house. A few years later, he was rumored to be the secret sauce in Phoebe Philo’s Céline collections. Then he was spotted at Calvin Klein, helping reinvent it under Raf Simons. His name kept coming up in reference to top designer jobs, but he never took a bow at the end of the runway. He was rarely photographed. He didn’t hang out with celebrities.
“You can’t keep such a talent under wraps,” Suzy Menkes wrote in British Vogue. Except he did.
Until now.
In late 2021 Blazy, now 39, became the creative director of Bottega Veneta, after its previous designer, Daniel Lee, who had reinvented the brand in only three years, departed under a cloud of rumors about misbehavior and high employee turnover. Blazy, who had been Lee’s No. 2, inherited not just his headline gig, but a house shrouded in innuendo and in need of yet another sprinkling of fairy dust. What did he do?
He changed leather into denim, flannel, ribbed cotton and knit and fooled everyone. He pulled the rug out from under assumptions in the most gracious way and made the everyday into precious objects that only the wearer really understood. He created a world — one where nothing is quite as it seems — and populated it with an entire assortment of passersby. He played sleight of hand with the hierarchy of taste.
And he did it so effectively that this month Bergdorf Goodman in New York, which always devotes its fashion week windows to what Linda Fargo, the senior vice president for fashion and store presentation, described as “the best fashion of the season,” filled three of its windows with Bottega — and only Bottega. Two years into the job, Blazy hasn’t just redefined a brand, he has defined a direction.
Lately there has been a growing rift in the fashion world between designers who make content and designers who make clothes. The content crew considers fashion as a subset of entertainment; the clothes crew sees fashion as a service.
The appointment of Pharrell Williams as creative director of Louis Vuitton menswear was in many ways the apotheosis of the content phenomenon, in which what matters is the spectacle and how it resonates through the world. The garments serve as souvenirs that allow you to buy into the experience and advertise your belonging.
Blazy has become the epitome of an alternative approach: a designer who puts himself second to the products, the people who make them and the people who buy them. “He doesn’t see himself in the driver’s seat of the company,” said François-Henri Pinault, the CEO of Kering, the group that owns Bottega Veneta. “He sees himself in the middle of the car.”
Which is not to say he doesn’t know exactly where everyone is going.
House Building
“I said I wanted to go against the stream of the monovision,” Blazy said, talking about his initial pitch to Pinault. He was in his office in the Bottega Veneta headquarters in Milan, wearing a white Patagonia T-shirt and faded jeans.
He told Pinault he thought Bottega should focus on craft, rather than design; that it should be “a house, not a brand.” That may sound like semantics but is the difference between a garment that advertises its point of origin and a garment that slips seamlessly into a wardrobe. And it was very different from the approach of Lee, who had made Bottega so associated with a single color — a bright, herbalicious green — that you could identify a piece from blocks away. It also explains a lot about how Blazy approaches not his job, but the world.
When he moved into his office, which was a white box, he had the walls repaneled in wood tinted a rich brown so they looked like a “chalet in Chamonix,” and the room felt more domestic. Now it is anchored at one end by a seating area with an Isa Genzken Nefertiti head on a pedestal and, at the other, by a long table for meetings. The table has a bowl of Ricola lemon mint lozenges, but no computer.
“I did not open a computer for the last six months,” Blazy said. “I have two, but I don’t use them so much. I sketch a lot and talk a lot and look at books, and I have a phone.” On the floor, below enormous windows, were 16 different piles of paper, each one corresponding to a different collection or project: perfume, new store concepts, the fanzines he creates with people he admires (most recently British designer Hussein Chalayan, which involved Chalayan playing with pen and ink, watercolor and glitter to draw pieces from Blazy’s last show).
On the walls were a series of artworks. Blazy collects first drafts. It started, he said, because that’s all he could afford, and he liked the idea that they were “the first expression of something.” Then, he said, he couldn’t stop.
“It’s not that I need to have more more more,” he said. “But two or three times a year I try to find something that makes me happy to live with. I would rather have my money on the wall than in the bank.”
When he likes something — Marlboro Lights (he smokes a pack a day); stracciatella (the ice cream with tiny shavings of chocolate that he loves so much he had a special rug designed in its image for his last show; it is now in his office); the Gaetano Pesce chairs he commissioned for the show before that — he whispers, “It’s wonderful,” and his eyes light up like a 10-year-old seeing snow for the very first time.
“He can get inspired by anything,” said Pierre Debusschere, the image and music director for Bottega, who is a close friend. It is not a coincidence that one of Blazy’s favorite sites in Milan is the Church of Santa Maria presso San Satiro, which features a “false apse” that from the front appears to recede into the distance but up close turns out to be a flat wall painted in trompe l’oeil.
The way Simons, the co-creative director of Prada, who has been Blazy’s boss twice, and is one of his closest friends, puts it is: “Matt is very free in his head. He has no fear of showing anything he believes in creatively. He always had so many ideas: Add latex kitchen gloves! What about a marching band jacket? Some made completely no sense, and some were so genius I would say, ‘Of course, we are going to do that.’”
Of Course, We Are Going to Do That
“In the past I’ve been proposed a few beautiful houses,” Blazy said, talking about job offers that came his way before Bottega Veneta. He wouldn’t name names, saying only that “one was very beautiful, about craft, one was very commercial but still about fashion, and one was a smaller house that I thought could be reactivated without being passé. But I never felt it was the right time. I saw a lot of designers taking stuff quickly, and for me it was important to build myself first. I wanted to know my job. Know myself.”
Blazy grew up in Paris. His father is an expert in pre-Columbian art, and his mother a historian and researcher; he has an older brother who is an airplane pilot and a twin sister who works in Singapore. He was a rambunctious kid — so much so that when he was 13, his parents sent him to a Marist school in the French countryside, and when that didn’t take, to Pangbourne College, a military boarding school in England for a year. (He said he liked it.)
He thought about going into archaeology but ended up at La Cambre, the fashion school in Brussels, because his mother thought it would be good for him to have a skill; Julien Dossena, the creative director of Rabanne, was in his class; Anthony Vaccarello, the creative director of Saint Laurent, was a year above. His graduate collection was about Claudie Haigneré, the first Frenchwoman in space, who became the minister of science, and involved “big fur coats covered in silver fabric,” Blazy said. “I had a lot of fun.”
Simons liked the collection so much he offered Blazy a job at his namesake label as a men’s designer. Another designer named Pieter Mulier was already working there, and he and Blazy soon became a couple.
“We did everything together,” Simons said. “Go to fabric fairs in Paris, go to the movies, go on vacation.”
Four years later, however, and still in his 20s, Blazy jumped to the Margiela Artisanal collection, that brand’s equivalent of couture. That’s where he began to experiment with the idea of transformation; using one kind of material (plastic hair combs) to represent another (fringe).
“I could really use my passion digging, being curious,” he said. But, he said, he was worried he would be pigeonholed as a conceptualist, so he ended up hopscotching to Céline, when Phoebe Philo was creative director, to work on the more commercial precollections and, from there, to Calvin Klein, where he teamed up with Simons and Mulier once again.
It was, Blazy said, like a “high school reunion. It was very romantic. We’re going to meet new people, we’re going to live in New York.”
He and Mulier rented a weekend place in Connecticut and got a rescue puppy called John John.
But then the Trump election happened, and the Calvin collections became less about the American dream than the American nightmare, somewhat to the dismay of PVH, the conglomerate that owned Calvin Klein. Simons and his inner circle were fired abruptly after two years.
“It was hell,” Blazy said. “Like when you have your boxes on the street. It’s something you see in movies, and then you are the main character.” He thought about leaving fashion. Instead he ended up going to Los Angeles to help artist Sterling Ruby with a collection he showed during the Pitti Uomo trade fair, in Florence, Italy.
That’s when Lee, who had been the design director at Céline when Blazy was there and had just been tasked with updating Bottega Veneta, came calling. And though Blazy had reportedly gotten fed up with Lee’s erratic leadership and resigned following a show in Detroit (he declined to discuss the situation), when Leo Rongone, the CEO, was looking for Lee’s replacement, “it was clear we had the right person already here.”
The Anti-Pharrell
Blazy approached Bottega Veneta with two goals: First, to challenge himself to make something that is wearable. “Because we are expensive, it should be an investment,” he said. And second, to interact with the world we live in. “Timeless is a word I just cannot hear anymore,” he said. “It’s more about a responsibility we have as designer to offer something that lasts.” But also is not boring.
The first thing he did was reduce the size of the design teams so that everyone could sit around the same table. Then he involved the craftspeople (the leather workers and fabric developers) in every conversation.
“He knows everyone’s name,” Rongone said. “He listens to everyone.” He brought a “new mood” to the studio, Pinault said. That’s how those leather jeans — “the first thing I asked for on the first day in the first meeting,” he said — came about.
The first response was “not possible,” Blazy said. Then the teams started going through test after test — about 30 to 40 of them, he said — until one day his staff brought him a sample, “and I thought it was cotton,” he said. “I’ll always remember that day.” Those “denim” jeans, which cost $6,900, sold out in two weeks, Blazy said.
Blazy believes in products that serve a function, like the Andiamo bag, a practical intrecciato style that Rongone said has become Bottega’s bestselling item, and products that are unique, like a “sardine bag” from the last collection that comes with a Murano glass handle shaped like a Brancusi fish. No two handles are exactly alike (though there is a more accessible brass version). Twenty-five such bags were produced, costing $11,000 each, of which Bergdorf got three — “and they sold immediately,” Fargo said. At this stage, said Pinault, Bottega is close to becoming the third largest brand in the group, just after Gucci and Saint Laurent, and vying with Balenciaga.
“Even their most commercial pieces are special,” Fargo said. “We’re all in on it.”
Blazy recently got his own apartment in Milan, after surfing a series of Airbnbs. (Mulier, now the creative director of Alaïa, and Blazy split up earlier this year; they are friends and share custody of the dog, though the breakup is still too hard for him to talk about.) The apartment, at the top of a 1960s Modernist building, looks a bit like a houseboat inspired by Frank Lloyd Wright: dark wood, slanted ceilings, with a step up on one side to a tiny balcony that is covered in greenery.
“I walked in and thought, ‘This looks familiar,’” Blazy said. It turned out he was renting the same apartment Simons had rented for a time during a stint as creative director of Jil Sander from 2005 to 2012.
He shares the flat during the week with Debusschere. They have music planning meetings in the kitchen late at night over drinks, and more corporate meetings in the morning, looking over the roofs of Milan and drinking coffee. Blazy often brings art from his house to his office, and vice versa. He shot the most recent Bottega ad campaign in the courtyard of the apartment, featuring Mariacarla Boscono and his very stoic looking door attendant.
Lately he has been thinking a lot about nature. “I’m interested in fish,” he said to his team. “Can we look at birds? I saw this woman in the street. She was walking with double shorts. I think it’s interesting. Can we try? Maybe it’s too perfect. Can we try to make it less perfect?” And so on.
When they are in the studio, Blazy said, he asks his team, “Would you wear this?” Sometimes they say no. Then, he asks them, “Why did you design it?”
Last season he began styling his shows himself, which he will do again this season. “I would rather make my own mistakes,” he said.
He is glad he took his time in stepping forward. “Because now, even if I doubt, I know a question mark can become not just ‘I don’t know,’” he said. “It can become an adventure.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Clothing; Designers

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Bottega Veneta; NAICS: 449129, 458320, 459420

Identifier / keyword: Balenciaga (Fashion Label); Design; Blazy, Matthieu; Genzken, Isa; Patagonia Inc; Pvh Corp; Jeans (Apparel); Handicrafts; Vogue; Arts; Calvin Klein Inc; Chamonix Mont Blanc (France); Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Pesce, Gaetano; Ruby, Sterling; Great Britain; Entertainment; Fashion Shows; New York Fashion Week; Textiles; Philo, Phoebe; Simons, Raf; Interior Design And Furnishings; Bergdorf Goodman; England; Jewels And Jewelry; Vaccarello, Anthony; Fargo, Linda; Connecticut; Menkes, Suzy; Advertising And Marketing; Milan (Italy); Los Angeles (Calif); Kering Sa; Fashion And Apparel; Bottega Veneta; New York (Magazine); Carpets And Rugs; Workplace Environment; Friedman, Vanessa V; Dating And Relationships; Yves Saint Laurent; Prada Spa; Marist College; Wright, Frank Lloyd; Louis Vuitton; Birds; British Vogue (Magazine); Jil Sander Ag; Ears And Hearing; Collectors And Collections; Gucci; Williams, Pharrell; Labor And Jobs; Lee, Daniel (Designer); Magazines; Trump, Donald J; France; Singapore; Chalayan, Hussein

Title: The Magician of Milan

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-20T20:47:38Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866620749

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/magician-milan/docview/28666 20749/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Answering Calls On the Party Line: [Style Desk]

Author: Guerrero, Melissa; Katie Van Syckle

Publication info: Guerrero, Melissa; Katie Van Syckle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/answering-calls-on-party-line/docview/2865442211/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Kering Foundation held a benefit, Haider Ackermann hosted an intimate dinner and LaQuan Smith threw an after-party.
A crowd frequently spotted on yachts filled the Pool restaurant in Midtown Manhattan on Tuesday night for the second annual Caring for Women Dinner hosted by the Kering Foundation.
"I said yes because Salma asked," Oprah Winfrey, a co-chair for the dinner, said as she addressed the room, referring to Salma Hayek Pinault, who is also a co-chair and board member of the Kering Foundation.
The space was filled to the brim with tropical plants and marquee names.
"I don't get out much," Ms. Winfrey said, adding, "I only come out with the intention of using my voice in a way that can be meaningful and helpful."
Inside the dining room, where guests were served a dinner of scallop aguachile and lamb belly, Leonardo DiCaprio sat with Olivia Wilde, Prabal Gurung and Malala Yousafzai, and across from Zoë Kravitz and her partner, Channing Tatum.
Also at the table was François-Henri Pinault, Ms. Hayek Pinault's husband and the chairman and chief executive of Kering, the luxury group that owns brands including Gucci, Balenciaga and Saint Laurent. (Mr. Pinault's family office, Artémis, recently bought a majority stake in one of Hollywood's biggest talent agencies, Creative Artists Agency.)
Seated nearby was Kim Kardashian, Lindsey Vonn, the skier, and Lauren Sánchez, who is engaged to Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder.
The gala dinner, which also featured an auction and performance from Florence Welch of Florence and The Machine, raised more than $ 3 million to benefit the National Network to End Domestic Violence, the Malala Fund and the New York City Alliance Against Sexual Violence.
"Well, look, it's always fun to feel beautiful and glamorous," said the journalist Lisa Ling, who served as a host. "But really the reason I'm here, and the reason I am honored to be here, is because of the work that this foundation is doing."
What were you thinking about when you got dressed tonight?
What was the highlight of your fashion week?
What is the trick to getting dressed for a gala?
Haider Ackermann and Augustinus Bader Dinner
On a quiet block on the Upper East Side, about 40 guests, including the filmmaker Sofia Coppola, the actor Oscar Isaac, the singer and model Karen Elson, the actor and musician Jared Leto and the architect Peter Marino, trickled into a small dinner on Friday night at the Salon 94 gallery, in part, to celebrate a very expensive face cream.
It was the first collaboration between Augustinus Bader, known for its high-priced creams and serums, and Haider Ackermann, who was a guest designer for Jean Paul Gaultier earlier this year.
Mr. Ackermann designed a silver, limited edition bottle (which costs $ 565), and said he wanted to create a mirror-like vessel to signify the ritual of looking at oneself in the morning.
"You can carry it everywhere with you and just have a look at yourself," he said.
Guests waited patiently for dinner to begin, snacking on miniature crab and apple bites, chatting politely until Timothée Chalamet, Mr. Ackermann's "beloved TIMO BRO," and Kylie Jenner, whom he dressed for this year's Met Gala, arrived to the flash of photographers. Mr. Chalamet hugged Mr. Ackermann and the actor's "Dune" co-star, Mr. Isaac.
Mr. Chalamet and Ms. Jenner's recent appearances together at Beyoncé's Renaissance show in Los Angeles and the U.S. Open have been popular online fodder, further stirring dating rumors. At the dinner, the pair held hands and posed for photographs as a security guard waited several feet away.
Shortly after they arrived, guests moved to a long dinner table for squash blossoms and roasted striped bass. A bottle of the brand's rich cream was placed at each seat.
Is there anything you do to feel better if you're not feeling beautiful?
What were you thinking about when you got dressed tonight?
LaQuan Smith Spring 2024 After-party
In a cavernous venue on West 57th Street, a large replica of Michelangelo's "David" greeted guests like the model Coco Rocha, the actress Vivica A. Fox and the rapper Saweetie as they arrived at the after-party for LaQuan Smith's spring 2024 show.
Held at the Stranger nightclub, advertised as a "panoply of pleasures," the space felt like a surreal Cirque du Soleil fun house with oversized animals.
Mr. Smith was piled with hellos and praises as he wove through the crowd. Guests dressed in sheer tops and metallic colorways mimicked the boldness of outfits worn by Beyoncé, Rihanna and Vice President Kamala Harris, which were designed by him.
In a crowded karaoke room, Jackie Aina, the beauty influencer, rapped through "Put It on da Floor Again," the hit featuring Latto and Cardi B.
Topless dancers and a panda mascot rotated through a central platform across the D.J. booth on the main stage; bubbles and confetti floated above the dance floor; and a trapeze artist in a red corset was on top of a rainbow playground parachute.
Yvonne Orji, the actor, arrived just before 2 a.m. with Elaine Welteroth, the journalist and author, who said it was a rare night out for her.
"I think that only LaQuan can get me out of the house in a metallic silver miniskirt," Ms. Welteroth said.
Ms. Orji spent fashion week celebrating Black designers, like Mr. Smith and Sergio Hudson. "And on the heels of Coco Gauff winning the U.S. Open," she said, "it's just a beautiful Black weekend."
On the days when you don't feel your highest self, what do you do to get there?
When do you really feel your best?
What is the recipe for what you think is cool?
Photograph Timothée Chalamet, left, and Kylie Jenner, right, with Haid; Elaine Welteroth at the LaQuan Smith party.; Sofia Coppola at the Haider Ackermann party.; Karen Elson at the Haider Ackermann party.; Paloma Elsesser at the Haider Ackermann party.; Channing Tatum, Nicole Kidman and Isabelle Huppert at the Caring for Women event.; Kim Kardashian and Salma Hayek Pinault at the Caring for Women event.; Yvonne Orji at the LaQuan Smith party.; Oscar Isaac and Elvira Lind at the Haider Ackermann party.; Zoë Kravitz at the Caring for Women event.; Bethann Hardison at the Caring for Women event.; Vivica A. Fox at the LaQuan Smith party.; Malala Yousafzai, Oprah Winfrey and François-Henri Pinault at the Caring for Women event.; LaQuan Smith at his party. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOLLY FAIBYSHEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (LaQUAN SMITH); DOLLY FAIBYSHEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (HAIDER ACKERMANN); REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (CARING FOR WOMEN)) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Domestic violence

Location: United States--US

People: Hayek, Salma; Tatum, Channing; Smith, LaQuan; Kardashian, Kim; Fox, Vivica; Yousafzai, Malala; Jenner, Kylie; Coppola, Sofia; Winfrey, Oprah; Welteroth, Elaine

Company / organization: Name: Augustinus Bader; NAICS: 325620

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/14/style/nyfw-party-oprah-ky lie-jenner-timothee-chalamet.html

Title: Answering Calls On the Party Line:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865442211

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/answering-calls-on-party-line/docview/2865442211/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At the Top of an Empire Built on 'Desirability': [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Alderman, Liz; Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Alderman, Liz; Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-top-empire-built-on-desirability/docview/2865442127/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: One afternoon in July, not long after being named the wealthiest man on the planet by Forbes, Bernard Arnault, the head of the LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton luxury goods empire, took his place on a stage with a view of the Eiffel Tower before a packed crowd of French dignitaries and reporters.
In the front row sat four of his five adult children -- the fifth was watching from New York, where he is an executive at Tiffany & Company. Their father had raised all of them since they could walk to one day run the LVMH conglomerate.
The occasion was Mr. Arnault's announcement that LVMH would provide 150 million euros (about $ 161 million) to sponsor the 2024 Paris Olympics. LVMH companies will play a starring role. Chaumet, a Paris jeweler whose clients once included Napoleon's wife Joséphine, will design the Olympic medals, and Moët Hennessy wines will flow in hospitality suites.
"The partnership will help promote France throughout the world," Mr. Arnault declared. As television cameras zoomed in, his eldest son, Antoine, the head of communications and image for LVMH, uttered what could be a tagline for this huge company his father has built: "For a dream, there is no price."
It was a moment of public triumph for Mr. Arnault, a sign of how embedded in the fabric of France LVMH has become. Over more than 30 years, he has forged LVMH into the world's largest luxury group and the most valuable company in France, with a presence in 81 countries. His brands -- 75 of them -- are the stars of the luxury world, including Louis Vuitton, Christian Dior, Tiffany and Dom Pérignon Champagne. It has given him entree to prime ministers and presidents, and allowed him to amass a museum-worthy art collection.
But his success has brought challenges. In France, Mr. Arnault has become a lightning rod for anger over growing economic inequality. In April, 10 days after Forbes put him atop its annual list of richest people, protesters stormed his office in Paris during nationwide strikes over raising the retirement age. His effigy was burned as a symbol of capitalist evil.
Mr. Arnault's five children were taught in France's best schools and raised to take leadership posts in the business, but his dream of keeping LVMH in the family may force him to elevate one above the rest.
And in recent months LVMH's stock has taken a beating, down 19 percent since hitting a high in April. The company reported a dip in U.S. sales in the second quarter, and the Chinese economy, a big source of LVMH's revenue, is faltering.
The falling shares mean that Mr. Arnault (now worth about $ 195 billion, Forbes says) dropped to the second-richest person in the world in June, eclipsed by Elon Musk. This month, LVMH was replaced as Europe's most valuable company by Denmark's Novo Nordisk, the maker of Ozempic and Wegovy, the hugely popular drugs being used for weight loss.
At 74, Mr. Arnault has been working to make sure his company -- created by gobbling up many European luxury houses that had been weakened by bickering family owners -- will stay firmly in his family's hands, safe from corporate raiders like himself. Last year, he persuaded the board to raise the mandatory retirement age for the chief executive and chairman to 80, from 75, and created a corporate structure that ensures the family's control of LVMH, locking in his children -- each of whom has been named to highly visible positions within the company -- as the chief decision makers.
Mr. Arnault has broadened LVMH beyond extravagant playthings into the world of experiences, acquiring over 50 grand hotels and resorts. And with the Olympics deal, he has extended his tentacles more deeply into the world of sports.
Mr. Arnault's changes mean he doesn't have to retire next year as originally expected. That hasn't stopped speculation about whether he can ensure that his heirs -- who dress in almost identical Dior navy suits (save for Delphine, his one daughter, who often wears Dior skirts) -- avoid a "Succession"-like drama.
The French media is full of headlines comparing the Arnaults to the Roys, the fictional family in the HBO series. There are TikTok videos explaining why the Arnaults are "the real 'Succession' family." The family hates this talk, and takes pains to play down parallels to the show.
A Family Affair
The eldest sibling is Delphine, 48, chairman and chief executive of Christian Dior Couture and a member of the LVMH executive committee and its board. Antoine, 46, is not only in charge of the group's image and sustainability efforts but chief executive of its men's wear brand Berluti, chairman of the Italian luxury house Loro Piana, chief executive of Christian Dior S.E. and a member of the LVMH board. Both are from Mr. Arnault's first marriage, to Anne Dewavrin. The youngest three are from Mr. Arnault's second marriage, to Hélène Mercier, a Canadian concert pianist: Alexandre, 31, is executive vice president of product and communications at Tiffany; Frédéric, 28, is chief executive of Tag Heuer; and Jean, 24, is Louis Vuitton's watch director.
In a rare interview in LVMH's discreetly lavish headquarters in Paris -- this article is the first for which Mr. Arnault and his children have agreed to talk on the record to an international newspaper -- Mr. Arnault brushed off any comparison to television's Roys with a wave of his hand.
"It's not an obligation, nor inevitable, that a kid is my successor," he said, leaning back in a buttery leather chair at a round table in his private conference room. On one wall was a Picasso; on two others, Warhols. His son Antoine, in his role as image gatekeeper, sat across the table.
Mr. Arnault was wearing a white shirt, a blue tie, a navy jacket and black slacks, though these days he's usually without a tie, Antoine said, part of a more casual uniform that has accompanied new efforts to engage with the outside world. The children have been instrumental in pushing their father to be more open about the conglomerate.
"The best person inside the family or outside the family should be one day my successor," Mr. Arnault continued. "But it's not something that I hope is a duel for the near future."
Still, legacy is clearly on Mr. Arnault's mind. He grew up in Roubaix, once a booming textile center in northern France, and watched family industrial dynasties collapse as children or grandchildren took their eyes off the business or squandered inheritances.
"After one or two generations, it broke down because they had it too easy," he said. It was a mistake he vowed not to make with his own children. "I didn't want them to start going to big parties," Mr. Arnault said. "I made them work."
Business at the Dining Table
Every month, the five siblings meet with their father over lunch on the top floor of LVMH's headquarters.
For an hour and a half, they discuss business, including finances, the curve of the bracelet on a new €50,000 Vuitton watch, upcoming product introductions and the social media payoff of over-the-top events. For example, a Vuitton men's wear show by the brand's new designer, Pharrell Williams, shut down Paris's Pont Neuf and attracted such names as Kim Kardashian and LeBron James, resulting in over 16 million YouTube hits.
"Make no mistake," Jean said. "We discuss things, but at the end, it's he who decides."
Amid the bonhomie, the siblings say, Mr. Arnault is gauging how each of his children is measuring up.
A graduate of France's elite École Polytechnique, Mr. Arnault honed his children's math skills nearly every night before dinnertime. Antoine recalled that getting anything less than a perfect grade on important exams "wasn't acceptable."
Jean jokes about having "24 years of experience, because every lunch and dinner was always about work."
Ian Rogers, a former chief digital officer at LVMH, said Alexandre had told him, "My business education started when I was 9, at the breakfast table."
By age 10, Delphine was accompanying her father to Dior stores. He has made weekend inspections of LVMH properties in Paris with his children a routine for more than three decades. Alexandre said: "I remember, age 7, thinking, 'Why is he doing this, and why is he asking the same question to the same salesperson, every Saturday of the year?"'
The father paired each of his children with a mentor as they entered the business, to teach them the brands and monitor their performance. Delphine and Antoine started in novice positions (Delphine sold Dior perfume at age 17) before ascending to the C-suite. The three youngest moved more quickly into senior roles, "probably because he feels time is running out and he needs to speed up the process of learning," said Pierre-Yves Roussel, a former chief of the LVMH fashion group and the current chief executive of Tory Burch.
All of them understand that the family itself is now as much a brand as the brands they own, and have wasted no time making their presence known.
In less than two years at Tiffany, Alexandre helped seal a deal with Beyoncé and Jay-Z, creating a social media sensation. (In 2016, Alexandre persuaded his father to acquire Rimowa, a German maker of aluminum suitcases, which was founded in 1898. He immediately set about making the utilitarian luggage company cool.) Delphine created the LVMH Prize for Young Fashion Designers, a high-profile talent competition. And Antoine has thrown wide the previously closed doors of many LVMH companies with a series of "open days" that invite the public inside factories and workshops.
Their father never forced them to join LVMH, the children said. Even so, Frédéric said, "he found a way to make me want to give my life to the family business like he did." (Children from both marriages grew up vacationing together, and were raised to play tennis and piano -- their father's favorite pastimes.)
The clan has gotten bigger after two glamorous marriages: Antoine to the model and philanthropist Natalia Vodianova, and Alexandre to Géraldine Guyot, who has an accessories brand, Destree, that is independent of LVMH. Delphine's partner is a digital entrepreneur and billionaire, Xavier Niel.
When Alexandre wed Geraldine in Venice in 2021, guests included Beyoncé, Jay-Z and Roger Federer (who frequently plays tennis with Mr. Arnault). His three brothers were groomsmen. They share a family group chat, in which they swap baby pictures.
"I know it's disappointing for a lot of people," Antoine said, "but we actually get on well."
The iPhone vs. Dom Pérignon
Mr. Arnault was born into a construction company run by his father and founded by his grandfather, who took him to building sites when he was 7.
When Mr. Arnault was 28, his father handed him the keys to the business. He refocused it on real estate, and soon after moved to New Rochelle, N.Y., to expand in an environment friendlier to entrepreneurs than socialist France.
It was the era of the corporate raider, and Mr. Arnault soaked in the more aggressive approach to mergers and acquisitions. When he returned to Paris at 35, after a rather unsuccessful run developing condominiums in Palm Beach, Fla., he came back as a barbarian at the gate -- and with a new idea: A New York cabdriver had told him that he didn't know the name of France's president, "but I know Dior!"
As it happened, the French government wanted to unload a bankrupt textile conglomerate that included Dior. Mr. Arnault bought it for 1 franc, fired 9,000 people and discarded everything except Dior, which he then used to help finance a brutal takeover of LVMH, a group recently formed from the luggage maker Louis Vuitton and the Moët Hennessy Champagne and cognac house.
The battle for LVMH made his reputation. Enlisted by Henry Racamier, one of LVMH's founders, to buy shares and prevent another group from gaining control, Mr. Arnault did as he was asked, but didn't stop. He ultimately turned the tables, seized control of LVMH and forced out Mr. Racamier, who said at the time, "We would like to find a modus vivendi, but it's hard with a person like that."
His style sent shock waves through the clubby world of French business, where he became known as "the Wolf in Cashmere." It was the beginning of a three-decade spree of empire building. He pursued family-owned brands known for craftsmanship and style: Pucci, Fendi, Celine, Loro Piana. Some were happy to be bought out; some were not. Losses were rare: Gucci and Hermès slipped through his fingers after ugly public battles.
During Mr. Arnault's takeover of Tiffany in 2020, as the pandemic hurt earnings, he was accused of enlisting the French government's help to delay the deal's closing, and in the end won a discount on the negotiated price. (At $ 16 billion, it remains the luxury sector's biggest deal.)
He has expanded LVMH into luxury hospitality in recent years. LVMH's holdings include the Cipriani hotel in Venice, the Orient Express train and the "21" Club in New York. There are restaurants in flagship stores for Tiffany and Dior, and a new four-story Moët cocktail bar in Paris.
Mr. Arnault's bets have usually paid off. Luxury, in all its forms, has been one of the most resilient investments on Wall Street in the last decade.
"He was always saying, 'The iPhone is great, but who knows if we will be using an iPhone in 10 years?"' Mr. Rogers, the former chief digital officer, said. "'Whereas I know people will continue to drink Dom Pérignon."'
Mr. Arnault has steered clear of picking sides when dealing with polarizing world leaders, whether cutting the ribbon on a new Vuitton factory in Texas alongside Donald J. Trump, who was president at the time, or meeting with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, to seal a loan of art to his museum in Paris, the Fondation Louis Vuitton.
"We are like Henry Kissinger," Mr. Arnault said. "We are not there to agree or disagree on the political aspect of the country in which we are doing business."
'They Need to Find a Type of Enemy'
Mr. Arnault insisted repeatedly during the interview that his main goal was not profits. "It's desirability," he said, "and we must make sure that in 50 years we are still at the top."
"Desirability," said Mr. Roussel, the former LVMH executive, is the most popular word at the company. But it highlights a potential problem, he said: "A consumer waking up and saying, 'You know, I'm buying this product, but there's someone making so much money out of it."'
"Is it desirable that you're buying a product from someone who is the richest man in the world?"
That sentiment was not evident this summer when Mr. Arnault visited China, one of LVMH's most lucrative markets. The "richest man" headlines from months earlier earned him a rock star's welcome. In Shanghai and Chengdu, crowds followed him and vied for selfies. Mothers asked him to bless their babies.
"Like the pope. Can you believe that?" he said. He was called, he said with a laugh, "the God of Fortune."
But back home, where passion about social and financial inequality stretches back to the French Revolution, Mr. Arnault is a divisive figure: hailed by the business and political worlds for building France's biggest corporate titan, and reviled by others for his almost unimaginable wealth.
For a family that tries to keep its fortune discreet, the "richest man" ranking this year still brings an unwelcome spotlight.
"The attention that you get when you're on the top of that list," Antoine said, "you can't really prepare for that."
In April, as France's raucous nationwide protests gathered steam over President Emmanuel Macron's bid to raise the retirement age two years to 64, demonstrators broke into the LVMH headquarters, lighting smoke bombs and denouncing Mr. Arnault as the embodiment of the ultrarich.
"He is a symbol of what is wrong in this society!" one shouted. Others carried signs showing Mr. Arnault as Mr. Monopoly in a top hat, with accusations that he evaded taxes, exploited workers and laid off thousands to build power and wealth.
This month, when Mr. Arnault announced that the Arnault family would donate €10 million to Restos du Coeur, a food bank, critics said it was a drop in the bucket.
"They need to find a type of enemy," Mr. Arnault said. "France is not a country which is motivated by business success, unlike the United States."
When his friend Warren Buffett walks around Manhattan, Mr. Arnault added, "he's like a Beatle." But when Mr. Arnault visits his stores in France, "I have to be careful," he said. "I don't like this, but I need bodyguards."
Antoine has advised his father to push back, and these days Mr. Arnault stresses the company's economic contributions: hundreds of thousands of jobs created worldwide, €5.5 billion paid annually in French taxes, and vast sums for art and culture, energy sustainability, scientific research, sports and youths.
Who's Next?
What no one debates is that Mr. Arnault understood, before almost anyone else, luxury's potential as a generator of profit -- that creating beautiful things is about aspiration and belonging.
The question now is who can keep desirability at the heart of LVMH in an age of protests and global economic uncertainty.
Last year, Mr. Arnault tinkered with the corporate structure of his empire, concentrating decision-making with his five children. Each has a 20 percent stake, and they cannot sell their shares for 30 years without unanimous board approval.
His heirs "have been schooled by the best player in the world: All of them know the business," said Sidney Toledano, head of the LVMH fashion group and one of Mr. Arnault's longest-serving executives. "Are they going to be the pilots? Maybe."
If the next chief executive is not named Arnault, the children say they are OK with that. After all, Alexandre said, "there's the risk that none of us is able to run the business as well as he has."
The siblings are beginning to discuss how they can raise their own children with the same sense of duty that was instilled in them, Delphine said. Mr. Arnault has begun taking her elementary-school-age daughter on his weekend rounds of stores.
But Alexandre added: "By the time they reach ages where they can have responsibilities, my father will still probably be C.E.O. of LVMH. He'll be 110 years old."
Photograph Bernard Arnault, in front of a painting by Jean Dubuffet, outside his office at the Paris headquarters of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton. He has forged LVMH into the world's largest luxury conglomerate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1); Above, Bernard Arnault, the chief of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton. Below, in 2021 with his wife, Hélène Mercier, and his children, from left: Alexandre, Frédéric, Jean, Delphine and Antoine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DENIS CHARLET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (BU6-BU7); Top left, Mr. Arnault with Mayor Anne Hidalgo of Paris and Thomas Bach, left, the president of the International Olympic Committee. Top right, with President Donald J. Trump in 2019 at the opening of a Louis Vuitton workshop in Texas. Above, at Louis Vuitton's flagship store with colleagues, left, and with visitors, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNA MONEYMAKER/THE NEW YORK TIMES; DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Families & family life; Olympic games; Retirement; Appointments & personnel changes; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Retirement Appointments & personnel changes Social networks

Location: France

Company / organization: Name: Christian Dior; NAICS: 313240, 315250

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/14/business/bernard-arnault-lvmh-family-succession.html

Title: At the Top of an Empire Built on 'Desirability':   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--Un ited States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865442127

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-top-empire-built-on-desirability/docview/2865442127/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

TikTok Shop Aims to Turn Influencing Into Sales: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-shop-aims-turn-influencing-into-sales/docview/2863678875/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The company is beginning to introduce TikTok Shop to all of the app's users in the U.S., hoping to add a major new revenue stream.
TikTok wooed marketers from companies like Madewell, H&M and Gucci last Wednesday as part of New York Fashion Week, transforming the stylish East Village restaurant Cathédrale with a video wall showcasing fashion trends like "little luxuries" and tall mannequins wearing TikTok-inspired styles.
TikTok has cemented itself as an essential advertising venue for brands aiming to reach its young users. But at the party, the marketers were abuzz about TikTok's efforts to sell products from the app itself.
The reason: After nearly a year of testing, speculation and some internal upheaval, TikTok this week is rolling out TikTok Shop for all users in the United States. The company will expand the rollout of a Shop button on the app's home screen, which sends people to a marketplace, and drive traffic to videos that contain Shop buttons for specific products. Both enable users to buy products in a few clicks without leaving the app.
E-commerce is a significant bet for the company, which is hoping to translate the app's power as a cultural trendsetter into another big new revenue stream. But it is a venture that other popular social platforms, including Instagram, have not succeeded with in the United States.
To make it a hit, TikTok said, it is actively driving videos with shopping buttons into users' feed. The company is also, for the time being, giving generous discounts and coupons to users who shop and forgoing commissions from many sellers. TikTok said that it had already signed up 200,000 sellers to TikTok Shop and that more than 100,000 creators could make videos and livestream with shopping buttons.
"We have a very aggressive plan to make a splash in the industry and make sure that people out there understand that TikTok is a place for shopping," Nico Le Bourgeois, one of two executives overseeing TikTok Shop in the United States, said in an interview last week. "We'll be very present for Black Friday and Cyber Monday through a combination of traffic, free shipping and deals." He also said TikTok Shop would run ads on the web and elsewhere.
On Monday, TikTok's Shop button led to a page in the app with a vast array of items. Some were bizarre, like a 27-cent palm-size foldable chair and a $ 5.52 ice crusher with a hand crank. But there was also a section for verified brands like Revolve, Benefit Cosmetics and Otterbox, and products like Air Jordan sneakers.
In main TikTok feeds, creators are increasingly pitching products in videos that bear an orange Shop icon and the label "eligible for commission." People can buy the products with Apple Pay, PayPal or a credit card.
The Shop button, which now appears to 40 percent of users on the main bar of the app's home screen, started rolling out in August and will reach all of TikTok's 150 million U.S. users by early October.
An executive overhaul last month led to questions about the direction of U.S. e-commerce at the company. The person who oversaw the efforts, Sandie Hawkins, left the company for personal reasons, according to an internal memo. Mr. Le Bourgeois, who joined TikTok from Amazon, and Marni Levine, a retail executive who was most recently at Meta, replaced her in the role. They report to Bob Kang, the global e-commerce chief of the Chinese company ByteDance, which owns TikTok.
The company seems to have moved away from an initial focus on promoting shopping through livestreams, a huge industry in Asia that has not found the same resonance in North America, according to several marketers.
Craig Brommers, the chief marketing officer of the retailer American Eagle, said that when the chain tested live shopping events on TikTok in the past year, viewership was "well under what brands are experiencing in Asia-Pacific."
"The initial hypothesis was that live shopping would translate to North America -- we haven't seen that success," Mr. Brommers said. He said his company was keen to learn about other tools from TikTok Shop under its new leadership, especially if it could make it "seamless" for Gen Z shoppers to, say, watch TikTok creators in American Eagle jeans, then buy them in a few clicks.
Mr. Le Bourgeois and Ms. Levine said videos with shopping buttons from brands and creators were now TikTok Shop's main sales driver, though they said live shopping was still a priority and growing in the United States.
Creators who want to sell products from TikTok's marketplace must choose from the assortment of items TikTok has available. Alyssa Pannozzi, an indoor cycling trainer and TikTok personality with more than 200,000 followers, said that when she looked at the sea of products, many came from "foreign shops that have a hodgepodge of items."
The company has already run into accusations that it has enabled sales of shoddy or copyright-infringing products and has drawn comparisons to fast-growing Chinese shopping apps like Shein and Temu, which have flooded the market with cheap goods mailed straight from China.
TikTok's executives pushed back against such comparisons, saying it viewed itself more like Amazon or China's TMall and was using technology and manual moderation to enforce its policies, requiring "robust verification" for new sellers. The company said more than 90 percent of TikTok Shop's sellers were U.S.-based, and Mr. Le Bourgeois emphasized that a slew of major brands like Benefit, Olay, L'Oreal and e.l.f. had joined or were planning to join TikTok Shop.
Ms. Pannozzi, 37, said she was invited to join TikTok Shop a few months ago but largely ignored it until July, when she saw that her feed was flooded with QVC-style pitches and wondered if she could make money from those. She has tried to feature items from sellers with positive reviews that suit her followers -- like hair elastics and water bottles -- finding major success a few weeks ago with an advertorial video that passed more than two million views and led to over 600 sales of a Stanley-style tumbler. She said she expected to earn thousands of dollars in commissions and had joined an agency's invite-only program for TikTok Shop creators.
"Now, I'm getting a bunch of inquiries every morning when I wake up," she said. "TikTok to me now is completely different than it was a couple of months ago -- just the whole vibe of it," she added.
Paul Tran and Lynda Truong, the married founders of the South Korean skin care company Love & Pebble, attended TikTok's event with advertisers last week. They said in an interview that joining TikTok Shop this summer was "life changing," and that TikTok's offers for shoppers were generous.
Mr. Tran said the average price for the brand's core product -- a "beauty pops ice mask kit" for the face -- was about $ 39. While it was often selling for $ 7, or even $ 11, less on TikTok because of the app's discounts, he said he was still earning the same profit as he would from the standard price. Mr. Tran said he was not sure when TikTok might start taking a commission.
Ms. Levine said that TikTok could not elaborate on its future commission model but that it was "focused on getting the first of all the sellers to add their inventory to the platform."
"The name of the game is to keep people on the platform as well, whether that's through shopping, engagement of videos, whether it's through dances," Ms. Levine added. "It's always about keeping people engaged and being a part of the community."
Contact Sapna Maheshwari at sapna@nytimes.com
Photograph At the East Village restaurant Cathédrale, TikTok rolled out its new shopping feature as part of Fashion Week. The social media app is hoping TikTok Shop will add a major new revenue stream. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Alyssa Pannozzi, an indoor cycling trainer with more than 200,000 TikTok followers, posted a video that surpassed two million views and led to over 600 sales of a tumbler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAYANA SZYMCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Shopping; Electronic commerce; Video recordings

Business indexing term: Subject: Electronic commerce

Location: China; United States--US; Asia; North America

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/12/business/tiktok-shop-e-commerce.html

Title: TikTok Shop Aims to Turn Influencing Into Sales:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 12, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863678875

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-shop-aims-turn-influencing-into-sales/docview/2863678875/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

TikTok Popularizes Products. Can It Sell Them, Too?

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-popularizes-products-can-sell-them-too/docview/2863845487/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TikTok wooed marketers from companies like Madewell, H&M and Gucci on Wednesday as part of New York Fashion Week, transforming the stylish East Village restaurant Cathédrale with a video wall showcasing fashion trends like “little luxuries” and tall mannequins wearing TikTok-inspired styles.
TikTok has cemented itself as an essential advertising venue for brands aiming to reach its young users. But at the party, the marketers were abuzz about TikTok’s efforts to sell products from the app itself.
The reason: After nearly a year of testing, speculation and some internal upheaval, TikTok this week is rolling out TikTok Shop for all users in the United States. The company will expand the rollout of a Shop button on the app’s home screen, which sends people to a marketplace, and drive traffic to videos that contain Shop buttons for specific products. Both enable users to buy products in a few clicks without leaving the app.
E-commerce is a significant bet for the company, which is hoping to translate the app’s power as a cultural trendsetter into another big new revenue stream. But it is a venture that other popular social platforms, including Instagram, have not succeeded with in the United States.
To make it a hit, TikTok said, it is actively driving videos with shopping buttons into users’ feed. The company is also, for the time being, giving generous discounts and coupons to users who shop and forgoing commissions from many sellers. TikTok said that it had already signed up 200,000 sellers to TikTok Shop and that more than 100,000 creators could make videos and livestream with shopping buttons.
“We have a very aggressive plan to make a splash in the industry and make sure that people out there understand that TikTok is a place for shopping,” Nico Le Bourgeois, one of two executives overseeing TikTok Shop in the United States, said in an interview last week. “We’ll be very present for Black Friday and Cyber Monday through a combination of traffic, free shipping and deals.” He also said TikTok Shop would run ads on the web and elsewhere.
On Monday, TikTok’s Shop button led to a page in the app with a vast array of items. Some were bizarre, like a 27-cent palm-size foldable chair and a $5.52 ice crusher with a hand crank. But there was also a section for verified brands like Revolve, Benefit Cosmetics and Otterbox, and products like Air Jordan sneakers.
In main TikTok feeds, creators are increasingly pitching products in videos that bear an orange Shop icon and the label “eligible for commission.” People can buy the products with Apple Pay, PayPal or a credit card.
The Shop button, which now appears to 40% of users on the main bar of the app’s home screen, started rolling out in August and will reach all of TikTok’s 150 million U.S. users by early October.
An executive overhaul last month led to questions about the direction of U.S. e-commerce at the company. The person who oversaw the efforts, Sandie Hawkins, left the company for personal reasons, according to an internal memo. Le Bourgeois, who joined TikTok from Amazon, and Marni Levine, a retail executive who was most recently at Meta, replaced her in the role. They report to Bob Kang, the global e-commerce chief of the Chinese company ByteDance, which owns TikTok.
The company seems to have moved away from an initial focus on promoting shopping through livestreams, a huge industry in Asia that has not found the same resonance in North America, according to several marketers.
Craig Brommers, the chief marketing officer of the retailer American Eagle, said that when the chain tested live shopping events on TikTok in the past year, viewership was “well under what brands are experiencing in Asia-Pacific.”
“The initial hypothesis was that live shopping would translate to North America — we haven’t seen that success,” Brommers said. He said his company was keen to learn about other tools from TikTok Shop under its new leadership, especially if it could make it “seamless” for Gen Z shoppers to, say, watch TikTok creators in American Eagle jeans, then buy them in a few clicks.
Le Bourgeois and Levine said videos with shopping buttons from brands and creators were now TikTok Shop’s main sales driver, though they said live shopping was still a priority and growing in the United States.
Creators who want to sell products from TikTok’s marketplace must choose from the assortment of items TikTok has available. Alyssa Pannozzi, an indoor cycling trainer and TikTok personality with more than 200,000 followers, said that when she looked at the sea of products, many came from “foreign shops that have a hodgepodge of items.”
The company has already run into accusations that it has enabled sales of shoddy or copyright-infringing products and has drawn comparisons to fast-growing Chinese shopping apps like Shein and Temu, which have flooded the market with cheap goods mailed straight from China.
TikTok’s executives pushed back against such comparisons, saying it viewed itself more like Amazon or China’s TMall and was using technology and manual moderation to enforce its policies, requiring “robust verification” for new sellers. The company said more than 90% of TikTok Shop’s sellers were U.S.-based, and Le Bourgeois emphasized that a slew of major brands like Benefit, Olay, L’Oreal and e.l.f. had joined or were planning to join TikTok Shop.
Pannozzi, 37, said she was invited to join TikTok Shop a few months ago but largely ignored it until July, when she saw that her feed was flooded with QVC-style pitches and wondered if she could make money from those. She has tried to feature items from sellers with positive reviews that suit her followers — like hair elastics and water bottles — finding major success a few weeks ago with an advertorial video that passed more than 2 million views and led to more than 600 sales of a Stanley-style tumbler. She said she expected to earn thousands of dollars in commissions and had joined an agency’s invite-only program for TikTok Shop creators.
“Now, I’m getting a bunch of inquiries every morning when I wake up,” she said. “TikTok to me now is completely different than it was a couple of months ago — just the whole vibe of it,” she added.
Paul Tran and Lynda Truong, the married founders of South Korean skin care company Love & Pebble, attended TikTok’s event with advertisers last week. They said in an interview that joining TikTok Shop this summer was “life changing,” and that TikTok’s offers for shoppers were generous.
Tran said the average price for the brand’s core product — a “beauty pops ice mask kit” for the face — was about $39. While it was often selling for $7, or even $11, less on TikTok because of the app’s discounts, he said he was still earning the same profit as he would from the standard price. Tran said he was not sure when TikTok might start taking a commission.
Levine said that TikTok could not elaborate on its future commission model but that it was “focused on getting the first of all the sellers to add their inventory to the platform.”
“The name of the game is to keep people on the platform as well, whether that’s through shopping, engagement of videos, whether it’s through dances,” Levine added. “It’s always about keeping people engaged and being a part of the community.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Shopping; Electronic commerce; Restaurants; Video recordings; Skin care

Business indexing term: Subject: Electronic commerce Restaurants

Location: China; New York; United States--US; Asia; North America

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Restaurants; Black Friday And Cyber Monday (Shopping); Mobile Commerce And Payments; AmazonCom Inc; International Relations; Tiktok (Bytedance); American Eagle; Gucci; North America; Apple Pay; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Madewell; United States; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; New York Fashion Week; Relocation Of Business; Shein (Fashion Label); Beijing Bytedance Technology Co Ltd; Temu (Website); Marni Group; H & M Hennes & Mauritz Ab; Cosmetics And Toiletries; East Village (Manhattan, Ny); Social Media; Instagram Inc; South Korea; Shopping And Retail; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Fashion And Apparel; Generation Z; Real Estate (Commercial); Business; Far East, So uth And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Southern States (Us); China

Title: TikTok Popularizes Products. Can It Sell Them, Too?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-11T23:10:08Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863845487

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-popularizes-products-can-sell-them-too/docview/2863845487/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

William R. Phillips, 92, Who Exposed Corruption in Police Ranks, Dies: [Biography]

Author: Mcfadden, Robert D

Publication info: Mcfadden, Robert D. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/william-r-phillips-92-who-exposed-corruption/docview/2863166476/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As a police officer he was a star witness in corruption hearings. Imprisoned for murder, he claimed he'd been falsely prosecuted for speaking out.
In criminal justice circles, they still debate the case of the New York City police officer William R. Phillips. He was a star witness at televised hearings in 1971 that exposed pervasive police corruption in New York City. But he was then convicted of killing two people and went to prison for 32 years.
After more than four decades of court and parole battles, newspaper and magazine articles, books, a documentary and disputes among judges, lawyers and witnesses, the question still remains: Did he commit murder, or was he framed in retaliation for breaking the blue wall of silence?
Mr. Phillips died at 92 on April 18 at a hospital in Oregon while being treated for pneumonia, his longtime lawyer, Ronald L. Kuby, said. The death was reported in July by The Daily News in New York but apparently nowhere else.
After serving 25 years for murders that he insisted he did not commit, supporters say, Mr. Phillips essentially chose to remain in prison for seven more years by refusing in repeated parole hearings to bend to an unwritten rule that the only way for a convicted killer to win parole is to confess and repent before the board.
He acknowledged that he partook in police corruption as a patrolman in the 1960s and early '70s. When not golfing at a country club, flying his plane, taking ski trips, playing the horses or darting around town in his red sports car, he was walking a beat in Gucci loafers and collecting bags of cash from brothels, gamblers, drug dealers and others "on the pad" -- cop slang for payoff lists.
Finally, investigators caught him taking bribes from Xaviera Hollander, the madam who wrote the best-selling 1971 book "The Happy Hooker." Mr. Phillips wore a wire and went under cover to avoid prosecution. He joined Officer Frank Serpico and Detective David Durk as star witnesses at the hearings of the Knapp Commission, which detailed endemic police corruption in New York.
The three men spoke about payoffs in virtually every precinct, with patrolmen, sergeants and higher-ups sharing money from merchants and mobsters, handed over to avoid arrests and for other favors. They became pariahs in a department known for its code of silence.
Mr. Phillips may have been a hero to the public, but a homicide detective who saw him testify on television told prosecutors that he resembled the sketch of a man wanted in a cold murder case. Reports later emerged that the detective who had started the inquiry was a close friend of a police lieutenant who, believing that Mr. Phillips had identified him as a grafter, killed himself.
Mr. Phillips was arrested and charged with murdering a pimp and a prostitute in a Manhattan brothel at about 8:30 p.m. on Dec. 24, 1968. But from the start, evidence against him was contradictory. A half-dozen relatives and friends gave Mr. Phillips hour-by-hour alibis, placing him in three homes on a round of preholiday visits from 4 p.m. until past midnight.
The key witness against him was Charles Gonzales, the prostitute's customer. He was shot by the killer in an arm and his abdomen before falling forward as if he were dead. A drinker and a former mental patient, Mr. Gonzales described the killer as older, grayer and shorter than Mr. Phillips and with a "pockmarked Italian face." He had initially picked someone else out of a lineup that included Mr. Phillips.
The pimp, James Smith -- a.k.a. James Goldberg -- who had paid bribes to Mr. Phillips for protection, and the prostitute, Sharon Stango, 18, were shot point-blank with a .38-caliber revolver as they sat on a couch pleading for their lives, prosecutors said. They said that Mr. Smith was killed over a $ 1,000 debt and that Ms. Stango and Mr. Gonzales were shot because they had witnessed the pimp's murder.
There was no physical evidence in the case, which centered on Mr. Gonzales's testimony. Mr. Phillips insisted for decades that he was framed after testifying about police corruption.
There were two trials. The first, in 1972, in which the criminal lawyer F. Lee Bailey defended Mr. Phillips, ended in a mistrial, with the jury deadlocked 10 to 2 for acquittal. Jurors said they had not believed Mr. Gonzales.
Mr. Phillips was convicted in the second trial, in 1974, and sentenced to 25 years to life. It was later revealed that a juror had applied for a job with the Manhattan district attorney's office during the trial, and that the prosecutors did not tell the judge until after the verdict. That potential bias led two New York State appeals courts to reverse the original verdict.
But in a further proceeding, the United States Supreme Court let the conviction stand. Writing for a 6-to-3 majority, Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist said, "Due process does not require a new trial every time a juror has been placed in a compromising situation."
His options exhausted, Mr. Phillips became a model prisoner and a jailhouse lawyer. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees with perfect grades from the State University of New York, wrote legal briefs and taught law classes for inmates, ran a prison library, worked for charities and, with an unblemished record, became one of the state's oldest inmates.
But his health declined. He lost an eye to cancer, had prostate cancer and survived a stroke.
When he became eligible for parole after 25 years, his records were filled with recommendations for his release from wardens, college deans, judges and federal agents. Manhattanville College, in Westchester County, offered him a job. But the parole board denied his application. His defenders said it was because he had refused to admit guilt.
At another hearing, in 2003, he acknowledged being guilty of "reprehensible conduct" but not of murder. Parole was again denied. The board called Mr. Phillips "a criminal of the worst kind whose danger to public safety is in the highest degree."
He appealed, and Justice Alice Schlesinger of State Supreme Court in Manhattan called the board's ruling "perverted" and "contrary to the law." She asked, "Does the board honestly believe that Mr. Phillips, a 74-year-old man, half-blind from cancer, who has helped countless people and learned and taught the principles of law to many, truly is a continuing threat to society?"
The board was unmoved. In 2006, however, Justice Marcy Friedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan ordered Mr. Phillips released, calling the board's actions "irrational" and "arbitrary." The board appealed, saying the judiciary had no authority to grant parole, and won.
"The only way the state will ever let Bill Phillips out of prison is in a body bag," said one of his lawyers, Daniel Perez. "Everything that's been done has been calculated to delay his release. And for a half-blind 76-year-old man that's sick with cancer, and that's served out his time, it's unconscionable."
Before his last parole hearing, a year later, Mr. Phillips told New York magazine of his dilemma. "Picture yourself," he said. "Your life is depending on you admitting to something you didn't do."
Finally, he told the board what he thought it wanted to hear, saying he was guilty and voicing regret. He was released in 2007, ending 32 years in prison.
Michael F. Armstrong, a former Queens district attorney who was the Knapp Commission's chief counsel in the corruption hearings, said that Mr. Phillips did not remotely fit the description of the killer, and that his refusal to admit guilt before the parole board had effectively cost him seven more years in prison -- persuasive evidence, he said, that he had not committed the murders.
"I don't think he did it," Mr. Armstrong said in an interview for this obituary in 2015. "If you say, 'I didn't do it,' that ensures you won't get parole. All he had to do was say that he did it and was sorry. If you're going to make parole, you have to crawl."
William Raymond Phillips was born in Manhattan on May 6, 1930, to William and Florence (Leavy) Phillips. His father was a New York police officer who brought bags of cash home at Christmastime. A high school dropout, Bill joined the Air Force and was an aircraft mechanic in the Korean War.
His first marriage, to Camille Bates, ended in divorce. His second wife, Laurel Phillips, survives him. The couple, who had no children, lived in Grants Pass, a small city in southern Oregon.
Mr. Phillips joined the Police Department in 1957. In a few years he was taking payoffs. "I dressed like a million dollars," he told The Times in an interview in 2006 at the Fishkill Correctional Facility in Beacon, N.Y. "I was an East Side guy. Making money, hanging around, chasing broads."
"My life was one big fun," he said in a memoir, "On the Pad," written with Leonard Shecter and published in 1973.
The fun ended when Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed the Knapp Commission to investigate police corruption. Mr. Phillips, caught trying to collect a payoff, went under cover (he was initially identified at a commission hearing as "Patrolman P") to get evidence.
The authorities over the years have agreed that the commission helped break a culture of police corruption. But the immediate fallout was minimal.
Dozens of officers were charged, while top police and city officials were not. Many prosecutions were dropped because Mr. Phillips's murder conviction destroyed his credibility as a witness and to some extent undermined the findings of the commission.
His case was explored again by Mr. Armstrong in the book "They Wished They Were Honest" (2012), and by the director Ido Mizrahy in the documentary "Patrolman P" (2013). Promoting the documentary at a film festival in New York, Mr. Phillips theorized that a loan shark had committed the killings.
"The entire case they had against me was the identification that I was a 5-foot-8 pockmarked Italian," he said. "Do I look like a 5-foot-8 pockmarked Italian?"
He was six feet tall and, friends said, had a ruddy Irish face.
Alex Traub contributed reporting.
Alex Traub contributed reporting.
Photograph In televised hearings, William R. Phillips testified in 1971 before the Knapp Commission, which investigated corruption in the New York Police Department. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDDIE HAUSNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. Phillips at Fishkill Correctional Facility in Beacon, N.Y., in 2007. He was released on parole that year. Mr. Phillips, right, preparing to resume his 1971 testimony. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW SPIEGELMAN; UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Cancer; Parole boards; Witnesses; Evidence; Prison libraries; Payoffs; School dropouts; Trials; Police corruption; Criminal investigations; Acquittals & mistrials; Prisoners; Sex industry; Murders & murder attempts; Parole & probation; Deaths

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York; Oregon

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/08/nyregion/william-r-phillips-dead.html

Title: William R. Phillips, 92, Who Exposed Corruption in Police Ranks, Dies:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2863166476

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/william-r-phillips-92-who-exposed-corruption/docview/2863166476/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

William Phillips, Who Exposed Corruption in Police Ranks, Dies at 92

Author: McFadden, Robert D

Publication info: McFadden, Robert D. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/william-phillips-who-exposed-corruption-police/docview/2863123142/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In criminal justice circles, they still debate the case of New York City police officer William Phillips. He was a star witness at televised hearings in 1971 that exposed pervasive police corruption in the city. But he was then convicted of killing two people and went to prison for 32 years.
After more than four decades of court and parole battles, newspaper and magazine articles, books, a documentary and disputes among judges, lawyers and witnesses, the question still remains: Did he commit murder or was he framed in retaliation for breaking the blue wall of silence?
Phillips died at 92 on April 18 at a hospital in Oregon while being treated for pneumonia, said his longtime lawyer, Ronald Kuby. The death was reported in July by The Daily News in New York but apparently nowhere else.
After serving 25 years for murders that he insisted he did not commit, supporters say, Phillips essentially chose to remain in prison for seven more years by refusing in repeated parole hearings to bend to an unwritten rule that the only way for a convicted killer to win parole is to confess and repent before the board.
He acknowledged that he partook in police corruption as a patrolman in the 1960s and early ’70s. When not golfing at a country club, flying his plane, taking ski trips, playing the horses or darting around town in his red sports car, he was walking a beat in Gucci loafers and collecting bags of cash from brothels, gamblers, drug dealers and others “on the pad” — cop slang for payoff lists.
Finally, investigators caught him taking bribes from Xaviera Hollander, a madam who wrote the bestselling 1971 book “The Happy Hooker.” Phillips wore a wire and went under cover to avoid prosecution. He joined Officer Frank Serpico and Detective David Durk as star witnesses at the hearings of the Knapp Commission, which detailed endemic police corruption in New York.
The three men spoke about payoffs in virtually every precinct, with patrolmen, sergeants and higher-ups sharing money from merchants and mobsters, handed over to avoid arrests and for other favors. The three became pariahs in a department known for its code of silence.
Phillips may have been a hero to the public, but a homicide detective who saw him testify on television told prosecutors that he resembled the sketch of a man wanted in a cold murder case. Reports later emerged that the detective who had started the inquiry was a close friend of a police lieutenant who, believing that Phillips had identified him as a grafter, killed himself.
Phillips was arrested and charged with murdering a pimp and a prostitute in a Manhattan brothel at about 8:30 p.m. on Dec. 24, 1968. But from the start, evidence against him was contradictory. A half-dozen relatives and friends gave Phillips hour-by-hour alibis, placing him in three homes on a round of preholiday visits from 4 p.m. until past midnight.
The key witness against him was Charles Gonzales, the prostitute’s customer. He was shot by the killer in an arm and his abdomen before falling forward as if he were dead. A drinker and a former mental patient, Gonzales described the killer as older, grayer and shorter than Phillips and with a “pockmarked Italian face.” He had initially picked someone else out of a lineup that included Phillips.
The pimp, James Smith — aka James Goldberg — who had paid bribes to Phillips for protection, and the prostitute, Sharon Stango, 18, were shot point-blank with a .38-caliber revolver as they sat on a couch pleading for their lives, prosecutors said. They said that Smith was killed over a $1,000 debt and that Stango and Gonzales were shot because they had witnessed the pimp’s murder.
There was no physical evidence in the case, which centered on Gonzales’ testimony. Phillips insisted for decades that he was framed after testifying about police corruption.
There were two trials. The first, in 1972, in which criminal lawyer F. Lee Bailey defended Phillips, ended in a mistrial, with the jury deadlocked 10-2 for acquittal. Jurors said they had not believed Gonzales.
Phillips was convicted in the second trial, in 1974, and sentenced to 25 years to life. It was later revealed that a juror had applied for a job with the Manhattan district attorney’s office during the trial and that the prosecutors did not tell the judge until after the verdict. That potential bias led two New York state appeals courts to reverse the original verdict.
But in a further proceeding, the U.S. Supreme Court let the conviction stand. Writing for a 6-3 majority, Associate Justice William Rehnquist said, “Due process does not require a new trial every time a juror has been placed in a compromising situation.”
His options exhausted, Phillips became a model prisoner and a jailhouse lawyer. He earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees with perfect grades from the State University of New York, wrote legal briefs and taught law classes for inmates, ran a prison library, worked for charities and, with an unblemished record, became one of the state’s oldest inmates.
But his health declined. He lost an eye to cancer, had prostate cancer and survived a stroke.
When he became eligible for parole after 25 years, his records were filled with recommendations for his release from wardens, college deans, judges and federal agents. Manhattanville College, in Westchester County, offered him a job. But the parole board denied his application. His defenders said it was because he had refused to admit guilt.
At another hearing, in 2003, he acknowledged being guilty of “reprehensible conduct” but not of murder. Parole was again denied. The board called Phillips “a criminal of the worst kind whose danger to public safety is in the highest degree.”
He appealed, and Justice Alice Schlesinger of New York Supreme Court in Manhattan called the board’s ruling “perverted” and “contrary to the law.” She asked, “Does the board honestly believe that Mr. Phillips, a 74-year-old man, half-blind from cancer, who has helped countless people and learned and taught the principles of law to many, truly is a continuing threat to society?”
The board was unmoved. In 2006, however, Justice Marcy Friedman of New York Supreme Court in Manhattan ordered Phillips released, calling the board’s actions “irrational” and “arbitrary.” The board appealed, saying the judiciary had no authority to grant parole, and won.
“The only way the state will ever let Bill Phillips out of prison is in a body bag,” said one of his lawyers, Daniel Perez. “Everything that’s been done has been calculated to delay his release. And for a half-blind 76-year-old man that’s sick with cancer, and that’s served out his time, it’s unconscionable.”
Before his last parole hearing, a year later, Phillips told New York magazine of his dilemma. “Picture yourself,” he said. “Your life is depending on you admitting to something you didn’t do.”
Finally, he told the board what he thought it wanted to hear, saying he was guilty and voicing regret. He was released in 2007, ending 32 years in prison.
Michael Armstrong, a former Queens district attorney who was the Knapp Commission’s chief counsel in the corruption hearings, said that Phillips did not remotely fit the description of the killer and that his refusal to admit guilt before the parole board had effectively cost him seven more years in prison — persuasive evidence, he said, that he had not committed the murders.
“I don’t think he did it,” Armstrong said in an interview for this obituary in 2015. “If you say, ‘I didn’t do it,’ that ensures you won’t get parole. All he had to do was say that he did it and was sorry. If you’re going to make parole, you have to crawl.”
William Raymond Phillips was born in Manhattan on May 6, 1930, to William and Florence (Leavy) Phillips. His father was a New York police officer who brought bags of cash home at Christmastime. A high school dropout, Bill joined the Air Force and was an aircraft mechanic in the Korean War.
His first marriage, to Camille Bates, ended in divorce. His second wife, Laurel Phillips, survives him. The couple, who had no children, lived in Grants Pass, a small city in southern Oregon.
Phillips joined the Police Department in 1957. In a few years, he was taking payoffs. “I dressed like a million dollars,” he told The New York Times in an interview in 2006 at the Fishkill Correctional Facility in Beacon, New York. “I was an East Side guy. Making money, hanging around, chasing broads.”
“My life was one big fun,” he said in a memoir, “On the Pad,” written with Leonard Shecter and published in 1973.
The fun ended when Mayor John Lindsay appointed the Knapp Commission to investigate police corruption. Phillips, caught trying to collect a payoff, went undercover — he was initially identified at a commission hearing as “Patrolman P” — to get evidence.
Authorities over the years have agreed that the commission helped break a culture of police corruption. But the immediate fallout was minimal.
Dozens of officers were charged, while top police and city officials were not. Many prosecutions were dropped because Phillips’ murder conviction destroyed his credibility as a witness and, to some extent, undermined the findings of the commission.
His case was explored again by Armstrong in the book “They Wished They Were Honest” (2012) and by director Ido Mizrahy in the documentary “Patrolman P” (2013). Promoting the documentary at a film festival in New York, Phillips theorized that a loan shark had committed the killings.
“The entire case they had against me was the identification that I was a 5-foot-8 pockmarked Italian,” he said. “Do I look like a 5-foot-8 pockmarked Italian?”
He was 6 feet tall and, friends said, had a ruddy Irish face.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Cancer; Evidence; Parole boards; Payoffs; Prison libraries; School dropouts; Trials; Police corruption; Acquittals & mistrials; Criminal investigations; Prisoners; Murders & murder attempts; Sex industry; Parole & probation; Deaths

Location: New York; United States--US; Oregon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Supreme Court-New York; NAICS: 922110

Identifier / keyword: Movies; United States; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Decisions And Verdicts; Witnesses; Schlesinger, Alice; Gucci; New York Daily News; Queens (Nyc); State University Of New York; Manhattan (Nyc); Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Phillips, William R; Kuby, Ronald L; Documentary Films And Programs; Deaths (Obituaries); Police Department (Nyc); Rehnquist, William H; Oregon; Lindsay, John V; New York City; Animal Abuse, Rights And Welfare; Prisons And Prisoners; Philanthropy; Mcfadden, Robert D; Fugitives; Hiring And Promotion; Bailey, F Lee; Serpico, Frank; Fishkill Correctional Facility (Beacon, Ny); Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Fishkill (Ny); South Korea; Manhattanville College; Manhattanville (Manhattan, Ny); Grants Pass (Ore); Bribery And Kickbacks; Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Westchester County (Ny); Fashion And Apparel; Law And Legislation; New York (Magazine); Amnesties, Commutations And Pardons; Deaths (Fatalities); Armstrong, Michael F; Newspapers; Ears And Hearing; Prostitution; Supreme Courts (State); Jury System; Probation And Parole; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Books And Literature

Title: William Phillips, Who Exposed Corruption in Police Ranks, Dies at 92

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-10T22:09:05Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2863123142

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/william-phillips-who-exposed-corruption-police/docview/2863123142/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Photographs Intended To Melt Calcified Ideas: [Style Desk]

Author: Ruth La Ferla

Publication info: Ruth La Ferla. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/photographs-intended-melt-calcified-ideas/docview/2862896647/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The photographer's new exhibition explores Black masculinity and queerness.
Growing up in South Philadelphia, Quil Lemons first trained his lens on family and friends, his photographs of cousins and neighbors snaring the art world's attention.
By the time he was 20, he was focusing on young Black men as the subjects of "Glitterboy," a series that highlighted, as its title suggests, adolescents slathered in glitter and colorful grease.
Lately, Mr. Lemons has expanded his range. "Quiladelphia," his new group of highly provocative, radically intimate photographs, on view through Nov. 4 at the Hannah Traore Gallery on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, is billed as an exploration of Black manhood.
Speaking by phone from his apartment in Brooklyn, Mr. Lemons, 26, said that his portraits, paradoxically raw and refined, were meant to dissolve calcified notions of Black masculinity, family, queerness, race and beauty.
"I've become more radical and so has the work," Mr. Lemons said. "I have to keep dismantling what it means to be Black and queer."
His mostly black-and-white photographs contain plenty of nudity, and in one image, penetrative sex.
There are plenty of memorable portraits, like "Thugpop," a character draped in a bridal veil, a rosary dangling from his lips, or "Matt," clad in stars-and-stripes-patterned tights and suspended from a rack. There's also an unidentified subject in a crown of thorns hoisting a flag. Themes of faith and patriotism, subverted though Mr. Lemons's lens, wind through the show.
Mr. Lemons's images tend to mirror his personal experiences and those of others in his orbit, he said: "They enable people who have lived in the margins to take center stage."
His less confrontational, commercial work has appeared in Allure, Garage, i-D, Shadowplay, The New York Times and Vanity Fair, which splashed his portrait of Billie Eilish on its March 2021 cover. Calvin Klein, Gucci, Moncler and Valentino have been among his fashion clients.
His "Quiladelphia" portraits are often nakedly emotional. In an image of Matt, the subject's soft gaze suggests a candid vulnerability. In another portrait, "Ray," the subject, flashes a spiky sidelong glance.
Mr. Lemons's work is part of a continuum of queer erotic photography that dates at least from the 1970s. It is rooted in the work of artists and photographers including Robert Mapplethorpe, Nan Goldin, Peter Hujar and others. But most of those earlier artists were white, and their work reflected that identity.
Like many of his predecessors, Mr. Lemons is close to his subjects, some of whom work as escorts or perform in pornography films. That helps explain why the people in his images appear so comfortable and free, suggested Ms. Traore, the owner of the gallery. Their ease with the camera changes visitors' perspectives, and that is the point.
Antwaun Sargent, a writer, curator and a director of the Gagosian Gallery in New York, showcased Mr. Lemons's work in "The New Black Vanguard," a volume of photography he edited. "Quil photographs what is going on," Mr. Sargent said in an interview. "This work really is a snapshot of his lived experience."
If some of that work has an elegiac cast, it is not by chance. Mr. Lemons has an eerie sense of mortality, his own and that of others. "I've lost a lot of people to age," he said. "And most of the friends I grew up with are dead or in jail. I've spent some years thinking about the people I've left behind."
Despite his youth, he has cultivated a sense of urgency. "We have 70ish years to fulfill our goals," he said. One of his objectives, he said, "is to expand our ideas of correctness."
"For a long time in the art world, people didn't look like me," he said. "But we're getting closer to recognizing things we didn't see before."
Photograph Paradoxically raw and refined: "Untitled," 2023, by Quil Lemons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QUIL LEMONS) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Calcification; Photographs

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/08/style/quil-lemons-wants-to-be-the-robert-mapplethorpe-of-his-community.html

Title: Photographs Intended To Melt Calcified Ideas:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 10, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862896647

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/photographs-intended-melt-calcified-ideas/docview/2862896647/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kering's Chief Strikes Deal For the Talent Agency CAA: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren; Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren; Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kerings-chief-strikes-deal-talent-agency-caa/docview/2862038298/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The deal for Creative Artists Agency by François-Henri Pinault's family office reflects the growing convergence of celebrities and fashion.
In a deal that shows the ever-growing convergence of fashion and fame, François-Henri Pinault, the French billionaire and chief executive of the luxury goods company Kering, said on Thursday that his family office had bought a majority stake in one of Hollywood's biggest talent agencies, Creative Artists Agency.
Mr. Pinault's family office, Artémis, already has investments that include the auction house Christie's and a stake in Puma. Like them, CAA will be managed separately from Kering, which owns such brands as Gucci, Saint Laurent and Balenciaga.
Talent -- actors, singers, filmmakers -- has become a uniquely powerful tool in selling products. Celebrities, be they actors, athletes or social media stars, give a brand direct access to legions of followers and are handsomely paid for that access. Fashion brands are increasingly racing to lock in relationships with the next big name.
"There's no separation between fashion and entertainment anymore," said Robert Burke, the eponymous founder of a luxury consultancy, calling the deal a "natural, if unprecedented, evolution."
CAA's clients include some of the biggest celebrities: Tom Hanks, Steven Spielberg and Zendaya -- as well as Mr. Pinault's wife, the actress Salma Hayek Pinault, who is often next to her husband in the front row of fashion shows, and who often wears Gucci and Balenciaga gowns on the red carpet.
The deal offers Artémis "increased diversity, both in terms of geographical footprint and business activities, to our other assets," Mr. Pinault said in a statement. "CAA's exceptional insight, relationships and access across key sectors, combined with their widely regarded level of collaboration and innovation, gives the company a formidable role in driving global opportunities."
CAA has been led by the powerhouse team of Bryan Lourd, Kevin Huvane and Richard Lovett, and they will remain as chairmen, according to a news release about the deal. Mr. Lourd will be named chief executive when the deal closes.
Along with the appointment of the music producer Pharrell Williams as creative director of Louis Vuitton men's wear, the CAA acquisition reflects just how important access to celebrity has become to the fashion world -- and how important fashion is to celebrities. Especially during the actors' strike, as commercial work with brands remains one of the few avenues of income and profile-raising that the union, SAG-AFTRA, approves.
In 2010, the private equity firm TPG took a 35 percent stake in CAA, then broadened its hold on the talent agency to 53 percent four years later. Artémis is acquiring that majority stake, according to the news release, though it did not specify the price.
The agency's rivals, meanwhile, have raced to scale up to strengthen their negotiating power with streaming powerhouses like Amazon, Netflix and Apple.
United Talent Agency, which represents celebrities like Chris Pratt, Bad Bunny and Lizzo, bought the literary agency Fletcher & Company in January after acquiring the London-based Curtis Brown agency last year. The Endeavor Group, a CAA rival, acquired full control of the wrestling business Ultimate Fighting Championship in 2021 ahead of Endeavor's initial public offering. This year, Endeavor struck a deal to merge UFC with World Wide Wrestling as part of a new company.
As these talent agencies grow -- and further intertwine themselves with fashion -- new questions may emerge about the nature of these relationships. Even if the new CAA is separate from Kering, for example, would LVMH, the world's dominant luxury group, want to pay millions to celebrities to represent its brands when it knows that a percentage of that payment will enrich a company with a relationship to its competitor?
After all, "even if it's managed separately, this offers enormous access to talent," Mr. Burke said.
The CAA acquisition is the latest in a series of moves from Mr. Pinault. This year, Kering bought a 30 percent stake in Valentino, the Roman fashion brand and red carpet staple, with an option to acquire the whole thing by 2028. That deal followed the Kering purchase of Creed, the high-end fragrance brand, for $ 3.83 billion.
And Kering itself has also ventured into film. Saint Laurent became the first luxury fashion brand with a movie subsidiary when it introduced Saint Laurent Productions in April; its debut short, directed by Pedro Almodóvar, premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in May. (Kering became an official partner of the film festival in 2015.)
As to whether other luxury moguls might follow Mr. Pinault's lead and look to acquire their own talent agency, Mr. Burke added, "I'm never surprised by anyone in fashion following someone else's smart idea."
Photograph François-Henri Pinault's move links the worlds of fashion and celebrity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN FLEISHMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); The actress and singer Zendaya is among the celebrity clients represented by Creative Artists Agency, one of Hollywood's biggest talent agencies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Actors; Celebrities; Martial arts; Motion picture festivals; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Equity stake

Company / organization: Name: Creative Artists Agency; NAICS: 711410; Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/07/business/pinault-kering-majority-stake-caa.html

Title: Kering's Chief Strikes Deal For the Talent Agency CAA:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862038298

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kerings-chief-strikes-deal-talent-agency-caa/docview/2862038298/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Prepare for the Surprises Ahead: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prepare-surprises-ahead/docview/2861547381/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It's going to be something to see, from designer debuts to the celebrities on the front rows.
It's fashion month! The news may be full of Trump indictments, extreme weather and war, but the shows stop for almost no crisis (pandemics excepted). For anyone in need of a moment of escape or some inspiration to gird yourself for the day, they may, in fact, represent an increasingly important pressure valve. There's a reason, after the Covid lockdowns, the shows have returned in full, or even greater, force -- not just as industry events, but as full-fledged entertainment happenings that are extending their tentacles far beyond the runway. So prepare yourself for approximately four weeks of impossibly glamorous photos, street style and gossip. Here's what you need to know:
All Eyes on Milan
After seasons of relative calm and predictability (some might say stultifying sameness), Milan has become the city to watch, with the two debuts of the season. First up: Sabato De Sarno at Gucci. The former Valentino No. 2 is a relative unknown, and he's taking on a huge job, following in the footsteps of Alessandro Michele, whose version of Gucci may have looked familiar at the end but which changed not only the fortunes of the brand, but the direction of fashion itself. The stakes are very high for the $ 10 billion house, which reportedly wants to move in a more classic (read: Hermès) direction. We'll know if this is the case -- and if it works -- on Sept. 22.
Then there's Peter Hawkings, another longtime deputy, who became the creative director of Tom Ford in April after the brand was sold to Estée Lauder and Mr. Ford stepped down. Mr. Hawkings worked beside Mr. Ford for decades, and judging by his official portrait, is very much in the mold of his mentor (down to the tinted aviators). Given that Mr. Ford could be said to have coasted on his greatest hits in the last few years, there's hope that Mr. Hawkings will take the brand in something of a new direction.
Finally, while Moschino searches for a new designer (Jeremy Scott, who made it meme central during his 10-year tenure, left in March), the brand is handing over its 40th-anniversary show to four stylists -- Katie Grand, Carlyne Cerf de Dudzeele, Gabriella Karefa-Johnson and Lucia Liu -- for a one-season-only inspired-by-the-archives extravaganza. The result is pretty much guaranteed to remind of us what we lost when we lost the very talented Mr. Moschino at only 44 in 1994 and why brand founders really matter.
Speaking of the Next Big Thing
Peter Do is the name to know in New York. The much-feted young designer is unveiling his first collection for Helmut Lang on Day 1 of the official New York Fashion Week schedule, no less. The beloved brand, currently owned by Fast Retailing (a.k.a. the company that started Uniqlo), had been languishing ever since the departure of its founder back in 2005. The name remains redolent with potential and good will, but not so much profit. Mr. Do's job is to make it the epicenter of cool again. No pressure there.
Also under pressure: Victoria's Secret, which will offer a de facto curtain raiser for New York Fashion Week with the premiere of the "Victoria's Secret World Tour" film/happening. It's a complicated reset of ye olde VS show involving four cities around the world, 20 designers, artists and filmmakers and a model cast that is as inclusive as possible. It's the company's first foray back to the runway since 2018. Will it be enough to convince the public that Victoria's Secret really has changed? Will there be wings? These are some of the questions.
Not the Only Thing to Watch
"Watch" being the operative word: Just in time for fashion month come three different documentaries on famous models, all of whom changed the dynamics of the industry and opened the door to the age of the influencer and the influencer-activist.
Two of the flicks are on streamers. First, "Donyale Luna: Supermodel," coming to Max on Sept. 13, tells the story of the first Black model to appear on a Vogue magazine cover. Then, on Sept. 20, "The Super Models," the much-anticipated documentary series that looks back at the careers of Linda Evangelista, Christy Turlington, Naomi Campbell and Cindy Crawford, has its debut on Apple TV+. Given the furor the models' recent cover of Vogue created, chances are this will be fodder for water cooler conversations everywhere.
Then there's "Invisible Beauty," a feature documentary that has been on the festival circuit and will be released in select theaters on Sept. 15. This is the story of Bethann Hardison, a pioneering Black model (she walked in the so-called "Battle of Versailles") and activist who started her own agency to expand fashion's narrow definition of beauty, then went on the create the Black Girls Coalition and become one of fashion's most celebrated change makers. The doc features the rare fashion figure willing to speak truth to power, even onscreen.
Speaking of Movies, Fashion and Celebrities ...
Hollywood's loss may be fashion's gain. The actors' strike has meant a dearth of red carpet appearances and film premieres, and as celebrities twiddle their thumbs, the brand ambassador gig has suddenly taken on a whole new dimension. There are no rules against commercial work during the strike, and SAG-AFTRA has actually encouraged it. Theoretically, stars are free to show up in front rows at will, and their appearances will not only keep their names and likenesses in the headlines, but help support the ecosystem of stylists, hairdressers and makeup artists generally employed for public appearance and hit hard by the strike.
That means we could be in for a few weeks of glittering frows not seen ... well, ever. Louis Vuitton counts among its contractual "friends of the house" Zendaya, whose film "Challengers" was pulled from the Venice Film Festival because of the strike, and Emma Stone, who skipped the festival even though her movie "Poor Things" was shown, as did one of the film's other stars, Margaret Qualley, a Chanel ambassador.
Dior has Jennifer Lawrence, Natalie Portman and Anya Taylor-Joy. Gucci has Dakota Johnson. And that's before we get to the K-pop supersonics and athletes who have become brand favorites.
In other words, this could really be an all-star season, in more ways than one.
Photograph Top, a new documentary, "Donyale Luna: Supermodel." Above, from left: Sabato De Sarno at Gucci and Peter Hawkings at Tom Ford. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUIGI CAZZANIGA/HBO; RICCARDO RASPA; FERRY VAN DER NAT) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Fashion models; Motion pictures; Documentary films; Celebrities; Seasons; Festivals

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Ford, Tom

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120; Name: Moschino; NAICS: 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/05/style/fashion-week-shows-events.html

Title: Prepare for the Surprises Ahead:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 7, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2861547381

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prepare-surprises-ahead/docview/2861547381/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Disruptive Power of Weight Loss Drugs Is Rippling Through Other Industries: [Correction]

Author: Walt, Vivienne; Hirsch, Lauren

Publication info: Walt, Vivienne; Hirsch, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disruptive-power-weight-loss-drugs-is-rippling/docview/2860256010/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Retailers, the makers of foods marketed for weight loss, and other types of companies could see knock-on effects from the rise of diabetes and weight loss drugs like Ozempic.
As they do every summer, publicly traded companies posted their second-quarter results while Americans were baring their bodies on the beach. But this year, the timing was apt. On several earnings calls in August, chief executives reassured investors that the Ozempic revolution had not left them in the dust, and that they could somehow share in the blazing success of new diabetes and weight loss drugs.
"It puts us in a good position to be a solution for those who are on the drugs," said Dan R. Chard, the chief executive of Medifast, which makes diet products like shakes and protein bars, adding: "They're looking for guidance." He told analysts this even while explaining that new-generation drugs had helped pummel earnings, down 34.7 percent year on year.
"We will continue to study this," Michael Johnson, the chief executive of the nutritional supplement maker Herbalife, told investors. "And when we see an opportunity to capitalize on it, we will."
In theory, that opportunity -- both for making profits and for losing fortunes -- could be vast not only for the companies behind these drugs but also for some in completely different industries.
Known as GLP-1 drugs, the medications are already driving big profits. Novo Nordisk makes both Ozempic, which has been approved only for Type 2 diabetes, and its close relative Wegovy, which has been approved for weight loss. They mimic a glucagon-like peptide that regulates appetite in the brain, leaving people feeling sated for hours. Together, they helped send Novo's earnings rocketing up 32 percent in the first half of this year, and Novo's market value is now larger than the entire Danish economy. Eli Lilly's sales surged 28 percent in the second quarter, thanks to another diabetes drug, Mounjaro, which the Food and Drug Administration may approve for weight loss this year.
And the full potential isn't even clear yet. The market for weight loss drugs is huge: There are roughly 750 million obese people worldwide, including about 42 percent of adults in the United States, where obesity-related illnesses incur billions of dollars in health care costs each year. But Novo says GLP-1 drugs could eventually have other uses, like helping prevent cardiovascular disease among obese adults. There are signs they could treat addiction and even Alzheimer's, too.
"The market potential is very, very significant," Novo's chief financial officer, Karsten Knudsen, told me when I visited the company in June. "We're operating in kind of unusual territory."
Diet companies are bracing for disruption. For decades, weight loss companies have relied on branded, prepackaged meals and lifestyle programs. Some, like WeightWatchers and Noom, have raced to sell GLP-1 drugs themselves, while others still hope their products can survive the Ozempic era. Jenny Craig shut its weight loss centers in May after 40 years. And Simply Good Foods, which distributes Atkins diet products like frozen meals and cookies, will market Atkins as "a perfect complement to people thinking about using the drugs," the company's chief executive at the time, Joe Scalzo, told analysts in June.
The ripple effects are widening. Retailers like Walmart, Kroger and Rite Aid say GLP-1 prescriptions are bringing more people into stores, where they make other purchases. Walmart's chief executive, Doug McMillon, told analysts in August that its executives "expect consumables, and health and wellness, primarily due to the popularity of some GLP-1 drugs, to grow as a percent of total."
Medtronic's chief executive, Geoff Martha, said the company had seen a "modest" dip in bariatric surgery, presumably as people opted for weight loss drugs instead. And some analysts believe the drugs could disrupt the American diet.
"If you're eating fast food every day, you'll probably continue to eat fast food every day," James van Geelen of Citrinas Capital Management said on Bloomberg's "Odd Lots" podcast. "You will just eat a lot less of it."
Still, there is room for other approaches to fighting obesity. "These drugs are game changers, but with an asterisk," said David Ludwig, an obesity specialist and pediatrics professor at Harvard Medical School. (The drugs come with a long list of side effects.) "Even if you can reduce weight across the population with drugs, it's not going to eliminate the risks of a poor diet."
Flush with cash, Novo agrees. "We need to be looking at what's the next thing," its executive vice president for commercial strategy Camilla Sylvest, told me. In June, the company launched an obesity prevention unit near Copenhagen, to research how to stop the disease before people need to take drugs to lose weight. -- Vivienne Walt
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
The U.S. labor market begins to look like its old self. Employers added 187,000 jobs in August, the Labor Department reported Friday, and unemployment rose to 3.8 percent as the economy continued to lose momentum built up after pandemic lockdowns.
Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo visits China. She had the tricky task of promoting trade between the two superpowers while holding firm on technology export limits imposed in the name of American national security. The two countries agreed to create new dialogues, including a working group for commercial issues.
The White House names the first drugs set for Medicare price negotiations. The long-awaited list of 10 medicines will be subject to a landmark new program meant to reduce costs for Medicare. Drugmakers have pushed back against the plan, including in court, and Republicans have criticized the initiative as government overreach.
UBS reports a $ 29 billion quarterly profit, with an asterisk. The huge gain -- the biggest in banking history -- stems from the bank's acquisition of its rival Credit Suisse this spring for about $ 3.2 billion, a steep discount that is skewing UBS's results. But it belies the challenges that UBS faces as it moves to complete the largest takeover of a bank since the 2008 financial crisis.
The last girl boss
When Emily Weiss stepped down last year as the chief executive of Glossier, the skin care and beauty brand she founded in 2014, some called it the end of the "girlboss." That archetype -- of media-savvy female founders with venture-darling, millennial-focused start-ups -- had been propelled by "#Girlboss," the Nasty Gal founder Sophia Amoruso's 2014 memoir.
Glossier, with its direct-to-consumer model and voice-y website, changed the way women buy makeup, eventually passing a $ 1 billion valuation. But the brand stumbled as it struggled to move into brick-and-mortar retail; faced criticism from retail employees who alleged a toxic, racist working environment; and shelved projects like a makeup line that departed from its dewy, barely-there look.
DealBook spoke to Marisa Meltzer, author of the upcoming book "Glossy: Ambition, Beauty, and the Inside Story of Emily Weiss's Glossier," about what lessons we might glean from Weiss and the #Girlboss movement.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
Can you contextualize the #Girlboss movement?
It was pretty offensive and diminutive. No one except for Sophia was calling themselves out as a girlboss. But it was also something that benefited them because it attracted interest. It was a way for them to get press about their businesses that wasn't the typical things that female founders and C.E.O.s sometimes had to do, like a fashion spread.
There was a big debate at the time over whether the press would have covered the scandals at companies like Outdoor Voices, Man Repeller and Glossier differently if they had men at the helm. What do you think?
I think there was a bit of a thirst for blood. These women had been propped up in a way that was kind of annoying -- I'm sure it was annoying to them, too.
Some of those companies had real problems, like being sued over firing pregnant employees. And other companies had, like Glossier, an accusation of having a workplace, largely for their retail employees, that wasn't ideal. That's different than criminal behavior.
The reality is these companies weren't the same. The women at their helms were not all the same. And they weren't making the same mistakes. And they also didn't have the same level of success.
What happens to Glossier now?
Glossier seems to have taken the time since Emily stepped down to re-evaluate. They decided to really belatedly go into retail. They launched in Sephora last February. The larger task that they're trying to do is make the company in better shape for an exit.
Who might buy them?
A company like Estée Lauder that owns a lot of boutique brands would make sense. There's also Kering, the fashion house that owns Gucci, which has been making some visible plays to get more into the beauty market.
On our radar: The story of Carlos Ghosn
In 2019, while facing criminal charges of financial wrongdoing, the former Nissan executive Carlos Ghosn skipped bail and fled Japan in an elaborate plot that involved a private jet and a trunk with breathing holes drilled into it. At the time, DealBook called it "a movie-level caper," and two projects -- one by the BBC and another by Netflix -- were quick to portray it on video. But neither did so as well as a four-part Apple TV+ documentary series that was released last week.
"Wanted: The Escape of Carlos Ghosn" is produced by The Wall Street Journal and is based on a book by two of its reporters. With Ghosn's participation, it tells the thriller-like drama of one of the most memorable business stories this decade while exploring its nuances.
"The series explicitly poses the question of Carlos Ghosn: victim or villain?" The Guardian's Adrian Horton writes. "With blurred lines, overlapping narratives and convoluted paper trails, it doesn't land on a simple answer."
Thanks for reading! We'll see you on Tuesday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph Retailers, the makers of foods marketed for weight loss, and other types of companies could see increasing effects from the rise of drugs like Ozempic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE FREY/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Gastrointestinal surgery; Womens health; Diabetes; FDA approval; Weight control; Employees; Executives; Obesity; Drugs; Retail stores; Fast food; Corporate profits; Medicare

Business indexing term: Subject: FDA approval Employees Executives Retail stores Corporate profits Medicare

Location: United States--US

People: Ghosn, Carlos

Company / organization: Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211; Name: UBS AG; NAICS: 522110, 523150, 523940

Title: Disruptive Power of Weight Loss Drugs Is Rippling Through Other Industries:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 4, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2860256010

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disruptive-power-weight-loss-drugs-is-rippling/docview/2860256010/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Revivalists: [SpecialSections]

Author: Archer, Sarah

Publication info: Archer, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/revivalists/docview/2860020978/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For a growing number of designers, dealers and collectors in their thirties, American antiques are hot.
This article is part of our Design special section about new interpretations of antique design styles.
Scroll through Erick J. Espinoza's Instagram feed, and you might think you've traveled back in time to the 1930s -- not the Art Deco version, but the version filled with hooked rugs, weathervanes and candlesticks betokening the era's American Colonial Revival, perhaps with the color saturation cranked way up.
"There's something so lighthearted about Americana. Even really serious and intense works of American folk art are still whimsical, graphic and humorous," said Mr. Espinoza, who is the 32-year-old creative director at the Hamptons design studio founded by Anthony Baratta. Mr. Espinoza especially loves the geometric patterns of game boards and quilts.
Mr. Espinoza's own house in Danbury, Conn., is a kaleidoscopic ode to a style he calls "Pop Art country." His equestrian-themed red, white and black bedroom is a particular tour de force.
For a growing number of designers, dealers and budding collectors in their thirties, Americana is back -- with a twist. Consider them the Bicentennial millennials.
In the mid-1970s, on the heels of Watergate and the war in Vietnam, American housewares manufacturers like Ethan Allen used the 1976 Bicentennial celebrations to unleash a wave of nouveau Colonial Revival designs. Overlapping as they did with that decade's craft mania, old-fashioned objects like spinning wheels, flags and eagle-themed wallpaper enjoyed an uncanny moment of cultural relevance.
Michael Diaz-Griffith, the executive director of the Design Leadership Network, a platform for interior designers and architects, said he has been anticipating a renewed interest in Bicentennial style for more than a decade.
A native of Alabama, Mr. Diaz-Griffith spent eight years working in various capacities at the Winter Show, an antiques, art and design fair held each January in Manhattan, cheering on people his age (he is now 36) who were falling in love with very old, very quirky objects even as postwar modernism seemed to be getting all the attention. In June, he published "The New Antiquarians: At Home with Young Collectors" (The Monacelli Press).
"Millennials aren't minimalists," he said.
In his book, Mr. Diaz-Griffith profiles lovers of Americana who have made their living spaces canvases for quirky dialogues with the past rather than pristinely accurate period rooms. He writes that the Brooklyn apartment belonging to Camille Okhio, a writer at Elle Decor magazine, is "a Pennsylvania barn ... airlifted to Lagos." Her collections are "as likely to draw upon refined Ngil masks, spare 17th-century ironwork, or elegant Shaker basketry as the International Style."
Audrey Gelman has also taken stock of the moment. The co-founder of the Wing, the now-defunct women's co-working space famous for its millennial pink walls and velvet-upholstered furniture, she currently runs a vintage and contemporary home goods boutique called the Six Bells in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
Ms. Gelman, 36, recalled that her grandfather often visited estate sales, bringing quantities of "primitive cows and wrought iron pig figurines" into her family's orbit when she was young. She said that for her clientele, including shoppers in their 20s with a taste for the simple life and teens intent on giving their college dorm rooms a pastoral spin, she wanted to create "a Venn diagram of Americana, English maximalism and Alpine Tyrolean style."
Ms. Gelman, who left the Wing as chief executive after some employees, including Black and brown members, complained of inequitable treatment -- an episode she declined to discuss -- thinks one reason for the renewed attraction to rustic Americana is technological. "For a generation younger than me, who grew up with omnipresent internet, this aesthetic represents greener pastures," she said. Each member of that generation believes, "I was born in the wrong era and I want to go home."
She added, "We've reached a saturation point with retail simulacra: Everything is a copy of a copy, and even things that started in Copenhagen are now at Wayfair." Americana, by contrast, is rooted in a time, place and culture.
Every design tells some kind of story, but American antiques -- from the mythmaking around Betsy Ross's flag at the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition in 1876 to Bicentennial bric-a-brac -- are particularly freighted with meaning, and that meaning is continually being remade, said Thomas Denenberg, the director of the Shelburne Museum in Vermont.
"The high point of the Colonial Revival is really about creating community and common values for a vastly heterogeneous nation, and that almost creates the operating system for suburban America," Mr. Denenberg said.
Community building is a facet of Americana that Mr. Espinoza takes very seriously. "I'm first-generation American; my parents are both from Central America," he said. "They moved here in the late 1980s and they had my sister and me in Miami. I think that lends itself to being proud to be here and celebrating that in a way, even today; I love everything that's American-made."
Politically liberal, he shrugs off the reticence that many other progressives feel about displaying Americana; he doesn't want to let someone else identify what American stands for. "I was born here. I have the utmost privilege to be an American," he said.
According to Mr. Diaz-Griffith, the "New Antiquarians" author, antiques have long been conservative symbols, "but they aren't necessarily that intrinsically."
Many younger people, he said, have shifted their attention to the people and methods behind old goods. "We're learning that a huge number of top furniture makers and upholsterers in America were Black men," he said. "This rewrites the history of this furniture, through the labor they were proud of, their workmanship, and how we conceive of the dignity and artistry of craftspeople generally."
In 2019, Tiffany Momon, an assistant professor of history at the University of the South, created an especially rich resource with the Black Craftspeople Digital Archive.
"The decorative arts world can be very old and white," Ms. Momon, 37, said, recalling that one year she was the only Black scholar at Colonial Williamsburg's annual Antiques Forum.
She also found that a pervasive emphasis on connoisseurship tended to eclipse the information she found most absorbing: "I was interested in the builders, the makers, the stories of people behind these nice-looking objects," she said. The Black Craftspeople Digital Archive was the resource she needed for her own research, but couldn't find.
As for Americana, flags and eagles interest her less than the more nuanced symbolism of Poynor chairs, she said. Born into slavery, Richard Poynor was a 19th-century Black furniture maker in Williamson County, Tenn., who purchased his freedom in the 1850s.
"He built the first horse-powered chair factory in Tennessee," Ms. Momon said. "It became a family business, and a way of acquiring money, living well, making a name for his family." Today, she thinks about what owning a Poynor chair "means for agency and Black liberation, and the lives of freed Black people before the Civil War.
And Poynor continues to inspire contemporary furniture makers. Robell Awake, a 38-year-old in Atlanta, creates modern takes on a ladder-back chair with which Mr. Poynor was associated.
Last year, after receiving a grant from the Center for Craft in Asheville, N.C., he deepened his study of the craftsman's life and work and discovered a resonance between Poynor's chairs and carved Jimma chairs made in the region of Ethiopia where Mr. Awake's parents were born.
Mr. Diaz-Griffith says he believes that millennials and Gen-Zers are increasingly drawn to American antiques because new scholarship about material culture has short-circuited the stuffiness so often associated with the field. Add to that a postmodern approach to mixing and matching historical periods and a strong sense of I-like-what-I-like, and you have a recipe for thinking Americana is fascinating, fun and ripe for personal meaning.
"Younger people have adopted a kind of historicist mind-set, talking about Tom Ford's Gucci like it's the 18th century -- it's a form of critical inquiry and identification," he said. "Maybe you're seeing photos of Colonial Williamsburg, and it's exciting. You're here, you're American, wanting to belong to something and to be woven into the story."
Photograph Above, Erick J. Espinoza in his equestrian-themed bedroom in Danbury, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN LANCASTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Robell Awake, a furniture maker in Atlanta, left, interprets 19th-century ladderback chairs. "The New Antiquarians: At Home with Young Collectors," below, features Camille Okhio, a design writer, bottom right. The Six Bells, bottom left, a boutique in Brooklyn sells items like quilts and candlesticks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DUSTIN CHAMBERS; LAUREN LANCASTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRIAN W. FERRY) This article appeared in print on page F4.

Subject: Design; Millennials; Furniture; Digital archives; Designers

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/31/style/millennials-antiques-bicentennial-design.html

Title: The Revivalists:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 3, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2860020978

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/revivalists/docview/2860020978/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Started Out With an Inbox Full of Questions: [Society Desk]

Author: Block, Jenny

Publication info: Block, Jenny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-started-out-with-inbox-full-questions/docview/2857512269/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jason Mercado and Kristen Bateman, who met 10 years ago, didn't begin dating until after three months of emailing. "I wanted to become friends first," Ms. Bateman, a self-described introvert, said.
When Jason Daniel Mercado first met Kristen Virginia Bateman in August 2013 at the HôM Store, a trinket shop that also serves brunch in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, he asked for her phone number. "I saw her and her purple hair and struck up a conversation," Mr. Mercado said. She had another idea: "Let's exchange emails instead."
"I'm an introvert even though I have to talk to a lot of people for work," Ms. Bateman said.
Mr. Mercado emailed her the next day. "We started a lengthy discourse," he said. "We hashed out questions and got to know one other."
They spent three months emailing before meeting again in person. "I wanted to become friends first," Ms. Bateman said.
Their first date was in mid-November 2013 at the same place where they met. "What we knew for sure was that they had pumpkin pancakes and that it felt like a place we'd both enjoy," Mr. Mercado said.
But even after they started dating, they continued to email regularly. "Things that she wasn't comfortable asking in person, she asked in email," Mr. Mercado said. "Like, after going to MoMA on our second date, she emailed and asked, 'Why didn't you hold my hand?"'
But it wasn't long after that second date that the two became official. On New Year's Eve 2013, "I said I love you for the first time," Mr. Mercado said.
In 2014, they spent a lot of time traveling together, visiting Montreal, London, Stockholm, and Paris. And over the years, they visited even more countries in Europe and Asia on vacations and work trips.
Ms. Bateman, 30, is a fashion writer and author of the recently published "Little Book of New York Style." She also works as a consultant for beauty and fashion brands, and she designs and sells jewelry for her brand Dollchunk.
She has dual bachelor's degree in liberal arts and design from the Eugene Lang College of Liberal Arts and the Parsons School of Design through the New School.
Mr. Mercado, 39, is a director at Citigroup, specializing in funding and liquidity management. He has a bachelor's degree in finance from Baruch College.
Inspired by their love of travel and the date when they became official, Mr. Mercado proposed on New Year's Eve 2020 on a trip to Niagara Falls. "Since it was during the pandemic, we couldn't even go to the Canadian side," Mr. Mercado said. Still, he wanted somewhere nice to surprise Ms. Bateman.
"I got down on one knee in the ice and asked for Kristen's hand in marriage as the clock struck midnight," Mr. Mercado said.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
One year later, Ms. Bateman briefly lost her engagement ring in the snow at the Storm King Art Center, a 500-acre outdoor museum in New Windsor, N.Y., when she fell in the snow. It was found by an employee after an exhaustive search and hours of the couple and staff members digging in the snow.
The couple were married on Aug. 12 by Annie Lawrence, an interfaith minister who is ordained by the New Seminary, at the Ladies Pavilion in Central Park. "A couple of people riding bikes shouted out to congratulate us," Ms. Bateman said. "It felt very much like a New York City moment."
Ms. Bateman's mother and Mr. Mercado's mother and sister were the only guests. "We wanted it to feel like an elopement," Ms. Bateman said. "We consider it, combined with our reverse honeymoon in France, a two-part elopement."
In early July, the two had traveled to the Brittany region of France to have a symbolic elopement. Ms. Bateman said, "I wore two very extreme dresses from the designer Noir Kei Ninomiya's runway collections and an equally extreme Simone Rocha veil."
For the wedding in New York, Ms. Bateman wore a Noir Kei Ninomiya dress in black with 3-D pink roses. Underneath the Noir Kei Ninomiya dress, she layered a silver Simone Rocha mini dress with puff sleeves and carried a Gucci anatomical heart bag covered in rose-colored crystals with her vows stored inside. "When it was time to say my vows, I took the paper out and handed the heart bag to Jason, representing giving him my heart," she said.
During their ceremony, the officiant quoted Dr. Seuss: "We're all a little weird, and life's a little weird," Ms. Lawrence said. "And when we find someone whose weirdness is compatible with ours, we join up with them and fall in mutual weirdness and call it love."
Afterward, they all took a yellow cab to the Empire Hotel on the Upper West Side for the cake, designed by Yip.Studio, to match Ms. Bateman's ceremony dress. They then headed downtown for lunch at Blue Ribbon Sushi Izakaya, where Ms. Bateman wore a red Comme des Garçons dress and a Miu Miu tiara.
Ms. Bateman said everything about their elopement-style union was all about "breaking and questioning tradition."
Photograph Kristen Bateman, Jason Mercado (PHOTOGRAPH BY SELEEN SALEH) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Design; Taxicabs

Location: New York; United States--US; France

People: Rocha, Simone

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/25/style/kristen-bateman-jason-mercado-wedding.html

Title: They Started Out With an Inbox Full of Questions:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857512269

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-started-out-with-inbox-full-questions/docview/2857512269/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump Adds Heavy Hitter To Legal Team in Georgia: [National Desk]

Author: Fausset, Richard; Haberman, Maggie; Hakim, Danny

Publication info: Fausset, Richard; Haberman, Maggie; Hakim, Danny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-adds-heavy-hitter-legal-team-georgia/docview/2856692173/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Trump is hiring Steve Sadow, a veteran criminal defense lawyer in Atlanta who has taken on a number of high-profile cases.
Just before his visit to an Atlanta jail to be booked on 13 felony counts, Donald J. Trump has shaken up his Georgia legal defense team, adding Steve Sadow, a veteran criminal defense lawyer who has taken on a number of high-profile cases.
Mr. Sadow filed a document with the court on Thursday stating that he was now "lead counsel of record for Donald John Trump."
Mr. Trump's decision comes soon after one of his lawyers, Drew Findling, and his two other lawyers in the Georgia case, Jennifer Little and Marissa Goldberg, negotiated a $ 200,000 bond for Mr. Trump, who is one of 19 defendants in a sweeping racketeering indictment charging them with engaging in a "criminal enterprise" that sought to overturn Mr. Trump's 2020 election loss in Georgia.
Mr. Findling is expected to be let go, according to a person familiar with the matter, while Ms. Little will be retained.
Mr. Trump, who is often dissatisfied with lawyers he hires, had been inquiring for several days about who else he could bring in, according to a person familiar with the discussions who was not authorized to speak publicly. Mr. Trump's main concern, according to the person, was that he wanted a more "sophisticated" team.
Mr. Sadow said in a statement that Mr. Trump "should never have been indicted," adding, "He is innocent of all the charges brought against him."
"Prosecutions intended to advance or serve the ambitions and careers of political opponents of the president have no place in our justice system," he said.
The shake-up was first reported by ABC News.
Mr. Trump is expected to surrender on Thursday at the Fulton County Jail in Atlanta, where he is likely to be fingerprinted and photographed, as is usually done with all criminal defendants in the county. Supporters of Mr. Trump began arriving outside the jail early in the morning; by 9:30 a.m., dozens of people were there, carrying signs and shouting slogans.
Rick Hearn, 44, an Atlanta accountant, displayed a poster with an image of Mr. Trump next to one of Nelson Mandela, with the title "political prisoners."
"I feel like I needed to be a part of this," Mr. Hearn said, adding that "those in charge" need to know that they could not "take away our rights and get away with it."
The Georgia indictment, released last week, is the fourth criminal case against Mr. Trump to be filed this year. It targets not just him, but also an array of his allies, who are accused of engaging in election interference after the November 2020 vote. The defendants include Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump's former lawyer, and Mark Meadows, Mr. Trump's former White House chief of staff.
As of Thursday afternoon, more than half of the 19 defendants had been booked at the jail, including Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Meadows, and a cascade of legal maneuvering was underway. Three defendants are seeking to remove their cases to federal court: Mr. Meadows; Jeffrey Clark, a former Justice Department official; and David Shafer, a former head of the Georgia Republican Party.
Another defendant, Kenneth Chesebro, filed a speedy-trial demand on Wednesday, which under Georgia law would require the trial for all 19 defendants to begin by Nov. 3 -- months earlier than prosecutors had sought.
On Thursday, the Fulton County district attorney, Fani T. Willis, filed a motion requesting that the trial start "for all 19 defendants" on Oct. 23. Mr. Trump then filed a response opposing the October trial date and noting that he would seek to sever his case from Mr. Chesebro's and that of any other defendant who seeks a speedy trial.
On Thursday afternoon, the presiding judge, Scott McAfee, approved the speedy-trial request, though he made clear that the new trial date applied only to Mr. Chesebro.
Still, given all the pretrial wrangling that must be resolved, the ultimate timing of a trial or trials remains up in the air.
Ms. Willis's office has also requested that arraignments take place in the week of Sept. 5. Defendants have the right to waive appearing at an arraignment, where defendants answer the charges against them.
On Thursday, Ms. Willis's office subpoenaed the Georgia secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, and a former chief investigator in Mr. Raffensperger's office, Frances Watson, to testify on Monday in connection with Mr. Meadows's effort to move the case to federal court.
Mr. Trump often abruptly reconfigures his legal team, and has cycled through scores of lawyers over his decades as a businessman and in his more recent political career. He has sometimes been known to refuse to pay lawyers for their work.
The lawyers working for him in connection with the four criminal cases are being paid, but not with Mr. Trump's personal funds; instead, he is using money donated by his supporters in the wake of the 2020 election, after he said he needed help to pursue claims of widespread voting fraud -- claims that were widely debunked.
A number of lawyers working on Mr. Trump's behalf have faced their own legal troubles recently, especially regarding the indictment in Georgia.
Mr. Sadow is widely seen in Atlanta legal circles as one of the city's most talented criminal defense lawyers. Like Mr. Findling, Mr. Sadow has represented rap clients, including T.I. and Rick Ross, and the singer Usher.
Mr. Sadow represented the rapper Gunna, whose real name is Sergio Kitchens, in a high-profile case in Fulton County. Mr. Kitchens pleaded guilty in December to a racketeering charge in the sprawling case against Young Slime Life, or YSL, an Atlanta hip-hop collective. He was released after his initial five-year sentence was commuted to time served, with the remainder suspended.
More than two decades ago, Mr. Sadow was a fixture in news reports about a scandal involving an Atlanta strip club called the Gold Club, which, according to federal prosecutors, had ties to the Gambino crime family of New York and was a den of prostitution and grift. Mr. Sadow represented the club's owner, Steven E. Kaplan, who pleaded guilty to a racketeering charge, an outcome Mr. Sadow called "a very good deal for all concerned."
When Mr. Trump chose Mr. Findling last summer to head his Georgia legal defense team, the choice fit with Mr. Trump's pop-culture ties and his affinity for oversize personalities. Mr. Findling, who is often photographed wearing stylish sunglasses, refers to himself as the #BillionDollarLawyer on Instagram, and has represented rappers including Cardi B, Gucci Mane and Migos.
Before he was hired, Mr. Findling had sharply criticized Mr. Trump numerous times on social media. In 2018, he referred to Mr. Trump as "the racist architect of fraudulent Trump University."
But once he was hired, Mr. Findling mounted a vigorous defense of Mr. Trump. Before the former president's indictment last week, Mr. Findling and his team sought to throw out evidence collected by a special grand jury, and to have Ms. Willis taken off the case.
His strategy was seen by many legal observers as aggressive but worth attempting, though it wore on the patience of the presiding judge and ultimately proved futile.
Like Mr. Findling, Mr. Sadow has publicly expressed misgivings about Mr. Trump. On the way to taking a swipe at the former F.B.I. director James Comey in one 2017 exchange on Twitter, Mr. Sadow made a point of noting that he was "not a DT supporter."
Sean Keenan and Christian Boone contributed reporting.
Sean Keenan and Christian Boone contributed reporting.
Photograph Steven H. Sadow is seen in Atlanta legal circles as one of the city's most talented criminal defense lawyers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Drew Findling, right, who had been the lead Trump attorney in the Georgia case, with another Trump lawyer, Marissa Goldberg. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Indictments; Prisons; Legal defense; Attorneys; Scandals; Trials; Racketeering; Public prosecutors

Location: United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/24/us/trump-georgia-lawyers.html

Title: Trump Adds Heavy Hitter To Legal Team in Georgia:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 25, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2856692173

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-adds-heavy-hitter-legal-team-georgia/docview/2856692173/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump Shakes Up His Georgia Legal Team Ahead of Atlanta Booking

Author: Fausset, Richard; Haberman, Maggie; Hakim, Danny

Publication info: Fausset, Richard; Haberman, Maggie; Hakim, Danny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-shakes-up-his-georgia-legal-team-ahead/docview/2856624397/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Just before his visit to an Atlanta jail to be booked on 13 felony counts, Donald Trump has shaken up his Georgia legal defense team, adding Steve Sadow, a veteran criminal defense lawyer who has taken on a number of high-profile cases.
Sadow filed a document with the court Thursday stating that he was now “lead counsel of record for Donald John Trump.”
Trump’s decision comes soon after one of his lawyers, Drew Findling, and his two other lawyers in the Georgia case, Jennifer Little and Marissa Goldberg, negotiated a $200,000 bond for Trump, who is one of 19 defendants in a sweeping racketeering indictment charging them with engaging in a “criminal enterprise” that sought to overturn Trump’s 2020 election loss in Georgia.
Findling is expected to be let go, according to a person familiar with the matter, while Little will be retained.
Trump, who is often dissatisfied with lawyers he hires, had been inquiring for several days about who else he could bring in, according to a person familiar with the discussions who was not authorized to speak publicly. Trump’s main concern, according to the person, was that he wanted a more “sophisticated” team.
Sadow said in a statement that Trump “should never have been indicted,” adding, “He is innocent of all the charges brought against him.”
“Prosecutions intended to advance or serve the ambitions and careers of political opponents of the president have no place in our justice system,” he said.
The shake-up was first reported by ABC News.
Trump surrendered Thursday at the Fulton County Jail in Atlanta, where he was fingerprinted and photographed, as is usually done with all criminal defendants in the county.
Supporters of Trump began arriving outside the jail early in the morning; by 9:30 a.m., dozens of people were there, carrying signs and shouting slogans.
Rick Hearn, 44, an Atlanta accountant, displayed a poster with an image of Trump next to one of Nelson Mandela, with the title “political prisoners.”
“I feel like I needed to be a part of this,” Hearn said, adding that “those in charge” need to know that they could not “take away our rights and get away with it.”
The Georgia indictment, released last week, is the fourth criminal case against Trump to be filed this year. It targets not just him but also an array of his allies, who are accused of engaging in election interference after the November 2020 vote. The defendants include Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s former lawyer, and Mark Meadows, Trump’s former White House chief of staff.
As of Thursday afternoon, nearly half of the 19 defendants had been booked at the jail, including Giuliani and Meadows, and a cascade of legal maneuvering was underway. Three defendants are seeking to remove their cases to federal court: Meadows; Jeffrey Clark, a former Justice Department official; and David Shafer, a former head of the Georgia Republican Party.
Another defendant, Kenneth Chesebro, filed a speedy-trial demand Wednesday, which under Georgia law would require the trial for all 19 defendants to begin by Nov. 3 — months earlier than prosecutors had sought.
On Thursday, the Fulton County district attorney, Fani T. Willis, filed a motion requesting that the trial start “for all 19 defendants” on Oct. 23. Trump then filed a response opposing the October trial date and noting that he would seek to sever his case from Chesebro’s and that of any other defendant who seeks a speedy trial.
On Thursday afternoon, the presiding judge, Scott McAfee, approved the speedy-trial request, though he made clear that the new trial date applied only to Chesebro.
Still, given all the pretrial wrangling that must be resolved, the ultimate timing of a trial or trials remains up in the air.
Willis’ office has also requested that arraignments take place in the week of Sept. 5. Defendants have the right to waive appearing at an arraignment, where defendants answer the charges against them.
On Thursday, Willis’ office subpoenaed the Georgia secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, and a former chief investigator in Raffensperger’s office, Frances Watson, to testify Monday in connection with Meadows’ effort to move the case to federal court.
Trump often abruptly reconfigures his legal team, and has cycled through scores of lawyers over his decades as a businessman and in his more recent political career. He has sometimes been known to refuse to pay lawyers for their work.
The lawyers working for him in connection with the four criminal cases are being paid, but not with Trump’s personal funds; instead, he is using money donated by his supporters in the wake of the 2020 election, after he said he needed help to pursue claims of widespread voting fraud — claims that were widely debunked.
A number of lawyers working on Trump’s behalf have faced their own legal troubles recently, especially regarding the indictment in Georgia.
Sadow is widely seen in Atlanta legal circles as one of the city’s most talented criminal defense lawyers. Like Findling, Sadow has represented rap clients, including T.I. and Rick Ross, and the singer Usher.
Sadow represented the rapper Gunna, whose real name is Sergio Kitchens, in a high-profile case in Fulton County. Kitchens pleaded guilty in December to a racketeering charge in the sprawling case against Young Slime Life, or YSL, an Atlanta hip-hop collective. He was released after his initial five-year sentence was commuted to time served, with the remainder suspended.
More than two decades ago, Sadow was a fixture in news reports about a scandal involving an Atlanta strip club called the Gold Club, which, according to federal prosecutors, had ties to the Gambino crime family of New York and was a den of prostitution and grift. Sadow represented the club’s owner, Steven E. Kaplan, who pleaded guilty to a racketeering charge, an outcome Sadow called “a very good deal for all concerned.”
When Trump chose Findling last summer to head his Georgia legal defense team, the choice fit with Trump’s pop-culture ties and his affinity for oversized personalities. Findling, who is often photographed wearing stylish sunglasses, refers to himself as the #BillionDollarLawyer on Instagram, and has represented rappers including Cardi B, Gucci Mane and Offset of Migos.
Before he was hired, Findling had sharply criticized Trump numerous times on social media. In 2018, he referred to Trump as “the racist architect of fraudulent Trump University.”
But once he was hired, Findling mounted a vigorous defense of Trump. Before the former president’s indictment last week, Findling and his team sought to throw out evidence collected by a special grand jury and to have Willis taken off the case.
His strategy was seen by many legal observers as aggressive but worth attempting, though it wore on the patience of the presiding judge and ultimately proved futile.
Like Findling, Sadow has publicly expressed misgivings about Trump. On the way to taking a swipe at former FBI director James Comey in one 2017 exchange on Twitter, Sadow made a point of noting that he was “not a DT supporter.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Attorneys; Trials; Racketeering; Public prosecutors; Indictments; Political campaigns; Prisons; Legal defense; Scandals

Location: New York; United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Suits And Litigation ( Civil); Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); Political Prisoners; Real Estate (Commercial); Collectors And Collections; Republican Party; Meadows, Mark R (1959 ); Willis, Fani T; Colleges And Universities; University Of Georgia; Abc News; Smith, Anna Nicole; Migos (Music Group); Ti (1980 ); New York State Criminal Case Against Trump (71543 23); Prisons And Prisoners; Cardi B (1992 ); Organized Crime; Fulton County (Ga); Justice Department; Gangs; Georgia; Presidential Election Of 2020; Shafer, David J (1965 ); Gambino Crime Family; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Ex Convicts; Rap And Hip Hop; Mandela, Nelson; Offset (Rapper); Hiring And Promotion; Gucci Mane (1980 ); Project Democracy; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Trump University; Presidential Election Of 2024; Racketeering And Racketeers; Decisions And Verdicts; Comey, James B; United States Politics And Government; Young Slime Life (Ysl); Clark, Jeffrey B (1967 ); Frauds And Swindling; Legal Profession; Hakim, Danny; Twitter; Amnesties, Commutations And Pardons; Atlanta (Ga); Williams, Jeffery Lamar (Young Thug); Trump, Donald J; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Usher; Raffensperger, Brad; Gunna (Rapper); Georgia Criminal Case Against Trump (2020 Election); Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Findling, Drew; Ross, Rick (1976 ); Campaign Finance; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Trump Shakes Up His Georgia Legal Team Ahead of Atlanta Booking

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-25T02:03:22Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2856624397

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-shakes-up-his-georgia-legal-team-ahead/docview/2856624397/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump Shakes Up His Georgia Legal Team Ahead of Atlanta Booking

Author: Fausset, Richard; Haberman, Maggie; Hakim, Danny

Publication info: Fausset, Richard; Haberman, Maggie; Hakim, Danny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-shakes-up-his-georgia-legal-team-ahead/docview/2856530730/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Just before his visit to an Atlanta jail to be booked on 13 felony counts, Donald Trump has shaken up his Georgia legal defense team, adding Steve Sadow, a veteran criminal defense lawyer who has taken on a number of high-profile cases.
Sadow filed a document with the court on Thursday stating that he was now “lead counsel of record for Donald John Trump.”
Trump’s decision comes soon after one of his lawyers, Drew Findling, and his two other lawyers in the Georgia case, Jennifer Little and Marissa Goldberg, negotiated a $200,000 bond for Trump, who is one of 19 defendants in a sweeping racketeering indictment charging them with engaging in a “criminal enterprise” that sought to overturn Trump’s 2020 election loss in Georgia.
Findling is expected to be let go, according to a person familiar with the matter, while Little will be retained.
Trump, who is often dissatisfied with lawyers he hires, had been inquiring for several days about who else he could bring in, according to a person familiar with the discussions who was not authorized to speak publicly. Trump’s main concern, according to the person, was that he wanted a more “sophisticated” team.
Sadow said in a statement that Trump “should never have been indicted,” adding, “He is innocent of all the charges brought against him.”
“Prosecutions intended to advance or serve the ambitions and careers of political opponents of the president have no place in our justice system,” he said.
The shake-up was first reported by ABC News.
Trump is expected to surrender on Thursday at the Fulton County Jail in Atlanta, where he is likely to be fingerprinted and photographed, as is usually done with all criminal defendants in the county.
Supporters of Trump began arriving outside the jail early in the morning; by 9:30 a.m., dozens of people were there, carrying signs and shouting slogans.
Rick Hearn, 44, an Atlanta accountant, displayed a poster with an image of Trump next to one of Nelson Mandela, with the title “political prisoners.”
“I feel like I needed to be a part of this,” Hearn said, adding that “those in charge” need to know that they could not “take away our rights and get away with it.”
The Georgia indictment, released last week, is the fourth criminal case against Trump to be filed this year. It targets not just him, but also an array of his allies, who are accused of engaging in election interference after the November 2020 vote. The defendants include Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s former lawyer, and Mark Meadows, Trump’s former White House chief of staff.
As of Thursday morning, nearly half of the 19 defendants had been booked at the jail, and a cascade of legal maneuvering was underway. Three defendants are seeking to remove their cases to federal court: Meadows; Jeffrey Clark, a former Justice Department official; and David Shafer, a former head of the Georgia Republican Party.
Another defendant, Kenneth Chesebro, filed a speedy-trial demand on Wednesday, which under Georgia law would require the trial for all 19 defendants to begin by Nov. 3 — months earlier than prosecutors had sought.
Given all the pretrial wrangling that must be resolved, the ultimate timing of a trial or trials remains up in the air.
The office of the Fulton County district attorney, Fani T. Willis, is prosecuting the case. Her office has requested that arraignments take place in the week of Sept. 5. Defendants have the right to waive appearing at an arraignment, where defendants answer the charges against them.
On Thursday, Willis’ office subpoenaed the Georgia secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, and a former chief investigator in Raffensperger’s office, Frances Watson, to testify on Monday in connection with Meadows’ effort to move the case to federal court.
Trump often abruptly reconfigures his legal team, and has cycled through scores of lawyers over his decades as a businessman and in his more recent political career. He has sometimes been known to refuse to pay lawyers for their work.
The lawyers working for him in connection with the four criminal cases are being paid, but not with Trump’s personal funds; instead, he is using money donated by his supporters in the wake of the 2020 election, after he said he needed help to pursue claims of widespread voting fraud — claims that were widely debunked.
A number of lawyers working on Trump’s behalf have faced their own legal troubles recently, especially regarding the indictment in Georgia.
Sadow is widely seen in Atlanta legal circles as one of the city’s most talented criminal defense lawyers. Like Findling, Sadow has represented rap clients, including T.I., Rick Ross and the singer Usher.
Sadow represented the rapper Gunna, whose real name is Sergio Kitchens, in a high-profile case in Fulton County. Kitchens pleaded guilty in December to a racketeering charge in the sprawling case against Young Slime Life, or YSL, an Atlanta hip-hop collective. He was released after his initial five-year sentence was commuted to time served, with the remainder suspended.
More than two decades ago, Sadow was a fixture in news reports about a scandal involving an Atlanta strip club called the Gold Club, which, according to federal prosecutors, had ties to the Gambino crime family of New York and was a den of prostitution and grift. Sadow represented the club’s owner, Steven E. Kaplan, who pleaded guilty to a racketeering charge, an outcome Sadow called “a very good deal for all concerned.”
When Trump chose Findling last summer to head his Georgia legal defense team, the choice fit with Trump’s pop-culture ties and his affinity for oversized personalities. Findling, who is often photographed wearing stylish sunglasses, refers to himself as the #BillionDollarLawyer on Instagram, and has represented rappers including Cardi B, Gucci Mane and Offset of Migos.
Before he was hired, Findling had sharply criticized Trump numerous times on social media. In 2018, he referred to Trump as “the racist architect of fraudulent Trump University.”
But once he was hired, Findling mounted a vigorous defense of Trump. Before the former president’s indictment last week, Findling and his team sought to throw out evidence collected by a special grand jury, and to have Willis taken off the case.
His strategy was seen by many legal observers as aggressive but worth attempting, though it wore on the patience of the presiding judge and ultimately proved futile.
Like Findling, Sadow has publicly expressed misgivings about Trump. On the way to taking a swipe at the former FBI director James Comey in one 2017 exchange on Twitter, Sadow made a point of noting that he was “not a DT supporter.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Attorneys; Trials; Racketeering; Public prosecutors; Indictments; Political campaigns; Prisons; Legal defense; Scandals

Location: New York; United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Suits And Litigation ( Civil); Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); Political Prisoners; Real Estate (Commercial); Collectors And Collections; Republican Party; Meadows, Mark R (1959 ); Willis, Fani T; Colleges And Universities; University Of Georgia; Abc News; Smith, Anna Nicole; Migos (Music Group); Ti (1980 ); New York State Criminal Case Against Trump (71543 23); Prisons And Prisoners; Cardi B (1992 ); Organized Crime; Fulton County (Ga); Justice Department; Gangs; Georgia; Presidential Election Of 2020; Shafer, David J (1965 ); Gambino Crime Family; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Ex Convicts; Rap And Hip Hop; Mandela, Nelson; Offset (Rapper); Hiring And Promotion; Gucci Mane (1980 ); Project Democracy; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Trump University; Presidential Election Of 2024; Racketeering And Racketeers; Decisions And Verdicts; Comey, James B; United States Politics And Government; Young Slime Life (Ysl); Clark, Jeffrey B (1967 ); Frauds And Swindling; Legal Profession; Hakim, Danny; Twitter; Amnesties, Commutations And Pardons; Atlanta (Ga); Williams, Jeffery Lamar (Young Thug); Trump, Donald J; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Usher; Raffensperger, Brad; Gunna (Rapper); Georgia Criminal Case Against Trump (2020 Election); Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Findling, Drew; Ross, Rick (1976 ); Campaign Finance; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Trump Shakes Up His Georgia Legal Team Ahead of Atlanta Booking

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-24T21:44:41Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2856530730

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-shakes-up-his-georgia-legal-team-ahead/docview/2856530730/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Long Game: [TStyle]

Author: Soller, Kurt; Rodriguez, Luis Alberto; Nazario, Carlos

Publication info: Soller, Kurt; Rodriguez, Luis Alberto; Nazario, Carlos. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/long-game/docview/2853182282/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Though the singer has maintained a strict line between her music and her private life, she's leveraging her personal passions in a bid to become a media mogul.
LET'S GET THIS out of the way: Dua Lipa is finishing her third album. It's due for release in 2024 and, despite the trend of musicians announcing and delaying records for years, Lipa will almost certainly meet her deadline. It's funny to think of a pop star -- or any successful young artist -- as just another striving professional. But at 27, Lipa has already become the kind of multihyphenate entrepreneur who not only finishes her assignments on time but discusses strategy and efficiency with the clarity of a company founder delivering a TED Talk. "If I wasn't as organized as I am, I would be a mess right now," she says when we meet one drizzly May afternoon in London. The singer had asked one of her favorite restaurants, Sushi on Jones, hidden on the second floor of a King's Cross concert venue, to open before dinner so we could have the place to ourselves, then arrived 10 minutes early to make sure everything was as planned.
A lot happened in March 2020, so you probably won't recall that Lipa's second album, "Future Nostalgia," leaked at the beginning of the lockdowns, denying her the precise rollout she'd spent many months finessing, postponing her international tour . . . and unintentionally cementing her as the leading pop star of the pandemic. Her barrage of shimmery singles -- music for "dance crying," as she describes it -- later established her as the only female artist with two albums that have surpassed 10 billion streams on Spotify.
The next record will still be pop, she says, lest her "fans have a meltdown." She doesn't want to "alienate" them, although she's developing a new sound that may be informed less by the house and disco beats beneath songs like "Physical" and "Hallucinate" than by 1970s-era psychedelia. She's working with a smaller group of songwriting collaborators, supposedly including Kevin Parker of the Australian psych-rock band Tame Impala, a rumor she all but confirms by denying: "I don't know what you're talking about," she says, then looks away and laughs a little. Lipa's dressed -- almost studiously -- in pop star-off-duty drag: Ugg slip-ons, baggy white jeans, an old Elton John T-shirt, a few diamond-encrusted hoops in each ear.
She can come across as guarded, a little aloof, cool but not necessarily cold, which could be the way she's been her whole life -- or the result of having become globally famous during a period of deep isolation. She lacks the impulse, so common among people her age, to make unnecessary small talk or feign friendliness in order to appear likable. Instead, she remains assiduously on message, implying several times that she feels that journalists are usually trying to trap her or tease out information before she's ready to share it. "Especially being in the public eye, someone's always waiting for you to trip or fail or whatever," she tells me. During our meal, which was arranged to last 90 minutes and ends exactly on time, "whatever" is one of the words she uses most, in a way that makes her sound wary of having to narrativize her own life.
But she's particularly taciturn about the forthcoming album because it's still in development -- a process that's "insular and exciting," she says, even if "you have no idea what the reaction is going to be once it's out, so there's this nervous feeling" -- but also because there's so much else she prepared to discuss today: not herself, not the music, but the other elements comprising Lipa's unusual plan for longevity, something she's been working toward since she was 5, when she used to lead her classmates in schoolyard dance routines.
AFTER HER TOUR concluded last November, Lipa arrived in London and began focusing on several non-music projects, as well as cooking and relaxing in the house she's renovating in North London, near where she was raised by a pair of Albanian immigrants, Dukagjin and Anesa Lipa. They'd fled Kosovo in 1992, during the conflicts in the region, then eventually returned to Pristina, the capital; four years after that, they let their eldest daughter (Dua, whose name means "love" in Albanian) move back to England by herself when she was 15, where she briefly modeled and began to pursue music: Two years later, after appearing in a 2013 commercial for "The X Factor," she signed with Ben Mawson, Lana Del Rey's manager.
Here in London -- where her parents, younger brother (Gjin, 17) and sister (Rina, 22, an up-and-coming model) also live again -- she enjoys eating vegetable samosas at Gymkhana and drinking orange wine at Westerns Laundry. Among her friends, who predate her fame and, she says, "ignore me in my own kitchen," she's the one who plans birthday dinners and trips. Many of these restaurants and destinations end up in Service95, the arts and culture newsletter she launched in February of last year after wanting a place to write about the bakeries, bookstores and other venues she'd been keeping lists of since she was a teenager.
On the Covers
She's currently recording a third season of her podcast, "Dua Lipa: At Your Service," an accompaniment to Service95, for which Lipa interviews fellow artists like the singer Billie Eilish and the actor Dan Levy; queer activists like Brandon Wolf, who fights for gun reform after having survived the 2016 shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla.; and writers like Min Jin Lee and Esther Perel (as well as Hanya Yanagihara, this magazine's editor in chief). She finishes each conversation by asking for a list of recommendations, whether that's Los Angeles restaurants (Levy) or activists to follow (Wolf); her hope, she says, is to be of service to her readers and listeners, many of whom were likely born around 1995, when she was, hence the name. Earlier this summer, she created a Service95 book club; Douglas Stuart's "Shuggie Bain" (2020), a gay coming-of-age story set in working-class Glasgow, was her first pick. Lipa also released a fashion collection that she co-designed with Donatella Versace, full of butterfly-print bikinis and floral stretch dresses. Its theme was La Vacanza, Italian for "vacation," mirroring Lipa's dominant, if slightly ironic, aesthetic on Instagram, where it looks like all she ever does is relax by a pool.
Not long after, she'd appear as a mermaid in Greta Gerwig's "Barbie," a fitting acting debut, given that it's based on a doll who's a former teenage fashion model and, in a single afternoon, bounces between her many demanding professions. "I don't even want to show you my phone, because I'm embarrassed about it, but it's really down to the minute: where I'm going, what I'm doing," Lipa tells me, then opens her calendar app, frowns and eventually turns the screen in my direction. "Wake up, glam, prep for podcast," she says, scrolling through a day of appointments. "I have to watch 'Succession,' so I've got to schedule that," she adds, pointing at the 7 p.m. slot, which is also when she'll eat dinner. She even plans her showers, wherever she can fit them in. "For as long as I'm having fun, I'm going to keep making music," she says. "But why can't I do other things that I love, too?"
IF THE DREAM of pop stardom is far-fetched for all but a few, the musical aspect of Lipa's empire is, oddly, the least unique thing about it: With her husky voice and relatably imperfect dance moves, she releases catchy, inspirational who-needs-men anthems in collaboration with some of the world's greatest audio minds and businesspeople. All of them have chosen to put millions of dollars into manufacturing and promoting her earwormy singles not only because she's talented and beautiful and has good sonic instincts but also because she is -- unlike most of her predecessors and peers -- admittedly, almost defiantly, not sloppy. "I've probably spent more time waiting for artists to show up in the studio than I have working with artists," says Mark Ronson, the 47-year-old record producer who has made two singles with Lipa, including "Dance the Night" from this summer. "If she's two minutes late -- literally, if it's 12:02 -- there's a text: 'Sorry, running five minutes late.' That's not superstar behavior, you know? She still works with the mind-set that she hasn't [made it] yet." Lipa's particularly good at editing, he adds, at tediously working and reworking a chorus or melody. She's comfortable making decisions quickly and multitasking: Sometimes while she's onstage doing her choreography, she says, she's also thinking about what she's going to eat afterward.
Pop, like all genres of creative expression, is more commercialized than ever. The musicians themselves are making less and less money, and those who grew up listening to artists like Britney Spears, Whitney Houston and Amy Winehouse (whom Lipa's soulful raspiness sometimes summons) have clearly internalized the tragic lessons of those lives and careers. As women in a field driven by sex appeal -- it's no accident that Lipa announced her book club with some swimsuit selfies -- they learn early on that people are constantly trying to use them. The smart ones, then, become alert to opportunities to diversify their portfolios and work their way to a kind of moguldom that outlasts radio trends. They grapple with the fact that popular music is a cat-and-mouse game, in which singers must switch up their sound often (while never straying too far from their original persona); refrain from releasing records too frequently so that their fans don't get bored; and yet recognize, even then, that the audience and the industry might still discard them once they're in their 30s.
Rihanna, who hasn't released an album since 2016, has her multibillion-dollar Fenty Beauty line; Ariana Grande will soon star as Glinda in Universal's "Wicked" juggernaut. Lipa, who has filed trademarks for merchandise including cosmetics and will appear next year in the spy film "Argylle," has made inroads in both of those directions; watching her and her cohorts' shared trajectory, you get the sense that they're expanding into other realms as early and as widely as they can, in part to guarantee their ubiquity but also to ensure against obsolescence. But with her multipronged pursuits (most of which fall under the banner of Service95, "the ultimate cultural concierge," according to its tag line), Lipa's approach is distinct in that she's leading with ideas and information, not products, curating culture in addition to contributing to it. What began as a minimally designed newsletter created with a few former magazine editors -- the issues are free and the first one featured short pieces about South African house music and the Irish disability advocate and writer Sinéad Burke -- has since grown to accommodate YouTube cooking videos, live book talks with authors (hosted by Lipa) and reported series dedicated to such topics as men's mental health and the spiking crisis in London, where young people are unknowingly being drugged by strangers at bars.
Service95 represents who Lipa is "behind closed doors," she says, a space where discussions around trans liberation are as common as those about jewelry and yoga. Though she's a young, ambitious millennial, the content reflects the very Gen Z belief that all art and culture must be motivated by social justice and that all artists must talk about their ethics and values (at least those deemed palatably progressive) in all contexts and environments. "My intention is never to be political ... but there's a political bent to my existence," Lipa says. "The easiest thing you can do is just hide away and not have an opinion about anything." The singer is nevertheless cautious about how she lets her contributors use this microphone. She knows she's the one who would face repercussions if a problem arose, so she approves every story herself and leads weekly editorial meetings. If it continues to grow, Service95 might one day replace the glossy, feminist-leaning fashion magazines of the 2000s; right now, it's reminiscent of the chatty, lo-fi publications that the aughts-era blogger Tavi Gevinson offered young fans with "Rookie" before becoming an actress.
"I think it's a marketing tool: How confessional can you be?" she says. "I also don't put so much of my life out there for people to dig into the music in this weird, analytical way."
Lipa, however, has taken the reverse course: Rather than amassing enough access and power within media to eventually jettison the industry for something more glamorous, she's using her celebrity to expose her readers to everything she's witnessing from her perch. "The world is really big, and maybe things don't get to your [corner], so it's a way of bringing everything together," she says. This is a canny strategy, for it implies that Lipa's a normal woman who just hustled her way into an abnormally charmed life while somehow staying grounded. It also makes her seem generous, despite the occasional tone-deaf moment, as when she wrote last November that she "saves up" to go shopping at Amore, the Tokyo vintage luxury handbag emporium.
Among famous women turned media mavens, a category that has recently grown to include the talk show hosts Drew Barrymore and Kelly Clarkson, Lipa's closest analog might be Gwyneth Paltrow, although Goop is much larger and more lucrative than Service95. Lipa won't share audience metrics, but she does plan to bring some readers together at a forthcoming event series that will focus on food, wine and books. ("Like Oprah?" I ask, but she shrugs off the comparison: "We don't really have Oprah [in London].") She's more inspired by Reese Witherspoon, the actress best known for playing Type A go-getters like Tracy Flick in "Election" (1999) who later became one of the first celebrities to launch her own book club, partly to create a pipeline of women-centered stories that her company could option for film and television. Maybe Lipa will do something like that, she tells me, but she hasn't thought of a model "to base Service95 on, which is cool because then it can be its own thing," she adds, sounding like the content executive she's becoming. "I've found being in the media this way very encouraging."
She is, after all, a woman about whom many things have been written who now gets to write the story herself. In the newsletter, this takes the form of a short, paragraph-long editor's letter. But on the podcast, the third season of which is now running weekly in partnership with the BBC, Lipa's more present. Before speaking with each of her guests in conversations that can last an hour or longer, she says she does four or five days of research; Lisa Taddeo, a 43-year-old journalist who published the nonfiction sex narrative "Three Women" in 2019, told me the singer was among the most natural interviewers she's talked to, "impeccably prepared, yet off book in the most conversational way." What Lipa's doing is different than journalism, though, if only because, as she admits, she avoids bringing up anything that might make her interviewees uncomfortable. She typically deflects inquiries about herself in favor of gathering advice from her subjects, who seem to open up in these conversations; it's easy to forget that they're speaking with another artist rather than any other geekily inquisitive host.
Last September, Monica Lewinsky went on the show, where she discussed the Clinton sex scandal and how she recovered from her despair. She was nearly "publicly humiliated to death," she says, after which Lipa lets out a heavy sigh. "Something that really struck me was how feminists agonized over you," Lipa responds. "Whether you were using your own agency. Were you a victim? And I really wonder how this has evolved, and how this experience has defined your own relationship with the feminist movement because, for me, it completely blew me away that feminism then isn't how we know it now, and maybe abuse of power wasn't at the top of the list."
"It was your generation," Lewinsky later reminds her, "that insisted on re-evaluating my story." After their conversation, Lipa decided that the interviews in the third season should each be dedicated to a single topic, much like Lewinsky's was centered on shame and healing. For the first episode, which premiered in June, the singer made what felt like a self-referential gambit: She invited on the English YouTuber Amelia Dimoldenberg, the host of the series "Chicken Shop Date" -- in which she awkwardly interviews actresses like Jennifer Lawrence and Keke Palmer in a fast-food restaurant -- to discuss "how to grow your empire and build your brand," as Lipa says in her editor's note announcing the episode. Dimoldenberg's advice: "Especially for women ... you feel like you have to please everyone, you have to come across a certain type of way where you're not being a diva," to which Lipa murmurs in agreement. "Believe in your idea," Dimoldenberg adds. "That's the most important thing."
EVEN IF LIPA can do all of this, the question remains: Why? Obviously, she could fill her days just being a massively successful musician. But a few weeks after our lunch, she tells me over the phone that she would be "doing a disservice" to herself if she weren't "exploring all the things [she] loved and wanted to share." It's similar to other explanations she's given me: She likes "being thrown into the deep end" and acquiring new skills, above all those that are "aligned" with her "activism and love of reading." She's been interested in media since high school, especially after her father got a master's degree in journalism when he returned to Kosovo. (He became her manager last year after she parted ways with Mawson.) She wants to honor the sacrifices her parents made; these various gigs satisfy "what's maybe the immigrant mentality ... this thing I have in my head where I know that, if I don't work hard enough, the rug could just be pulled from under my feet." If the music stops bringing in audiences, maybe these other enterprises will.
She never says that last part; she probably never would. She also doesn't say what I think is the real answer, which is this: Anyone who works in media can tell you that there's no better way to lead the conversation without ever having to actually talk about yourself. While Lipa's editorial initiative may seem like an act of self-exposure, it's in fact one of self-protection -- it allows her to connect regularly with her audience by sharing her favorite Spanish wine, the public art installations she enjoyed visiting in rural Japan, the causes or activists or artists she cares about. Sharing a lifestyle, however, is different than sharing a life.
During the rare instances when she has to address something more intimate, her own outlets are the ideal way to disseminate the message. After DaBaby, a rapper featured on a remix of her song "Levitating," was videotaped making homophobic comments at a 2021 music festival, Lipa wrote a statement on Instagram, where she has 88.6 million followers, renouncing him and encouraging her fans to fight the stigma around H.I.V./AIDS. That sort of direct communication "was something artists didn't have before," she says. "Whatever was said about you in the press, that was it: That's who you are."
In 2021, an organization founded by the American Orthodox rabbi Shmuley Boteach ran a full-page ad in The New York Times accusing Lipa of antisemitism after she defended Palestinian human rights. Her representatives asked the paper's leaders to apologize, but they didn't. For more than two years, Lipa has turned down all coverage opportunities in The Times. Then she convinced Dean Baquet, the newspaper's former executive editor, to come on her podcast last December. When she brought up the controversy, he had little to say about the company's decisions (he still works here), explaining the church-and-state divisions between editorial and advertising departments. To her, the exchange went as anticipated: "It was enough for me to voice it to the guy at the top," and she could then move on from something that had bothered her for years.
All these decisions are hers to make, of course -- she owes the public no more or no less than she chooses. Still, it's interesting, novel even, to watch a celebrity build a brand off her own interests and obsessions, rather than allow her private life to become an interest and obsession of others. Since the dawn of Madonna, we've expected pop stars (and indeed all female artists) to bare all -- to reference their mental health struggles (Lady Gaga) or their partners' cheating scandals (Beyoncé) -- only to judge and punish them for doing so. Lipa refuses to engage on that level. Her music, too, avoids the strange dissonance of other female artists (Taylor Swift; Adele) who've achieved success by exposing everyday secrets and sadnesses, only to find themselves stuck looping those same narratives now that their lives aren't so relatable. Lipa won't sing about those kinds of Easter eggs: "I think it's a marketing tool: How confessional can you be?" she says. "I also don't put so much of my life out there for people to dig into the music in this weird, analytical way."
The next album will be "more personal," she offers, but that's not why she's doing it. Two days before we'd met for sushi, Lipa had been rewatching "How Can You Mend a Broken Heart," the 2020 documentary about the Bee Gees, "just bawling my eyes out," she says, with her boyfriend, Romain Gavras, a 42-year-old French Greek film director. (Tellingly, her relationship with Gavras is the only thing her publicist asked that I not bring up myself.) In the film, someone talks about "music that just makes your body feel good," she explains. "Those are the songs I get attached to -- that's the kind of feeling I want to convey." Already, she's proved herself adept as a singer in conjuring those sorts of sensations. But as she keeps talking, I notice that the ordinary gesture of recommending a film I haven't seen is making her feel good, too. "You should definitely watch it," she says, interrupting her thoughts about her own music. "It's amazing. I cry every time."
Hair by Rio Sreedharan. Makeup by Samantha Lau. Set design by Afra Zamara for Second Name. Production: Farago Projects. Manicurist: Michelle Humphrey for LMC Worldwide. Photo assistants: Daniel Rodriguez Serrato, Enzo Farrugia, Hermine Werner. Set designer's assistants: Tatyana Rutherston, Viola Vitali, Oualid Boudrar. Tailor: Sabrina Gomis Vallée. Stylist's assistants: Martí Serra, Alexis Landolfi, Anna Castellano
Photograph The pop star Dua Lipa, photographed in Paris on May 25, 2023, wears a Gucci coat (with brooch), $ 12,900, pants, $ 5,200, sunglasses, $ 695, and shoes, $ 1,250, gucci.com; andSkims bra, $ 34, skims.com. Alaïa dress, $ 3,320, and scarf, $ 4,090, maison-alaia.com/us; Skims bra; Stuart Weitzman shoes, $ 495, stuartweitzman.com; her own earrings; and stylist's own underwear. Hair by Rio Sreedharan for the Wall Group. Makeup by Samantha Lau. Set design by Afra Zamara for Second Name. Production: Farago projects. MANICURIST: MICHELLE HUMPHREY for LMC WORLDWIDE. Photo assistants: DANIEL RODRIGUEZ SERRATO, ENZO FARRUGIA, HERMINE WERNER. SET DESIGNER's ASSISTANTS: TATYANA RUTHERSTON, VIOLA VITALI, OUALID BOUDRAR. TAILOR: SABRINA GOMIS VALLÉE. Stylist's assistants: MARTí SERRA, ALEXIS LANDOLFI, ANNA CASTELLANO (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUIS ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ; STYLED BY CARLOS NAZARIO) This article appeared in print on page M2123, M2124, M2125, M2126, M2127.

Subject: Record producers; Restaurants; Dance; Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

People: Lipa, Dua

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/07/t-magazine/dua-lipa-service95.html

Title: The Long Game:   [TStyle ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: M2.123

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

Section: M2

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182282

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/long-game/docview/2853182282/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ladies' Choice: [TStyle]

Author: Madavo, Jessica; Danhier, Delphine

Publication info: Madavo, Jessica; Danhier, Delphine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ladies-choice/docview/2853182181/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Models: Mariama Balde at Women Management, Jiashan Liu at Silent Models and Nyandeng Makur at Next Management. Casting: Isabel Bush. Production: Caminante. Hair: Sébastien Richard at Artlist Paris. Makeup: Porsche Poon at Artlist Paris. Photo assistant: Mohamed Ali Ghouayel. Stylist's assistant: Hector J. Guzman
Photograph From left: Loro Piana jacket, $ 8,250, loropiana.com; Tod's skirt, $ 695, tods.com; and Prada shoes, $ 1,170, prada.com. Dior dress, $ 16,000, and briefs (worn underneath), price on request, (800) 929-3467; Ferragamo shoes, $ 1,090, ferragamo.com; and Balenciaga earrings, $ 1,200, balenciaga.com. Above, from left: Michael Kors Collection jumpsuit, $ 6,590, michaelkors.com; and Schiaparelli boots, price on request, schiaparelli.com. Michael Kors Collection coat, $ 2,890; Balenciaga top, $ 4,950, and earrings; and Prada shoes. From left: Brunello Cucinelli sweater, $ 11,000, shop.brunellocucinelli.com; Maison Margiela skirt, $ 2,115, maisonmargiela.com; and Giorgio Armani shoes, $ 1,195, armani.com. Brunello Cucinelli sweater, $ 9,900; Maison Margiela skirt, $ 3,115; and Gucci shoes, $ 950, gucci.com. Akris jacket, $ 5,990, top, $ 1,390, and pants, $ 5,990, akris.com; and Schiaparelli earrings, price on request, and boots. Below, from left: Miu Miu cardigan, $ 1,790, skirt, $ 1,420, and tights, $ 320, miumiu.com; and Prada shoes. Miu Miu cardigan, $ 1,790, briefs, $ 1,020 and $ 360 (worn underneath), tights and shoes, $ 1,270. Models: mariama Balde at women management, Jiashan liu at silent models and nyandeng makur at next Management. casting: Isabel bush. production: caminante. hair: sébastien richard at artlist paris. makeup: porsche poon at artlist paris. photo assistant: mohamed ali ghouayel. stylist's assistant: Hector J. Guzman (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA MADAVO; STYLED BY DELPHINE DANHIER) This article appeared in print on page M2106, M2108, M2110.

Company / organization: Name: Miu Miu; NAICS: 315210, 315990, 316210; Name: Michael Kors USA Inc; NAICS: 315210, 316992, 325620, 424340, 458110; Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/17/t-magazine/womens-fall-fashion-marseille.html

Title: Ladies' Choice:   [TStyle ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: M2.106

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

column: In Fashion

Section: M2

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182181

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ladies-choice/docview/2853182181/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

There's No Such Thing As a Bad Movie Accent: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Buchanan, Kyle

Publication info: Buchanan, Kyle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-no-such-thing-as-bad-movie-accent/docview/2852900839/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Even the over-the-top ones, like Uma Thurman's Southern drawl in "Red, White & Royal Blue," can be awfully fun.
"Red, White & Royal Blue" waits just seven and a half minutes to get to the good stuff, and by that I'm not referring to the movie's big romance, between a hot British prince and the hot son of the American president, but to its even bigger accent, a syrupy Southern drawl from Uma Thurman that may be this season's most audacious special effect. Imagine Gina Gershon in "Showgirls" crossed with Ross Perot and you'll get halfway there -- the rest of the distance must be traveled holding a mint julep that's in constant, delicious danger of spilling.
President Uma Thurman (the actual character name is incidental, since you will never not be thinking "President Uma Thurman" when she's onscreen) is introduced accent-first, with her back to the camera, because encountering this voice head-on would surely be too much for the unprepared Prime Video viewers who stumbled upon the movie after bingeing "Bosch." We meet her as she's busy lecturing her hot son about his initial clash with the hot prince. "Darlin'," President Uma Thurman says, "yew've dun some pretty stupid things in yur day, buh this ..."
To say my ears perked up is an understatement: It was as though Arianna Huffington had appeared before me reciting a monologue from "True Blood." This is not an accent you should attempt while operating heavy machinery, but Thurman ladles it on so thick that you have to admire the movie-star chutzpah. I even started to miss her whenever "Red, White & Royal Blue" cut back to the hot boys' romantic misadventures: Why are we spending time on these tedious hunks when the most suspenseful thing about the movie is how President Uma Thurman will pronounce any given word?
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Some reviews have taken issue with Thurman's performance, a complaint I only agree with up to a point. Is she miscast? Well, maybe! If you're looking for someone to play a salt-of-the-earth politician with working-class roots, you wouldn't naturally think of the "Pulp Fiction" star, whose bearing is so patrician that she was once the go-to actress for noblewomen and goddesses. And though President Thurman's hot gay son is hesitant to come out to her, that didn't really track for me: How can you fear homophobia from a woman who once did a five-episode arc on "Smash"?
So yes, I'll concede all that, but I have to push back when people start complaining about Thurman's accent. Can something that brings us this much pleasure possibly be "bad"? Thurman adds a jolt of oh-you're-really-going-for-it gusto to each of her scenes in "Red, White & Royal Blue," and the performance is a hoot; though her lines may be as Southern-smothered as grits, I found them every bit as tasty. Others may nitpick, but all I know is that I was gaga for it -- and I don't mean "gaga" as in enthusiastic, I mean "gaga" as in whatever Lady Gaga was doing in "House of Gucci."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Then again, I've never been a stickler for cinematic accents. Some people want to be impressed by a movie, but I ask only to be entertained. Sure, it's technically imposing when someone nails an accent, but what kind of buzzkill waits in the audience with a poised red pen? In the era of the ultra-glossy $ 200 million blockbuster, a little bit of artifice can be welcome and even touching: It's a reminder that every movie comes down to a whole bunch of human beings who've decided to play pretend for you.
Some people complain that an over-the-top accent takes them out of the reality of the film, but I find it pulls me into the pocket of surreality that every movie must muster. For instance, I have no idea if Benny Safdie's jarring Hungarian accent in "Oppenheimer" is realistic, and frankly, I don't care: That focus-pulling voice feels right for the physicist Edward Teller, an overweening character who refuses to mesh with the other scientists. Some critics quibbled with the Italian accents in "House of Gucci," but I can't imagine those two and a half hours without them. If Lady Gaga and Jared Leto weren't talking like Wario by way of "Moonstruck," the movie would have been sapped of all its fun!
The "House of Gucci" director Ridley Scott is hardly a purist when it comes to accents. His forthcoming war film "Napoleon" and recent drama "The Last Duel" both take place in France, but the actors are basically speaking ... well, let's say affected English. Scott once said that forcing French accents on the stars of "The Last Duel" would have been "a disaster," but on that count, I beg to differ. Imagine Ben Affleck winding up to crucial lines with a snooty "a-hon-hon-hon!" Now that you have, you won't want to go without.
Often, the people who get angriest about accents are the ones who say, "I'm actually from there, and that's not how people talk in real life." But movies aren't real life and were never supposed to be. They're fun-house mirrors meant to reflect us back in unusual ways, dream worlds that ask us to believe in things as outlandish as multiverses, 10-foot-tall blue people, or Mark Wahlberg playing a science teacher.
As a native of Southern California, I am absolutely thrilled when actors try our valley cadences (has Emma Watson ever been better than in "The Bling Ring"?) and I wouldn't dream of fact-checking them for accuracy. I'm even amused by how many Brits speak American in a monotone clench that recalls Mira Sorvino in "Romy and Michele's High School Reunion": You're doing that to entertain me? How cute!
When it comes to accent work, you don't have to be good, you just have to be interesting. I admit, though, that I may be speaking from personal experience. A high school teacher once challenged me to speak in a British accent in front of the class, and in a panic, my mind seized on Katharine Hepburn (notably, not British). Attempting to mimic her exotic manner of speaking, I landed somewhere north of Mid-Atlantic and drowned.
But what a way to go. I still remember the other students' faces: shocked, delighted, appalled, compelled. It's all the things I feel now when an actor tries an accent that either falls short of the mark or overshoots it wildly. There is a clip from a British stage production of "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" that regularly makes the rounds because the actress Sienna Miller recites her Tennessee Williams dialogue like she's Jodie Foster in "Nell." I watch it every single time, analyzing those few seconds like they're Zapruder footage. I have even come to the conclusion that if Southern people don't actually sound like that, well, maybe they should start.
So as far as I'm concerned, Uma Thurman has nothing to apologize for. Sure, it's hard to buy her as a character who hails from Austin, but the city's motto is "Keep Austin Weird," and you can't fault Thurman's accent for trying. To me, it's far more embarrassing that "Red, White & Royal Blue" rips a page from Ryan Murphy's handbook and forces Thurman to drawl about Truvada and bottoming just so the moment can go viral on Gay Twitter. Her accent was already enough for that!
If nothing else, I hope I've convinced you that a little more latitude is needed when viewers are determined to declare a movie accent as something that's either "good" or "bad." It's astonishing when an actor like Meryl Streep can pull out an impeccable accent like it's nothing, but it's just as fascinating when people try. We can often be high-minded about the craft of performance, but sometimes it's good to be reminded of one awfully entertaining truth: A whole lot of acting is just funny talking.
Photograph Uma Thurman, right, with Sharon D Clarke in "Red, White & Royal Blue." Thurman's character is from Texas; her accent is as big as the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRIME VIDEO) (C1); In "House of Gucci," Lady Gaga sounds like Wario by way of "Moonstruck." (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABIO LOVINO/MGM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4.

Subject: Presidents; Motion pictures; Actors

People: Thurman, Uma; Lady Gaga (musician)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/18/movies/uma-thurman-red-white-royal-blue-accent.html

Title: There's No Such Thing As a Bad Movie Accent:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 19, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852900839

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-no-such-thing-as-bad-movie-accent/docview/2852900839/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Summer Visit to Aspen on the Cheap: [Travel Desk]

Author: Glusac, Elaine

Publication info: Glusac, Elaine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-visit-aspen-on-cheap/docview/2852900824/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Colorado town associated with glitzy ski trips also draws summer visitors who love hiking, biking and cultural festivals. Here's how to craft an affordable vacation in this famously expensive enclave.
Over an $ 8.50 pint of craft beer from Aspen Brewing Company, which is comparable to what I pay at home in Chicago, I realized that Aspen, Colo., is not expensive by big-city standards. It's expensive by small-town standards.
The Economic Research Institute, which compiles financial data for public and private organizations, pegs the cost of living in Aspen at 51 percent higher than the average in the United States, a little less than a city like Seattle.
As a professionally penny-pinching traveler, I try to avoid paying urban prices in the mountains. In the summer in Aspen, apart from my weakness for microbrews, I didn't have to.
For those who don't care to shop for Prada or Gucci clothing, or don't maintain elaborate second mansions here, Aspen's essential appeal lies in the outdoors -- mountains, wildlife, rivers -- which, compared with winter, when you might need to rent ski equipment or pay for mountain access, is a steal. Hiking and city bus transportation are free. Cycling, if you can avoid expensive rentals, is a bargain. Parks beckon picnickers, and free cultural attractions abound.
Over the course of three days in Aspen, I spent about $ 600 before airfare, with most of that on lodging. Here's how I cheaped out in a resort town synonymous with wealth.
Extra beds and free wheels
An annual winter visitor to Aspen, I touched down in July, astonished at how dramatic the mountains looked without fluffy layers of snow to soften their jagged edges.
From the Aspen/Pitkin County Airport, nearly four miles from downtown, the Roaring Fork Transportation Authority buses are free to and around town, saving more than $ 20 on a taxi and delivering the moral satisfaction of speeding by bumper-to-bumper traffic in a bus-only lane.
Within 10 minutes, I reached town and walked a few blocks to my Main Street accommodations at the Tyrolean Lodge, a relatively affordable, family-run hotel decorated in vintage ski gear and backcountry photos that the local Aspen Times once called "a dying breed in Aspen."
"There used to be small lodges all over Aspen owned by families and not corporations," said Pierre Wille, the general manager, whose family has owned the Tyrolean since 1970.
Fifteen of its 16 rooms accommodate five people in three beds, and all have efficiency kitchens with free coffee to help guests economize on meals. I paid $ 267 a night including taxes and fees, which, for budget travelers, is expensive for one person, but a find for families and groups, potentially knocking the price down to $ 53 a night per person. By comparison, rates at the luxury Hotel Jerome were running $ 1,275 a night. Even the more modest Limelight Hotel Aspen was charging over $ 700 a night.
"We're interested in keeping Aspen affordable," Mr. Wille said. "A ski bum can still sort of make it."
A summer bum, I was relieved to find the lodge offered free bikes. The fleet of eight hand-me-downs solidly beat the offerings at local shops, which mostly rent only electric bikes, charging $ 130 a day for e-bike rentals.
I pedaled my single-speed cruiser to the nearby Rio Grande Trail, which runs down the valley following the Roaring Fork River from Aspen 42 miles to Glenwood Springs. I breezed as far as Woody Creek, about eight miles, before turning around for the uphill return, consoling myself with extended wildflower-viewing time as other cyclists whizzed past on e-bikes.
Bus to the wilds
As skiing is to winter, hiking is to summer. Several trails take off from town, and anyone who hikes up Aspen Mountain can take the gondola back down free.
Among the stars of the Elk Mountains that surround Aspen are the "14ers," or 14,000-foot-plus peaks, including Maroon Peak and North Maroon Peak, collectively known as the Maroon Bells, about 10 miles west of town.
One look at the majestic pyramidal pair reflected in Maroon Lake at the base of the Maroon Bells Scenic Area explains why more than 300,000 visitors come here each year. To quell traffic between May and October, RFTA runs a bus ( $ 16 by reservation) to the area from Aspen Highlands, one of the four ski mountains that make up Aspen Snowmass (a free RFTA bus travels between town and Aspen Highlands).
I booked the day's first lightly trafficked shuttle at 7 a.m. on a chilly, bright morning and hit the trail to Crater Lake, 3.6 miles round-trip, for closer mountain views. Stands of aspen gave way to alpine meadows blooming with wild columbine and aspen sunflowers. The trail bisected one rock pile occupied by a family of pika, pudgy rabbit relatives who vocalized like squeaky toys.
By 9 a.m., as I descended back to the bus base, a steady stream of hikers were making their way up the trail with cellphone cameras pointed lakeside at a family of moose.
Adjusting to happy hour
While the outdoors are free, the indoors -- namely restaurants and bars -- require strategy.
"With happy hours, you're golden," advised my famously thrifty brother-in-law Chuck Leavitt, who lives near Aspen, noting the happy-hour deals that many restaurants offer during off-peak hours.
There are few locations better than Ajax Tavern, with a sprawling outdoor patio at the foot of Aspen Mountain. Its happy-hour deals slash margaritas from a nosebleed $ 19 to a reasonable $ 8. But the signature truffle fries, undiscounted, cost $ 21, and food specials like arancini at $ 15 weren't enough for dinner.
Besides limited menus, the problem with happy hours is adjusting to dining between the early-bird hours of 3 and 6 p.m., which I managed the next day at Mezzaluna. A veggie pizza ( $ 14) from its happy-hour menu provided ample leftovers for breakfast.
Lunches, thankfully, were easier. A sizable slice of pepperoni pizza at New York Pizza set me back $ 6.25. Red Fox Frozen Yogurt offers self-serve by the ounce (75 cents) so I limited myself to a $ 2 cup. My friend Tess Weaver, a writer who lives in nearby Basalt, suggested we meet at the Big Wrap for lunch, where her chicken pesto and my chicken Caesar -- both as generous as the business name implies -- cost $ 11 each.
"Most of my dates with friends are hikes, bike rides or river activities," she said, as we sat at a public table on shady Cooper Avenue and discussed spots to stage B.Y.O. après-sport picnics. "You meet people to do free things."
Cultural freebies
One considerable trickle-down benefit to the largess for which Aspen is famed is that most of its major cultural attractions are free, including the Aspen Art Museum. A few blocks from the ski hill, I toured exhibitions by the Iranian artist Nairy Baghramian and paintings by the German artist Florian Krewer before reaching the tranquil Rooftop Café, where a pick-me-up cappuccino cost $ 4.
Aspen's reputation as a cultural destination began after the Chicago businessman Walter Paepcke visited in the 1940s and envisioned the former mining town as a gathering place for artists, thinkers and leaders, an inspiration that would spawn the nonprofit Aspen Institute and the Aspen Music Festival and School. In 1946, he lured the artist and designer Herbert Bayer, who had studied and taught at the influential Bauhaus in Germany, to Aspen, where Bayer would design everything from Modernist homes to the Aspen leaf logo originally used by the local ski company.
Bayer's prolific work in textiles, book graphics and more is the subject of the year-old Resnick Center for Herbert Bayer Studies (free). A six-minute bike ride from downtown, the museum borders the 40-acre Aspen Institute grounds, which Bayer also designed. After an hour in the museum, I spent another outside with a free online guide from the Aspen Meadows resort, seeking out marble sculptures, earthworks and a topographic mural by the artist.
Next door, in a giant tent, caterers were preparing for a concert from the Aspen Music Festival, an eight-week summer series devoted to classical music and opera (through Aug. 20). Headlining performances by the opera singer Renée Fleming and other stars start at $ 75, but the calendar is loaded with free events, often performed by some of the school's more than 400 students (alumni include the violinist Joshua Bell and the composer Philip Glass).
That evening, I took a bus to the school's leafy campus about two miles out of town to attend a String Showcase, a free one-hour concert by violin and cello students who performed a range of music, from the French Romantic composer Ernest Chausson to the contemporary Turkish composer Fazil Say.
"The free events are important parts of what we do," said Laura E. Smith, the festival's marketing and communications vice president, estimating that roughly 70 percent of its programming is free. "More than a ticket sale, it's about heart and humans and enriching the world."
Backcountry day trips: $ 65
In summer, when mountain roads are free of snow, Aspen is a great base for day trips in the region, including exploring the Continental Divide on 12,095-foot Independence Pass. Extremely fit bicyclists make the roughly 20-mile ascent southeast of Aspen -- gaining over 4,000 feet in elevation -- but far more drive the twisting, narrow route on a seasonal stretch of Highway 82 that follows the cascading Roaring Fork River.
I hitched a ride with my sister and brother-in-law, who live in nearby Carbondale. Slushy ice still covered a pond ringed in wildflowers on the pass. Working our way back down the road, we parked below the pass to hike to Linkins Lake, a steep 1.2-mile round-trip in the Hunter-Fryingpan Wilderness for a lakeside picnic, and later wandered around the mining ghost town of Independence. At the Grottos, we waded into the icy river at a tumbling section known as the Cascades. We broke out a D.I.Y. happy hour at Devil's Punchbowl, entertained by jumpers from surrounding cliffs launching themselves into a river pool.
To replicate this day without freeloading, I would need to rent a car (Kayak lists them from $ 48 a day), pack a picnic (Grateful Deli's ham, turkey, Cheddar and Swiss, $ 10.50) and stock up on beer (25-ounce cans of Bud Light were recently priced at two for $ 6 at City Market grocery in Aspen), a roughly $ 65 outlay, not including gas. Rocky Mountain high: priceless.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Top, the Elk Mountains that surround Aspen include 14,000-foot-plus peaks likes the Maroon Bells. Second row: The Tyrolean Lodge is a relatively affordable option; at Devil's Punchbowl, people leap from cliffs into a river pool. The Aspen Art Museum, above, is free. The Rio Grande Trail, above right, follows the Roaring Fork River. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Trails; Composers; Art galleries & museums; Bicycles; Mountains; Skiing; Rentals; Music festivals; Musical performances; Bicycling

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Aspen Institute; NAICS: 541720

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/07/travel/aspen-for-budget-travelers.html

Title: A Summer Visit to Aspen on the Cheap:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 19, 2023

column: Frugal Traveler

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852900824

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-visit-aspen-on-cheap/docview/2852900824/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

All the Former President's Lawyers And How Much They Charged Him: [National Desk]

Author: Cameron, Chris

Publication info: Cameron, Chris. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/all-former-presidents-lawyers-how-much-they/docview/2851701392/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donald Trump's PACs have spent millions of dollars on a small army of lawyers to defend him in four separate federal and state criminal cases.
Former President Donald J. Trump has become entangled in a web of federal and state prosecution, and now faces 91 criminal charges in four separate state and federal cases.
Political action committees supporting him have spent more than $ 27 million on legal costs in the first six months of 2023, and he has recruited a small army of lawyers to defend him. Here are a dozen of the prominent figures and their bills paid by Mr. Trump's Save America PAC.
Lawyers Involved in Multiple Cases
Todd Blanche, 49, founder of Blanche Law in New York City
Fees: $ 353,000 paid to his firm from April to June 2023
Todd Blanche, a former federal prosecutor with wide experience in white-collar cases, has a reputation as an aggressive but measured advocate. He represented Paul J. Manafort, Mr. Trump's former 2016 campaign chairman, in a Manhattan case involving charges of mortgage fraud and other state felonies, as well as Igor Fruman, a Soviet-born former associate of Rudolph W. Giuliani who pleaded guilty to soliciting foreign campaign contributions in 2021.
Mr. Trump hired Mr. Blanche in April. His firm has been paid $ 353,000 for legal work by Save America, according to federal filings. Mr. Blanche is representing Mr. Trump in the Stormy Daniels hush money case, the federal classified documents case and the federal election interference case.
Boris Epshteyn, 41
Fees: $ 195,000 paid in 2022
Boris Epshteyn, a top adviser and longtime ally of Mr. Trump, serves as something of an in-house counsel, helping to coordinate the former president's many lawyers. He was paid $ 195,000 by Mr. Trump's PAC in 2022, though not specifically for legal consulting, and at least $ 30,000 by his 2024 campaign. He is thought to be one of six unnamed co-conspirators in the federal election interference case and has been enmeshed in other Trump investigations as a witness. He has been represented by Mr. Blanche, and had recommended adding Mr. Blanche to Mr. Trump's legal team.
Christopher M. Kise, 58, founder of Chris Kise & Associates in Tallahassee, Fla.
Fees: $ 5.8 million in 2022 and the first six months of 2023
Christopher M. Kise is a former Florida solicitor general who has won four cases before the United States Supreme Court and who worked as a transition adviser for Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida. He was hired to represent Mr. Trump in the federal documents case in the aftermath of the F.B.I. search at the former president's Mar-a-Lago resort, and he was paid an upfront retainer fee of $ 3 million, a figure that CNN reported had was much noticed by Mr. Trump's other lawyers, as the former president has a long history of not paying his legal fees.
Mr. Trump's PAC paid Mr. Kise's firm an additional $ 2.8 million since he was hired last year, and paid nearly $ 2.9 million in 2022 and 2023 to Continental, a law firm at which Mr. Kise is of counsel, according to federal filings.
M. Evan Corcoran, 59, partner at Silverman Thompson in Baltimore
Fees: $ 3.4 million in 2022 and the first half of 2023
M. Evan Corcoran quickly became a central figure in the documents case after he began representing Mr. Trump. A federal appeals court ordered Mr. Corcoran to hand over documents related to his legal work, records that eventually became crucial evidence for prosecutors in the case. Mr. Corcoran accompanied Mr. Trump for his arraignment this month in the election interference case. Mr. Corcoran's firm has been paid a total of $ 3.4 million by Mr. Trump's PAC in 2022 and the first six months of 2023.
Stormy Daniels Hush Money Case in New York
Joe Tacopina, 57, founder of Tacopina Seigel & DeOreo in New York City
Fees: $ 1.7 million in the first half of 2023
Once described as "to the defense bar what Donald Trump is to real estate," Joe Tacopina's custom of defending his clients vociferously and in public has helped him earn and maintain a seat of prominence on Mr. Trump's legal team. He was a central figure in the civil case against Mr. Trump by E. Jean Carroll and aggressively questioned Ms. Carroll in an attempt to cast doubt on her allegations of sexual assault. Mr. Trump's PAC paid Mr. Tacopina's firm $ 1.7 million in the first half of 2023.
Susan Necheles, 64, partner at NechelesLaw in New York City
Fees: $ 465,000 in the first half of 2023
Susan R. Necheles was counsel to Venero Mangano, the late Genovese crime family underboss known as "Benny Eggs," and recently represented Jeremy Reichberg, a former fundraiser for Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York, in a federal bribery case. She has been defending Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization in a variety of investigations since 2021. Mr. Trump's PAC paid her firm $ 465,000 in the first six months of 2023.
Federal Classified Documents Case
Stephen Weiss, 35, counsel at Blanche Law in New York City
Stephen Weiss worked as an associate at the law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft for six years before joining Mr. Blanche in June at his firm. Mr. Weiss was present at a pretrial hearing for Mr. Trump in the documents case last month.
Lindsey Halligan, 34
Fees: $ 212,000 in 2022 and the first half of 2023
Lindsey Halligan was part of an aggressive effort by Mr. Trump's legal team last year to have a special master appointed to review documents the F.B.I. had seized in the raid on Mar-a-Lago. She was also part of a team of lawyers who met with Justice Department officials in June in a final effort to stave off charges in the documents case. Mr. Trump's PAC paid her $ 212,000 from June 2022 to June 2023.
Federal Election Interference Case
John Lauro, 65, principal of Lauro & Singer in New York City and Tampa, Fla.
Fees: $ 288,000 in 2022 and the first half of 2023
John Lauro formally joined Mr. Trump's legal team in the election interference case earlier this month, although he had earlier advised the former president on legal matters. He was paid $ 288,000 for his legal work in 2022 and the first six months of 2023 by Mr. Trump's PAC. He accompanied the former president to his arraignment in the federal election interference case earlier this month.
Mr. Lauro gained notoriety for representing Tim Donaghy, a former N.B.A. referee who pleaded guilty to betting on games and taking payoffs from gamblers. He also previously worked as a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn.
Election Interference Case in Georgia
Drew Findling, 63, founder of Findling Law Firm in Atlanta
Fees: $ 816,000 in 2022 and the first half of 2023
Drew Findling, a prolific figure in the world of Atlanta rap known as the #BillionDollarLawyer, joined Mr. Trump's legal team a year ago. Mr. Findling has represented an array of famous rap stars -- including Cardi B, Gucci Mane and Migos -- and is well regarded for his defense work, with decades of trial experience ranging from high-profile murder cases to local political corruption scandals in Georgia. Mr. Trump's PAC paid his firm $ 816,000 from July 2022 to May 2023.
Marissa Goldberg, 40, partner at Findling Law Firm in Atlanta
Marissa Goldberg, a partner at Mr. Findling's law firm, has worked alongside Mr. Findling and Ms. Little in an effort to quash the entire Georgia election case and to disqualify Fani T. Willis, the Fulton County district attorney leading the case.
Jennifer Little, 44, founder of Jennifer Little Law in Atlanta
Fees: $ 100,000
Jennifer Little began her career as a prosecutor in DeKalb County, Ga., before becoming a partner at the firm Fried Bonder White. She later started her own firm, Jennifer Little Law. Like Mr. Corcoran, Ms. Little was compelled to testify about her legal work representing Mr. Trump in the federal documents case. She was paid $ 100,000 by Mr. Trump's PAC in April 2022.
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES; ANDREW HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS; MARCO BELLO/REUTERS; JOSE LUIS MAGANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS; BRITTAINY NEWMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AMR ALFIKY/REUTERS; ALYSSA POINTER/ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION; JOSE LUIS MAGANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Attorneys; Law firms; Public prosecutors; Campaign contributions; Political campaigns; Presidents; Sex crimes; Classified information; Fees & charges

Business indexing term: Subject: Law firms

Location: New York; United States--US; Georgia; New York City New York; Florida; Atlanta Georgia

People: Trump, Donald J; Clifford, Stephanie (Stormy Daniels)

Company / organization: Name: Mar-a-Lago C lub; NAICS: 713910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/16/us/politics/trump-lawyers-fees.html

Title: All the Former President's Lawyers And How Much They Charged Him:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2851701392

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/all-former-presidents-lawyers-how-much-they/docview/2851701392/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

From Inquiry to Indictment, Unrelenting Challenges for D.A.: [National Desk]

Author: Hakim, Danny; Fausset, Richard

Publication info: Hakim, Danny; Fausset, Richard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inquiry-indictment-unrelenting-challenges-d/docview/2850989656/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Fani T. Willis faced hiring challenges, threats, a judge's reproach and a series of legal obstacles over her two-and-a-half-year investigation of Donald J. Trump.
Fani T. Willis was barely three days into her new job as district attorney of Fulton County, Ga., when a potential case caught her attention.
A recording had emerged of Donald J. Trump, in his waning days as president, telling Brad Raffensperger, the Georgia secretary of state and a fellow Republican, that he wanted to "find" nearly 12,000 votes, or enough to reverse his narrow 2020 election loss there. The call fell squarely in Ms. Willis's new jurisdiction, since Fulton County includes the State Capitol building in Atlanta where Mr. Raffensperger works.
Ms. Willis had inherited an office with a deep backlog of cases exacerbated by the pandemic, and had limited staff. But she knew almost immediately that she would investigate.
"When allegations come about -- about anything that would hamper society's ability to believe in fair elections, or if there is even conduct that rises to the level of suspicion, I don't think that I have a choice," Ms. Willis said in February 2021, shortly after announcing that she had opened a criminal inquiry into the matter.
Over the next two and a half years, what began as an examination of a single phone call became a sprawling investigation stretching across multiple counties and states and into the federal government. On Monday, Ms. Willis announced that a grand jury had indicted 19 people on 41 felony counts, including Mr. Trump and a number of his former top aides and allies, on charges that they had criminally conspired to overturn the results of the 2020 election in her state.
That the most expansive case against Mr. Trump and his associates would emerge from a local prosecutor's office in the Deep South was never a given.
Her office faced frequent security concerns and threats as the investigation played out, many of them racist, leading Ms. Willis to have staff members outfitted with bulletproof vests.
There was a parade of legal challenges from witnesses reluctant to testify in her investigation -- including from Senator Lindsey Graham and Mark Meadows, Mr. Trump's former chief of staff -- though most eventually did so after losing court battles.
Ms. Willis's own political judgment became a sticking point when a judge berated her for headlining a fund-raiser for a Democrat rival of a state lawmaker who was one of the investigation's potential targets.
Through it all, she made clear that she would not be deterred. When she and a lawyer for Gov. Brian Kemp, a Republican, got into a disagreement over the terms of Mr. Kemp providing testimony in her investigation, Ms. Willis wrote to the lawyer in an email: "You have taken my kindness as weakness," adding, "Despite your disdain, this investigation continues and will not be derailed by anyone's antics."
While Ms. Willis has been depicted by Mr. Trump and his allies as a left-wing zealot, she is actually a centrist, law-and-order prosecutor. Only a few months before taking office, when she was facing a primary against her old boss, an anonymous flier circulated that superimposed a photograph of Ms. Willis standing next to Mr. Trump and branded her as a Republican.
Before becoming district attorney, she was best known for helping lead a high-profile case a decade ago against a group of educators in the Atlanta public school system who were involved in a widespread cheating scandal. Some attacked her for prosecuting teachers and other educators, but she retorted in a 2021 interview that she was sticking up for children.
"Y'all can put it in my obituary," she said of the criticism.
From the start of the Trump investigation, Ms. Willis floated the possibility of bringing charges under the state's version of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO, as she had done in the cheating case. One of her early hires as an outside consultant, in March 2021, was John E. Floyd, who wrote a guidebook on such laws, published by the American Bar Association.
But the investigation was slow to develop. Today, Ms. Willis has about 10 people working on the case, including Mr. Floyd, out of a total work force of 370 people.
Finding a lead prosecutor for what would be one of the highest-profile cases in the state's history was another hurdle. After several candidates turned her down, she enlisted an old friend, Nathan Wade, a defense lawyer and former municipal court judge whose small firm handled personal injury cases as well as criminal defense.
As the case heads toward trial, Ms. Willis's office is prosecuting another sprawling racketeering case involving prominent local rappers accused of operating a criminal gang. That case has its own dramas slowing it down, including legal sparring over evidence of a goat sacrifice and jury selection that has already taken more than seven months.
"We're not one-dimensional, right?" Ms. Willis told a local radio station recently, adding that her office could pursue the election investigation "while making sure that, as you see, the murder rate is dropping in Atlanta. We can walk and chew gum at the same time."
By last summer, the Trump investigation took a critical turn on two fronts. A special grand jury was empaneled at Ms. Willis's request. In Georgia, such juries cannot bring indictments, but can gather information for longer periods of time than regular grand juries can, giving them the ability to dig into complex issues.
At the same time, the House committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol began its public hearings, and its fact-gathering would be a valuable source of information for the Georgia investigators.
But Ms. Willis was soon found to have committed a misstep. In July 2022, the judge presiding over the case, Robert C.I. McBurney, barred her from pursuing charges against Burt Jones, a state lawmaker and Republican candidate for lieutenant governor in Georgia. Ms. Willis had headlined a recent fund-raiser for Mr. Jones's Democratic rival.
"This scenario creates a plain -- and actual and untenable -- conflict," the judge wrote in his decision, after noting during a hearing on the matter that "the optics are horrific." By then, Mr. Jones, one of the 16 pro-Trump "alternate electors" in Georgia, had been told that he could face charges, along with the other fake electors. But any potential prosecution of Mr. Jones, who eventually won election as Georgia's lieutenant governor, would have to be handled by another prosecutor.
The special grand jurors spent the second half of last year interviewing about 75 witnesses over seven months.
"We definitely started with the first phone call, the call to Secretary Raffensperger," said Emily Kohrs, the forewoman of the special grand jury, in an interview in February.
From there, they heard evidence about how votes and voting machines were handled. They discussed the vote counting that took place at State Farm Arena in downtown Atlanta, and the false claims that Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump's former personal lawyer, and other Trump allies made about ballot fraud taking place there.
The jurors "talked a lot" about state legislative hearings that Mr. Giuliani spoke at in December 2020, spreading misinformation about the election, Ms. Kohrs said, "and then we talked some about events leading up to and immediately following the January phone call."
They also heard evidence about Trump allies breaching the election system in a rural county south of Atlanta in hopes of finding evidence that the election had been rigged.
As the special grand jury's work proceeded, Mr. Trump hired a high profile Atlanta lawyer, Drew Findling, who had represented rappers such as Cardi B, Gucci Mane and Migos.
Mr. Findling tried repeatedly to derail the investigation, an aggressive strategy that is not unusual among Mr. Trump's growing retinue of lawyers. Complications proliferated as a number of witnesses wavered, and by May more than half of the bogus Trump electors were cooperating with Ms. Willis's office.
Georgia judges also appeared to run out of patience with the Trump team's filings. The State Supreme Court unanimously rebuffed Mr. Findling's efforts to have Ms. Willis disqualified. And Judge McBurney, of Fulton County Superior Court, encouraged the Trump team to follow professional standards "before burdening other courts with unnecessary and unfounded legal filings."
This week, after the charges were announced, Mr. Findling and Mr. Trump's other Georgia lawyers, Jennifer Little and Marissa Goldberg, said in a statement that they "look forward to a detailed review of this indictment which is undoubtedly just as flawed and unconstitutional as this entire process has been."'
With the indictment in the books, a new set of legal battles is now sure to begin. Ms. Willis has made clear that this is not an ordinary prosecution, going so far as to instruct many employees to work from home for the first half of August as charges loomed and security concerns built.
Yet she has also emphasized that in some ways, she will treat the case against Mr. Trump like any other.
If anyone interfered with the election, "I have a duty to investigate," she said, adding: "In my mind, it's not of much consequence what title they wore."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Witnesses; Evidence; Indictments; Election results; Court hearings & proceedings; State elections; Criminal investigations; Public hearings; Scandals; Interviews; Grand juries

Location: United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia

People: Trump, Donald J; Willis, Fani

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/15/us/fani-willis-donald-trump-georgia-investigation.html

Title: From Inquiry to Indictment, Unrelenting Challenges for D.A.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850989656

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inquiry-indictment-unrelenting-challenges-d/docview/2850989656/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Slowdown In China Puts World On Notice: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slowdown-china-puts-world-on-notice/docview/2849238689/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As China's economy flashes indications of decline, the consequences pose perils for countries around the globe.
For more than a quarter-century, China has been synonymous with relentless development and upward mobility. As its 1.4 billion people gained an appetite for the wares of the world -- Hollywood movies, South Korean electronics, iron ore mined in Australia -- the global economy was propelled by a seemingly inexhaustible engine.
Now that engine is sputtering, posing alarming risks for Chinese households and economies around the planet. Long the centerpiece of a profit-enhancing version of globalization, China has devolved into the ultimate wild card in a moment of extraordinary uncertainty for the world's economy.
The risks have been amplified in recent weeks by a slew of developments.
First came word that China's economy had slowed substantially in the spring, extinguishing hopes of a robust expansion after the lifting of extreme Covid restrictions.
This week brought data showing that China's exports have declined for three months in a row, while imports have dropped for five consecutive months -- another indicator of flagging prospects.
Then came news that prices have fallen on a range of goods, from food to apartments, raising the specter that China could be on the brink of so-called deflation, or sustained drops in prices, a harbinger of anemic commercial activity.
And in a sign of deepening distress in China's housing market -- the intersection of finance, construction and household wealth -- a major real estate developer, Country Garden, missed payments on its bonds and estimated it lost up to $ 7.6 billion in the first half of the year.
For Chinese workers and households, these events added up to trouble. Around the globe, a weakening Chinese economy signaled a shrinking of demand for major goods -- from soybeans harvested in Brazil, to beef raised in the United States, to luxury goods made in Italy. It spelled less appetite for oil, minerals and other building blocks of industry.
"The slowdown in China is definitely going to weigh on the global economic outlook," said Larry Hu, Hong Kong-based chief China economist for Macquarie, the Australian financial services firm. "Because China is now the No. 1 commodity consumer in the world, the impact is going to be pretty, pretty big."
Over the past decade, China has been the source of more than 40 percent of global economic growth, compared with 22 percent from the United States and 9 percent from the 20 countries that use the euro currency, according to recent analysis from BCA Research.
Adding to the worry is the widespread sense that the Chinese authorities are limited in their options to reinvigorate the economy, given mounting debts now estimated at 282 percent of national output -- more than that of the United States.
The government has outlined spending programs aimed at spurring consumers to spend and businesses to invest. But the details have been opaque, while leaving the impression that local governments will be stuck with the bill. Local governments are at the center of concerns about the debt crisis. They had borrowed aggressively for years to finance the construction of roads, bridges and industrial parks.
All of this is playing out as China's ruling Communist Party tries to transition from an economy powered by state-directed investments in infrastructure and exports to one led by domestic consumer spending.
The old model has run its course. It worked remarkably well for the two decades spanning the millennium, when the government financed ports, electrical grids and other basic works for an export-led factory boom.
At the same time, private entrepreneurs started some of the world's more innovative and valuable technology companies. In more recent years, many have been constrained by a regulatory crackdown overseen by President Xi Jinping.
In the rest of the world -- and especially in the United States -- China's staggering export growth, combined with the loss of domestic factory jobs, has set off conflicts over trade.
The Trump administration imposed across-the-board tariffs on Chinese imports. The Biden administration has continued that policy, adding prohibitions on investment in key Chinese sectors such as advanced computer chips. President Biden intensified that campaign in signing an executive order on Wednesday barring investment in industries that can bolster China's military.
On Thursday, Mr. Biden referred to China's economic vulnerabilities as "a ticking time bomb," adding: "When bad folks have problems, they do bad things."
President Xi has previously accused the United States of running a campaign aimed at suppressing China's development.
Faced with hostilities between Washington and Beijing, and chastened during the pandemic by the difficulties moving products from Chinese factories to retailers in North America and Europe, multinational companies have shifted factory orders to countries like Vietnam, India and Mexico.
For Chinese policymakers, the alterations to the geography of international commerce have added urgency to the transition toward an economy centered on domestic spending power.
Still, those designs were halted by the pandemic. The government imposed draconian restrictions on business and freedom of movement, locking down whole cities.
The lifting of those controls in December, after an extraordinary series of public protests, was widely anticipated as a catalyst for consumer spending. But consumer spending has been weak -- so weak that China's National Bureau of Statistics recently halted the release of data that drew attention to the economy's problems.
Chinese households have long been some of the most prodigious savers on earth, owing to the fact that social safety nets are meager. Over the first half of this year, total household deposits in the Chinese banking system grew by some 12 trillion Chinese yuan (about $ 1.7 trillion), the largest expansion in a decade.
But the increase in savings, as well as the weakness of investment and consumer spending, appears to reflect a general erosion of public faith. During the pandemic, policy lurched from total lockdown to no controls -- what the economist Adam Posen recently called "economic long Covid."
For China's consumers, some of the extra ardor for stashing cash reflects the widespread recognition that real estate is a story full of unhappy endings. Decades of overinvestment by developers has yielded entire cities full of empty apartment blocks. As prices plunge, developers are halting projects in midstream, leaving the skeletons of high-rises serving as monuments to a speculative bonanza gone awry.
This basic story has provoked comparisons to Japan, where the bursting of a speculative real estate bubble in the early 1990s led the country into three decades of decline.
Central to Japan's slide was deflation, a term that sends shivers up the spines of economists.
Deflation works its way into a society's basic expectations, destroying incentives to spend, expand businesses or hire workers, given the likelihood that everything will be cheaper later. What is, for individuals, a rational thrift metastasizes into decline for society.
Most economists think China will avoid that fate. Falling prices may soon reverse. And the government appears to have moderated its attacks on successful private businesses.
After years of demonizing private entrepreneurs, the government has lately signaled a pivot to a more "pro-growth, pro-business mind-set," said Bruce Pang, chief economist for Greater China at JLL, a real estate and investment management firm in Hong Kong. "The key policy priority will be how to boost domestic demand."
In the most optimistic scenario, the government will engineer a gradual transition to slower growth, trading factory jobs for those in services, while containing the size of real estate losses.
Yet if the debt hanging over China's economy limits the potency of the government's response, that could bring about the worst fears -- a plunge in housing prices, followed by expensive rescues of strapped lenders, and an unruly exodus of money.
That outcome most unnerves government officials, given that it could bring joblessness, business insolvencies and social strife.
Such images undergird the assumption that the government will intensify its efforts to stimulate the economy, even as doing so may exacerbate the foundational threats to the economy, creating fresh debts.
Yet even if the government succeeds in overseeing a gradual economic slowdown, some see mounting challenges that threaten to provoke significant volatility.
The continued shifting of factory work away from China, along with the focus on centering the economy on domestic consumption, is likely to push down wages and household wealth. And even in a country controlled by a single unelected party, the loss of faith of large numbers of people may bring turbulence.
China's exports and imports collectively make up 40 percent of its total economic output, noted Yasheng Huang, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, at a conference in May. Many of China's imports are components for exported factory goods. So the more that China's exports drop, the more that imports do, too -- a feedback loop of diminishing fortunes.
That drags down jobs and incomes, Mr. Huang said. "There's no way it is a happy story."
Photograph Many construction projects across China have been left unfinished. A Gucci store in Shanghai, right. After an extraordinary series of public protests, below, it was anticipated that lifting coronavirus restrictions would serve as a catalyst for consumer spending in China, but the response has been weak. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; THOMAS PETER/REUTERS) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Exports; Global economy; Decades; Households

Business indexing term: Subject: Exports Global economy

Location: China; United States--US; Japan; Hong Kong China

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/11/business/china-economy-trade-deflation.html

Title: Slowdown In China Puts World On Notice:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 12, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849238689

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slowdown-china-puts-world-on-notice/docview/2849238689/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China’s Stalling Economy Puts the World on Notice

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-stalling-economy-puts-world-on-notice/docview/2849215298/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For more than a quarter-century, China has been synonymous with relentless development and upward mobility. As its 1.4 billion people gained an appetite for the wares of the world — Hollywood movies, South Korean electronics, iron ore mined in Australia — the global economy was propelled by a seemingly inexhaustible engine.
Now that engine is sputtering, posing alarming risks for Chinese households and economies around the planet. Long the centerpiece of a profit-enhancing version of globalization, China has devolved into the ultimate wild card in a moment of extraordinary uncertainty for the world’s economy.
The risks have been amplified in recent weeks by a slew of developments.
First came word that China’s economy had slowed substantially in the spring, extinguishing hopes of a robust expansion following the lifting of extreme COVID restrictions.
This week brought data showing that China’s exports have declined for three months in a row, while imports have dropped for five consecutive months — another indicator of flagging prospects.
Then came news that prices have fallen on a range of goods, from food to apartments, raising the specter that China could be on the brink of so-called deflation, or sustained drops in prices, a harbinger of anemic commercial activity.
And in a sign of deepening distress in China’s housing market — the intersection of finance, construction and household wealth — a major real estate developer called Country Garden missed payments on its bonds and estimated it lost up to $7.6 billion in the first half of the year.
For Chinese workers and households, these events added up to trouble. Around the globe, a weakening Chinese economy signaled a shrinking of demand for major goods — from soybeans harvested in Brazil, to beef raised in the United States, to luxury goods made in Italy. It spelled less appetite for oil, minerals and other building blocks of industry.
“The slowdown in China is definitely going to weigh on the global economic outlook,” said Larry Hu, Hong Kong-based chief China economist for Macquarie, the Australian financial services firm. “Because China is now the No. 1 commodity consumer in the world, the impact is going to be pretty, pretty big.”
Over the past decade, China has been the source of more than 40% of global economic growth, compared with 22% for the United States and 9% from the 20 countries that use the euro currency, according to recent analysis from BCA Research.
Adding to the worry is the widespread sense that Chinese authorities are limited in their options to reinvigorate the economy, given mounting debts now estimated at 282% of national output — more than that of the United States.
The government has outlined spending programs aimed at spurring consumers to spend and businesses to invest. But the details have been opaque, while leaving the impression that local governments will be stuck with the bill. Local governments are at the center of concerns about the debt crisis. They had borrowed aggressively for years to finance the construction of roads, bridges and industrial parks.
All of this is playing out as China’s ruling Communist Party tries to transition from an economy powered by state-directed investments in infrastructure and exports to one led by domestic consumer spending.
The old model has run its course. It worked remarkably well for the two decades spanning the millennium, when the government financed ports, electrical grids and other basic works for an export-led factory boom.
At the same time, private entrepreneurs started some of the world’s more innovative and valuable technology companies. In more recent years, many have been constrained by a regulatory crackdown overseen by President Xi Jinping.
In the rest of the world — and especially in the United States — China’s staggering export growth, combined with the loss of domestic factory jobs, has set off conflicts over trade.
The Trump administration imposed across-the-board tariffs on Chinese imports. The Biden administration has continued that policy, adding prohibitions on investment in key Chinese sectors such as advanced computer chips. President Joe Biden intensified that campaign in signing an executive order Wednesday barring investment in industries that can bolster China’s military.
On Thursday, Biden referred to China’s economic vulnerabilities as “a ticking time bomb,” adding, “When bad folks have problems, they do bad things.”
Xi has previously accused the United States of running a campaign aimed at suppressing China’s development.
Faced with hostilities between Washington and Beijing and chastened during the pandemic by the difficulties moving products from Chinese factories to retailers in North America and Europe, multinational companies have shifted factory orders to countries like Vietnam, India and Mexico.
For Chinese policymakers, the alterations to the geography of international commerce have added urgency to the transition toward an economy centered on domestic spending power.
Still, those designs were halted by the pandemic. The government imposed draconian restrictions on business and freedom of movement, locking down whole cities.
The lifting of those controls in December, following an extraordinary series of public protests, was widely anticipated as a catalyst for consumer spending.
But consumer spending has been weak — so weak that China’s National Bureau of Statistics recently halted the release of data that drew attention to the economy’s problems.
Chinese households have long been some of the most prodigious savers on Earth, owing to the fact that social safety nets are meager. Over the first half of this year, total household deposits in the Chinese banking system grew by some 12 trillion Chinese yuan (about $1.7 trillion), the largest expansion in a decade.
But the increased savings, as well as the weakness of investment and consumer spending, appears to reflect a general erosion of public faith. During the pandemic, policy lurched from total lockdown to no controls — what economist Adam Posen recently called “economic long COVID.”
For China’s consumers, some of the extra ardor for stashing cash reflects the widespread recognition that real estate is a story full of unhappy endings. Decades of overinvestment by developers has yielded entire cities full of empty apartment blocks. As prices plunge, developers are halting projects midstream, leaving the skeletons of high-rises serving as monuments to a speculative bonanza gone awry.
This basic story has provoked comparisons to Japan, where the bursting of a speculative real estate bubble in the early 1990s led the country into three decades of decline.
Central to Japan’s slide was deflation, a term that sends shivers up the spines of economists.
Deflation works its way into a society’s basic expectations, destroying incentives to spend, expand businesses or hire workers, given the likelihood that everything will be cheaper later. What is, for individuals, a rational thrift metastasizes into decline for society.
Most economists think China will avoid that fate. Falling prices may soon reverse. And the government appears to have moderated its attacks on successful private businesses.
After years of demonizing private entrepreneurs, the government has lately signaled a pivot to a more “pro-growth, pro-business mindset,” said Bruce Pang, chief economist for Greater China at JLL, a real estate and investment management firm in Hong Kong. “The key policy priority will be how to boost domestic demand.”
In the most optimistic scenario, the government will engineer a gradual transition to slower growth, trading factory jobs for those in services, while containing the size of real estate losses.
Yet if the debt hanging over China’s economy limits the potency of the government’s response, that could bring about the worst fears: a plunge in housing prices, followed by expensive rescues of strapped lenders, and an unruly exodus of money.
That outcome most unnerves government officials, given that it could bring joblessness, business insolvencies and social strife.
Such images undergird the assumption that the government will intensify its efforts to stimulate the economy, even as doing so may exacerbate the foundational threats to the economy, creating fresh debts.
Yet even if the government succeeds in overseeing a gradual economic slowdown, some see mounting challenges that threaten to provoke significant volatility.
The continued shifting of factory work away from China, along with the focus on centering the economy on domestic consumption, is likely to push down wages and household wealth. And even in a country controlled by a single unelected party, the loss of faith of large numbers of people may bring turbulence.
China’s exports and imports collectively make up 40% of its total economic output, Yasheng Huang, an economics professor at MIT’s Sloan School of Management, noted at a conference in May. Many of China’s imports are components for exported factory goods. So the more that China’s exports drop, the more that imports do, too — a feedback loop of diminishing fortunes.
That drags down jobs and incomes, Huang said. “There’s no way it is a happy story.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Exports; Global economy; Decades; Households

Business indexing term: Subject: Exports Global economy

Location: China; New York; United States--US; Japan; Hong Kong China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Economic Conditions And Trends; Metals And Minerals; Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Posen, Adam S; United States Politics And Government; Engines; Factories And Manufacturing; India; Business; Movies; Banking And Financial Institutions; United States; Renminbi (Currency); Relocation Of Business; International Trade And World Market; Consumer Behavior; Corporations; Politics And Government; Goodman, Peter S; Credit And Debt; Eurozone; Europe; Quarantines; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); South Korea; Euro (Currency); Italy; Communist Party Of Vietnam; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Foreign Investments; National Bureau Of Statistics (China); Brazil; Executive Orders And Memorandums; Vietnam; Stocks And Bonds; Deflation (Economics); Steel And Iron; Japan; Real Estate (Commercial); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Mexico; North America; Trump, Donald J; Mines And Mining; Communist Party Of India (Marxist); Australia; Sloan School Of Management; United States Economy; Xi Jinping; Campaign Finance; Infrastructure (Public Works); Hong Kong; Luxury Goods And Services; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Country Garden

Title: China’s Stalling Economy Puts the World on Notice

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-11T22:52:43Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849215298

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-stalling-economy-puts-world-on-notice/docview/2849215298/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

2 Big Names In Fashion Are Merging: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-big-names-fashion-are-merging/docview/2848650328/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The two fashion conglomerates, Tapestry and Capri Holdings, generate about $ 12 billion in combined revenue.
Tapestry, the fashion company that owns Coach and Kate Spade, said on Thursday that it had acquired Capri Holdings, the parent of Versace and Michael Kors, for about $ 8.5 billion in cash, as consolidation in the luxury market gathers pace.
The deal between two large American companies with familiar luxury brands comes as high-end retailers look for growth amid signs that U.S. consumers are pulling back on discretionary spending. It also comes as the most dominant luxury players jostle to snap up brands and broaden their portfolios.
Combined, the two groups would generate about $ 12 billion in revenue, bringing brands like Coach, Kate Spade and Stuart Weitzman together with Versace, Jimmy Choo and Michael Kors. Once the transaction is completed, they will operate under the name Tapestry.
The move is the boldest effort yet by American fashion executives to build a collective that might be able to compete with the might of European giants like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Kering, which owns brands like Gucci and Saint Laurent.
The chief executives of Tapestry and Capri stressed that the combination would bring their handbags, shoes and apparel to a broader consumer base and allow them to tap more resources. The acquisition will help expand Tapestry's reach in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, while Capri's brands will gain more exposure in Asia.
The companies said the merger also presented an opportunity to increase their direct-to-consumer businesses and save $ 200 million in operating and supply-chain costs within three years.
"It represents a very compelling financial opportunity," Joanne Crevoiserat, the chief executive of Tapestry, said in an interview. "We're finding with this combination an opportunity to deepen our engagement with luxury customers on the high end."
On a call with investors on Thursday, analysts focused their questions on how the two companies would integrate and the timeline for the cost savings that would result. Executives emphasized that pooling resources would allow their brands to share digital and marketing abilities, transportation and supply chains, a strategy that is often referred to as synergies.
"Synergies are always easier said than done, so this will clearly bear monitoring," Simeon Siegel, a retail analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note to clients. "But if there were ever two companies to enjoy synergies, Tapestry and Capri align."
Executives expressed confidence at being able to integrate their brands.
"By joining with Tapestry, we will have greater resources and capabilities to accelerate the expansion of our global reach while preserving the unique DNA of our brands," John D. Idol, Capri's chief executive, said in a statement.
Tapestry said it would pour money into marketing and branding as it tied the two conglomerates together.
"The consumers should see and feel the brand as they always have, perhaps feeling a little bit more innovative and relevant as we put them on a digital platform so that they communicate," Ms. Crevoiserat said. "But they should not feel the brand differently in terms of the brand DNA."
Tapestry's stock fell nearly 16 percent on Thursday. Capri's shares soared almost 56 percent.
The deal will be financed through debt, which Tapestry could "rapidly pay down," the company's chief financial officer said in a statement. In its most recent quarter, Tapestry's net sales increased 13 percent, while Capri's revenue in its most recent quarter fell 10.5 percent.
"The potential deal comes at a time when luxury is facing something of a slowdown, especially in the North American market," noted Neil Saunders, the managing director at GlobalData, a retail consulting firm. "This has put pressure on Tapestry and Capri, both of which are now looking to international markets to bolster growth. There is more security in embarking on bold international plans as a larger entity."
The deal also gives Tapestry more cachet in the luxury market, analysts said.
"Tapestry has long eyed becoming a bona fide 'house of luxury"' similar to Kering and LVMH, said Craig Johnson, the president of the consultancy Customer Growth Partners. "But its current brands are near-luxe rather than true luxe. Capri gives Tapestry a toehold in the true luxe world, which even though Kors is by far Capri's largest brand, over time Versace may well be the real 'jewel in the crown."'
The deal was the latest in the global luxury industry in recent months. This week, the upmarket Australian fashion house Zimmerman was bought by the private equity firm Advent in a deal worth $ 1 billion. Last month, Kering said it would buy a stake in Valentino, bringing another large fashion label under its tent.
And speculation continues to swirl around a possible sale of Bergdorf Goodman to LVMH, the world's largest luxury group by sales. Bergdorf's department store on Fifth Avenue in New York is across the street from the glittering flagship boutique of Tiffany & Company, the jewelry house that LVMH bought for $ 15.8 billion in 2021.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Consumers; Fashion designers; Acquisitions & mergers; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Acquisitions & mergers Equity stake

Company / organization: Name: Gianni Versace SpA; NAICS: 315250, 334519; Name: Capri Holdings Ltd; NAICS: 551112; Name: Tapestry Inc; NAICS: 551112

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/10/business/tapestry-capri-merger-luxury-fashion.html

Title: 2 Big Names In Fashion Are Merging:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 11, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848650328

Document URL: https ://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-big-names-fashion-are-merging/docview/2848650328/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2846773270/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I'll be visiting Europe for the first time this summer and need advice for stylish walking shoes. I mainly wear dresses, but if I wear ballet flats while walking all day, my feet tend to swell up. Do you have any suggestions for a more closed shoe that wouldn't out me as l'américaine?
Jennifer, Seattle By your shoes, they shall know you. I'm not entirely kidding. Shoes may not be the windows to the soul, but for a long time they were the source of national stereotype.
Germans, it was said, were the travelers in sandals and white athletic socks. You could tell an Italian banker because he was the one in brown shoes, no matter what color his suit. The British, on the other hand, went around intoning "no brown in town." American tourists wore sneakers.
But that was then! Between the explosion of sneaker culture, the "fashionization" of Birkenstocks and the general rise of comfort clothing, those old lines have started to blur. If Hakeem Jeffries, the House minority leader, can wear sneakers to a meeting in the Oval Office, and Serena Williams can wear them to the Met Gala, Americans can wear them in Europe. Europeans too.
Indeed, sneakers and Birks are by no means the giveaways they once were. They are pretty much an integral part of every wardrobe, not to mention every designer collection on Avenue Montaigne. So don't be so quick to dismiss them.
According to Dana Thomas, an author and Times contributor who has lived in Paris for more than two decades, the only footwear that screams "tourist" is Crocs. Also, those shoes so beloved of the outdoor recreation world, Chacos and Keens.
It's not that Chacos and Keens necessarily identify you as American, but they definitely identify you as belonging to a certain tribe of crunchy nonurbanites. Or wannabe nonurbanites. Even if brands like Gucci had a brief flirtation with the whole sector, it's like walking around with a sign over your head flashing, "Which way to Mont Blanc?"
Once upon a time, generalizations could be made about entire genres of shoes and those who wore them, but the situation is now much more nuanced. Sneakers remain the most comfortable footwear for extended city rambles, and to reject them wholesale is to bite the hand that feeds you (or to blister the foot that walks you). But while wearing sneakers will no longer brand you as a tourist, the kind of sneaker you wear does matter.
Jon Caramanica, the resident sneakerhead of The Times, notes that sneaker silhouettes tend to be slimmer in Europe than in the United States, so swap your high-tops for low-top running shoes.
The Adidas Samba or Onitsuka Tiger Mexico 66 tends to trigger thoughts of cool-girl tribes, whereas New Balance 550s send the mind to advertising or creative directors. Vejas spark assumptions of eco-warrior chic. And then there are Supergas, which are favored by both Chiara Ferragni (the Italian equivalent of a Kardashian) and Catherine, the Princess of Wales.
Yup: Italian influencer royalty and British royalty. What more inspiration could you need to put your best foot forward?
Every week in the Open Thread newsletter, The Times's chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, answers a reader's fashion-related question. Sign up at nytimes.com/newsletters.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Athletic shoes; Shoes & boots

Location: Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/04/pageoneplus/07a3_openthread.html

Title: Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846773270

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2846773270/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gucci Mane: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gucci-mane/docview/2846428232/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I remember buying my first $ 5 cassette tape, 2 Live Crew, from the flea market in Alabama. I was like 6 or 7. I didn't even know what the music was about, that cover was just so raunchy to me. My mama found the tape and played it on the porch in front of her friends to embarrass me -- like, "Look what Radric's listening to." But I only bought it for the cover.
I moved to Atlanta when I was 9. My brother was listening to the gritty underground Atlanta stuff, the gritty Memphis stuff, New Orleans, so that's what I gravitated towards -- Kingpin Skinny Pimp, Triple Six Mafia, the Hot Boys and Master P. By the time I started trying to finance my first tape, maybe '99 or 2000, those were the people I could relate to -- B.G., Project Pat. Like, OK, this dude just got out of jail, and everybody in the hood listens to that. I'm going through the same things at the same time.
I didn't feel like Project Pat was the best rapper, but he made me feel him. I'm like, can't be Fabolous or Lil Wayne, but I can do this. I was late in the game, but I didn't have to be scared to try. I was going to spring break in Daytona, and it was the whole summer of Project Pat and Big Tymers. I started doing the stuff they were rapping about -- like, I'm going to be the CD that I'm listening to.
That's really how this started. It wasn't even a love of hip-hop; I'm a hustler. I'm like, damn, I really don't want to sell dope all the time. It's too risky. If Jermaine Dupri can put out Kris Kross, Birdman ain't really a good rapper and I got a little money -- I can get in this.
I was always thinking, none of this matters if I go to the club and I ain't got no movement. I'd seen rappers try to get their music out, but they looked lame and no one took them seriously. I was like, "How can I get the whole apartments on Bouldercrest to come with me?" I knew I was popular, and I leveraged that. It really was calculated.
My first album came out in 2005. 50 Cent dropped his in 2003. The stuff he was talking about, I was really having those beefs. It ain't even nothing to glorify, but that's what was going on. That was my soundtrack, and it emboldened me to talk with urgency about the stuff I'm doing.
I was heavily in the streets, and I was heavily paranoid. I was riding back and forth to Alabama trapping, and I had two CDs -- Lil Jon's CD, "Kings of Crunk," and "Get Rich or Die Tryin'." That was my inspiration: "I just have to get past this stage." I moved fully back to Atlanta in 2004, and maybe two weeks later, I made "Black Tee."
'06 Gucci, "Chicken Talk," I feel like that defined me. The determination in that tape, for it to even come to life, it's serious. It brings back memories every time I listen to it. I just know the person that I was then was bound to blow up. I felt like, "This is my only shot." If that tape didn't get attention, if people didn't think that tape was dope, I probably would've just said, "[Expletive] music, I'm going to be in the streets."
The '06 "Hard to Kill" album that they put out with all those classics on it -- the label didn't advance me no money, we had no relationship and it went sour from that point. But I spent my own money on this tape and put it out myself.
I had just got out of jail, a 26-year-old guy trying to be an artist, and I was definitely in the hood -- one foot in, one foot out. I just was whoever I was 24/7, a lot of times to my detriment. But I didn't want to incarcerate myself, so I was trying to talk in code: "I'm like a rooster in a cartoon, I say I need a brick or two/half an onion worth of extra, ask me who I gave it to/raw basin' Willy, let him vacuum up the Bentley Coupe." All that was so real, I was just trying not to get indicted and go to jail for it. It was urgent, and there's a cleverness, too.
My peak came later because I was locked up. But the business was in a better place when I got out, and I benefited from that. People would never think that a rapper in his 40s would be as in demand. But I'm making way more money. I never could travel until I was 37, 38 years old. I'm glad I don't have to do a show in the hood all the time, like I was. I know the chitlin circuit. I'm so glad I got over a lot of hurdles, where now I can do a show internationally and get the type of money I felt like I deserved.
Being in Iceland was definitely one of those moments. I had a concert at a festival. The sun didn't even go down the whole day. I never would have thought that it would be something I'd like. I used to tell people, "I don't want to go nowhere but East Atlanta and right back to the studio." But damn, it was way better than sitting in that cell.
Photograph GUCCI MANE (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIA BEVERLY) This article appeared in print on page AR33.

Subject: Rap music; Listening

Location: Alabama; United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

Company / organization: Name: Project Pat; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/arts/06hiphop-Gucci-Mane.html

Title: Gucci Mane:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.33

Publication year: 2023

Publicationdate: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2846428232

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gucci-mane/docview/2846428232/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream C ollection

____________________________________________________________

Bonus Tracks: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bonus-tracks/docview/2846428219/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: CHANGES MADE HERE WILL NOT BE REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT. PLEASE MAKE ANY FIXES IN THE FREEBIRD! (SEE ALICIA)
TEASER: Pitbull on Tony Robbins
HED: Pitbull's Path to Motivational Speaking
Tony Robbins was my mother's superhero. When she would take me to school, she'd always play Tony Robbins. I wasn't trying to listen to Tony Robbins. I was trying to listen to 2 Live Crew, N.W.A and Poison Clan. But there was one story subliminally that always stuck in my mind that Tony Robbins was speaking about, which was Colonel Sanders and how many times it took him to sell that recipe for Kentucky Fried Chicken. It took him more than 1,000 times. So in my mind as a kid, I'm like, you keep trying.
That always stayed in my mind. Boom, fast forward, I was utilizing that same mentality of music. Everywhere I was going, there was no, no, no way. It's stupid. It's impossible. So I just kept going, kept going, kept going until somebody finally didn't necessarily believe in me or my talents. They believed in my hustle, they believed in my grind, they believed in my work ethic.
So as my career starts to get to a whole other level now, it's a global career, I somehow, some way get connected to Tony Robbins. I speak to him about my story and what he meant to my mother and how he's been a part of my life by default.
We become good friends, business partners, he's a mentor. And then he said, "What do you think about speaking at one of these engagements that I have?" I said, "I would love to." And we tried it -- I loved it. And he gave me the thumbs up. And that's basically what opened the door for speaking engagements. I'm a big believer in the law of attraction. I don't like people with negative. I ain't trying to hear all that. Victims, I don't want to hear that. I want to hear how we're going to figure this out. No problems. Just solutions.
TEASER:Is Hip-Hop Lying About Its Age?
HED: Is Hip-Hop Really Only 50?
Boots Riley: I must have been in third grade or something when we were hearing Sugarhill Gang. This is in Oakland, and I had just recently moved from Detroit, and there was somebody else that was from the Midwest, too. He turned to me and said, "There's a hambone song on the radio." I knew exactly what he was saying. Hambone was something that my older brother and his friends would do, where they're slapping, making a beat -- very much like later people just beat on tables in the cafeteria -- and they're rapping against each other. It was all about jokes and saying stuff that rhymed that was insulting the other person.
In Detroit, the Black population there is mainly from the South. When that record hit the world, Black people didn't say, what is this newfangled thing? I mean, of course everyone loved it, but it was something that existed. I'm usually saying hip-hop started in Congo Square in New Orleans in the 1800s. There's this record of prison recordings from the '40s, '50s and '60s called "Get Your Ass in the Water and Swim Like Me." Like, you listen to the Pigmeat Markham song from the '60s, "Here Come the Judge," and it sounded just like Sugarhill Gang. We don't talk about any other music like it was invented, right? It's always an outgrowth of something.
There are other things too. When I was hanging out in Newark in the late '90s, they were telling me about this thing that was a big thing in Newark, which was to flip on mattresses to music. There was so much trash that had been piled up in the '70s, that it became almost a sport, a thing where people would flip to the music. You see it show up in Lauryn Hill's line "Flipping in the ghetto on a dirty mattress." Basically that was like their breaking.
What I saw happening in the early '90s that I only could kind of articulate later was there were a bunch of people going to universities that were rappers in the '70s and '80s and were defining it, saying this is when it started, this is how it happened. And then writers came out of those universities and started talking about it in those terms.
TEASER: DMC on Public Enemy
HED: DMC's Fateful Run-In With Public Enemy at Dapper Dan's
I didn't care about the money starting out. I just put it all in the bank. To this day I can only speculate how much money I made, but my biggest purchase back then -- it had to be 1988, I bought a $ 50,000 sound system for my monster truck that you could hear from 50 blocks. The infamous story is I'm coming over the Triborough Bridge because I'm headed to Dapper Dan's. As soon as I get off the bridge from Queens at 1st Ave., right there on 125th Street, Dapper Dan's is five flights up. Everybody would go to Dapper Dan's -- Mike Tyson, Eric B. & Rakim, Salt-N-Pepa. But on that day Chuck D and Hank Shocklee were there, and as I'm driving up, the ground and the walls start shaking.
People are coming out all the stores like, what the hell? Is it an earthquake? Nah, it's DMC in his K5 Chevy Blazer souped up like a Hulk monster truck, and I'm blasting Public Enemy's "Don't Believe the Hype." I pull up and Chuck and Hank come out. What was important about that moment is P.E. was unsure if they should release "Don't Believe the Hype" as their next single. So here's DMC, the King of Rock, pulling up in this monster truck blasting a $ 50,000 sound system. They come out and they look at each other. The God, DMC, just gave them the verification that they should release "Don't Believe the Hype."
But here's what's crazy about that. This $ 50,000 sound system was so ahead of its time that it never worked. After that the whole system blew out. So every Thanksgiving and every birthday I would go to my mother and father's house. Until the day my father passed away everybody would be festive and getting their drink on, and he would hit the glass and announce, "Let me tell you what my son Darryl did. This guy bought a $ 50,000 sound system that never worked!" And everybody would just laugh and get on me about that.
But I never really cared about the money. Now when I get asked, "DMC, is there anything about money you would tell the young DMC back then?" my advice is I wouldn't have never spent so much money on drugs.
TEASER: Krayzie Bone on Kurtis Blow
HED: Is That ... Kurtis Blow at the Lemonade Stand?
Krayzie Bone: I'm real cool with Kurtis Blow. I came up listening to Kurtis Blow, so for me to be able to get him on the line any time I want to, that's crazy. We was first coming out, like, after our second album -- this is like '97, '98. We had like little apartments in Los Angeles. And a lot of celebrities used to stay in this apartment complex. We pull up one day, and we see Kurtis Blow out here with his son. So we pulled through the gate, right up on his spot, trippin'. His little son had a lemonade stand and Kurtis Blow said, "I'm trying to teach him business right now." You know what I'm saying? "Man! Kurtis Blow, what's up?" He like, "Oh, what's up Bone?" He knew who we was and everything. We jump out the car, you know what I'm saying? We dapped up and we was like, "Man, you live here?" He was like, "Yeah, I stay here." And we like, started like kicking it with him, going to his house. He would come to our apartment and we just built a bond with him, and we been knowing him ever since then.
TEASER: Jay-Z Joins the Revolution
HED: How Jay-Z Joined dead prez's Revolution
stic: We were working on our "Revolutionary but Gangsta" album and this writer, she got our demo. She wasn't really supposed to have it, but she had it. She was working on a project with Jay-Z, and while she would be at his crib, she was playing "Hell Yeah" so much. Jay didn't know who we was, he just knew he'd been liking the song. So one day he goes, "Yo, I like that pizza song." And she goes, "You don't know nothing about that," yadda yadda. And then he's like, "You think they'll do something with me and let me get on that with them?" But when she told us and asked us, we were like, "Jay-Z? Hell yeah!" No pun intended. Like, that's Jay-Z.
He just went in the lab and knocked it out and sent it back to us. We done worked with a lot of the greats -- you know, Nas, you name it -- but working with Jay was so perfect. Just the integrity he showed. Like not only did he jump right on what he said he was gonna do, but when he was finished with it, he was like, "Do y'all like it? Do you need me to change anything?" And then he signed the paperwork and gave it to us.
He wasn't on no funny nothing. He was like, y'all can have that. And that helped us leverage a situation, you know, because free and clear, we had ownership of a Jay-Z verse in our negotiation. That was some real boss [expletive] that he did that he ain't have to do.
TEASER: Lil Bibby on Juice WRLD
HED: Juice WRLD (1998-2019), Rap's Rock Superstar
Lil Bibby: Juice's mom didn't let him listen to rap. So he listened to all these rock bands. A lot of those bands I don't even know! He listened to the Fall Out Boys. Then graduated into rap, so he had those rock melodies and mixed it with rap.
From the beginning I saw how he was able to record. I think he's probably the best recording artist that I ever seen. He could do like four songs in one take. Ju' was just a superstar. He never really cared what nobody thought of him, he never really tried too hard. He never really thought about his image -- he just was him. Just exuded confidence. You know how most artists try to get attention? It was just everything natural.
TEASER: Vanilla Ice on MC Hammer
HED: The End of the MC Hammer-Vanilla Ice Alliance
Vanilla Ice: You have to understand, hip-hop had gone through these phases of starting off really cheesy. It wasn't cool, it wasn't gangster. And then it became gangster. Then a commercial rapper comes along and changes the game: MC Hammer.
I had played a few shows with Hammer. We became friends. He was a good guy. I saw him and he says, "Hey, man, I'm doing this tour and I want to bring you out as an opening act."
This is right when "To the Extreme" came out, and the phenomenon just lit on fire, like, with gasoline. So every interview MC Hammer did was questions about Vanilla Ice. He was, at first, loving it. "Yeah, he's on tour with me." All the shows were packed, sold out everywhere.
He had the No. 1 record when I started on tour with him, and my record bumped his off. My merch was outselling his. I guess he got upset about it. And when he was signing merch, he got to a point where he goes, "I'm not signing any more Vanilla Ice merch."
So he took my sound.
I'm, like, "Man, I just played a show -- why was the volume so low? And why were all the lights off?" I walk out to the soundboard and I go, "Bro, what is all this tape?" You know what a fader is, where it goes from zero when you turn the volume up, and it says "master volume"? He had tape on the thing, and it said, "Ice level."
"MC Hammer came out here and told me I can't raise your volume level any more than this. I'll lose my job." I went to Hammer himself. And they wouldn't let me talk to him. "He's busy, man. He ain't have time for you, Ice."
Next day I come to my show, in a full sold-out stadium, and my dressing room is the bathroom. You have enough to fit two football teams in this entire arena, and you put me in the bathroom! My record is No. 1 on Billboard, and I'm in a bathroom?
He was mad at me for knocking his song off No. 1 and just being Vanilla Ice, I guess.
TEASER: Gucci Mane's Favorite Mixtape
HED: Gucci Mane's Make-or-Break Mixtape Moment
'06 Gucci, "Chicken Talk," I feel like that defined me. The determination in that tape, for it to even come to life, it's serious. It brings back memories every time I listen to it. I just know the person that I was then was bound to blow up. I felt like, "This is my only shot."
If that tape didn't get attention, if people didn't think that tape was dope, I probably would've just said, "[Expletive] music, I'm going to be in the streets."
Not the '06 "Hard to Kill" album that they put out with all those classics on it. The label didn't advance me no money, we had no relationship and it went sour from that point. But I spent my own money on this tape and put it out myself. I went back to my high school days.
People always have issues with their label and it [expletive] their career. I was like, "I'm not going to let that happen. I'm finna make this 'Chicken Talk."' I had just got out of jail, and I was definitely in the hood -- one foot in, one foot out.
But I didn't want to incarcerate myself, so I was trying to talk in code: "I'm like a rooster in a cartoon, I say I need a brick or two/half an onion worth of extra, ask me who I gave it to/raw basin' Willy, let him vacuum up the Bentley Coupe." All that was so real, I was just trying not to get indicted and go to jail for it. It was urgent, and there's a cleverness, too.
I ain't trying to be funny, but DJ Burn One was nothing to "Chicken Talk." I don't have anything against Burn One, but the only thing I cared about was, "I know my songs are good, don't talk over it." All that New York talking, I'm not really into that. And he didn't talk over it. That's really it. Just let the songs play.
But you're going to press 'em up and help me get 'em out? Cool, let's do it. I don't want these songs to just live on Zay's hard drive. Zaytoven would give me studio time and make his house available to me without charging me. That's my guy.
But the D.J.s, I don't know them. I can't tell you, really to this day, a lot about them, and they don't know much about me. But I did know the value of having someone spread my name out there. That was a cheap way. And I survived.
TEASER: Q-Tip on Slick Rick
HED: Slick Rick's Grown-Man Vulnerability
Q-Tip: I loved Slick Rick for the subject matter. The way he chose to tell a story, his humor. It was just very beyond his years. It made me want to step my game up, but also it made me feel like I could fit in, because my voice back then was even weirder than it is now. Not that Slick Rick's voice was weird -- it was atypical.
On "The Moment I Feared," this is what he said:
Well I'm sitting on my lunch break grinning my teeth
It's the last day of the week, boy, what a relief
My muscles kinda ache, they felt rigid and stiff
So I looked around and I smoked this big fat spliff
Now I'm happy as can be, I'm in this pothead spell
I put some Visine in my eyes so that no one can tell
It's 12:55, almost time for the bell
Put the breath mints in the mouth so that the mouth don't smell
It's just so not teenager [expletive].
The salvo of that verse is they're going to a club -- "Boogie Down was performing, hey, they ain't no joke/And a bunch of Brooklyn kids was looking all down my throat/Was it my big chains with the big plates on them?/Then they rolled on me and told me to run 'em."
So in all that you get a blue-collar, everyday man. You get going out to the club. You get extravagance with the jewelry. You get violence. But the key thing is the whole song is about how he was in a vulnerable moment. And with the vulnerability, which he was so brilliant at, he was also self-effacing, right beside his brilliance and his ego.
Everybody at that time was, you know, basically superheroes. Dudes was, "Notorious, I'll crush you like a jelly bean," or they were taking "Seven M.C.s, put 'em in a line." Or, you know, even if we're uplifting, it's "Bass, how low can you go?" It was this very stern machismo or this idea of what manhood is, which was great, it's nothing to pooh-pooh at.
But on the other side of that, you had somebody who embodied those things, but still had the maturity and the honesty within the music to display that vulnerability.
TEASER: 50 Cent on Baby Oil
HED: Why 50 Cent Got All Oiled Up
When there's no plan B, you looking at everything and saying, "I gotta figure out what's gonna work or what's not gonna work." There's points where you're laughing at a guy and then you look and it's not funny no more. Like Juvenile. We would laugh at him on "400 Degreez." He was standing in front of the yellow Corvette and he had like a little bit too much baby oil on. He was shiny. We're laughing like, this [expletive] is country. And when them numbers came back, listen, I said, "Get me some baby oil!"
TEASER: Earl Sweatshirt on Hip-Hop Timing
HED: An Earl Sweatshirt Music Lesson
What's happened is people's relationship to the beat has changed. Kids now dance faster than the beat because kids have been learning how to dance on their front cameras. And so with their movements, they meet the beat at where it's gonna be. They don't let the beat direct the thing, you feel me?
The generation before, especially coming out of the '90s, all that is behind the beat. Everything is coming off the back of the beat. Like how Kurupt is rapping on "Cali Iz Active" -- he's finishing the word after the snare comes. Kids now, it's the polar opposite. You're racing, you feel me? 'Cause you want to finish what you're saying before the beat, so you can, like, dab. You create the space on the beat to hit your quan. Any place where there's a disconnect between old and young people is right there.
TEASER: Cardi B on Shmoney
HED: The Perks of Fame, According to Cardi B
I went from $ 20,000 a show and then after "Bodak Yellow," I went to 100. And then like two, three months later I went to 200, 300, 400, 500. Then in 2018, I was getting booked for like $ 700,000, $ 800,000. And then I went to millions. I haven't put out an album in five years and the numbers just keep going up.
When I bought my mom a house, that meant a lot to me. When I bought my house with my husband, that meant a lot to me. When I bought another house ... damn, I bought a lot of houses.
But it also do be the little things, right? I just bought this playground set for my kids and it's huge. It looks insane. And I spent in the 20 thousands for it. Of course it's not my biggest purchase ever, but this is what I work hard for, for my kids. Overly spending on your kids doesn't mean that you're a great parent, but it makes you feel good. It makes you feel like that you're living your childhood dream.
But it's everything -- the people that you meet, the access that you have. It's from the biggest things to the smallest things, you know what I'm saying? Like being able to go to Carbone whenever you want. Being able to skip lines everywhere is the greatest thing.
TEASER: 'Banned in the U.S.A.'
HED: 2 Live Crew's First Amendment Fights
Uncle Luke: It was actually three trials. We got no support at all from the industry. The parody trial, I was there to defend free speech. I was there to defend the Constitution in a hip-hop form, knowing that it was only a case because it was versus a hip-hop artist and company. My crazy ass was like, I'm gonna take the fight on. And then the obscenity case, when they deemed the record obscene, I think they realized, you can't shut this down, so let's drain him by tying him up in court. I eventually got it overturned in a court of appeals.
I could have left that on the books and been like, OK, that's precedent. But I was looking at it from the standpoint of I'm fighting for hip-hop. Because if I let this be the standard and it's on the books as case law, then they can use that against any other artist that say what they want to say on a record.
I always said these people that are not supporting me are idiots. The industry, they had a whole thing going on against me. People in the industry would go on television shows and be like, no, that's not hip-hop. We not supporting that. That's trash music. So they were saying the same things that all these other people were saying in court. They denounced it. It wasn't no cavalry coming.
There was a moment when I thought the Grammys was gonna be like, thank you. The industry was kinda getting behind me a little, more so the white industry, not necessarily the Black part of it.
So the guy gets up there and says, at this moment, we have a person that's fighting this fight for free speech, and nobody should censor our music. And I want to just honor this person because they're putting up the fight for all of us in the industry. And then the guy said, "Madonna." I've not been to the Grammys ever since.
When I did "Banned in the U.S.A.," MTV got behind it. I did "Banned in the U.S.A." at the MTV Awards in 1990. I felt appreciation, you know, being backstage with the other artists and they embracing you. One of the first people to ever come up to me and say "Thank you, I believe in what you're doing" -- outside of Bruce Springsteen, just talking to him over the phone saying that we want to do the song -- was Sinead O'Connor. We just sat there and talked the whole night until it was time for me to go on. To see that people are hearing you and supporting you, even though you might not hear them, it was big. And then we got onstage and did the song, it was such an emotional moment. Flavor Flav came to the stage and gave me a big hug, and all the other rappers came to the stage, and that was the moment of "We with you, we're feeling what you feeling."
TEASER: LL Cool J Meets Paul Simon
HED: LL Cool J Brings Paul Simon to His Basement
Paul Simon came to my basement in 1987, and we went and visited a high school. He's from Queens, too. I'm not saying Paul Simon was like some hip-hop dude that was out there promoting it, but he definitely was open-minded and willing to embrace it.
I'm gonna be honest with you, I didn't even know who Paul Simon was, bro. He came to my house, we did some interview, and we're gonna visit the high school. I love this guy now, he's amazing. But then, I didn't know. This is literally how I announced him. I was like, "Yo, I don't know if you know him or not y'all, but this is my man, Paul Simon." The high school went crazy. I was standing there like, oh [expletive]! I ain't know who he was! Like, what's going on?
They told me he was important. I respected him. And I went and listened to his music. Matter of fact, my mother had some of his music in the house, "Bridge Over Troubled Water" with Simon & Garfunkel. But I was listening to hip-hop, I was in a totally different world. The furthest I was going that way would be the O'Jays and Harold Melvin & the Blue Notes, but I never got to those albums. But he was a very cool dude, And I respect the fact that at that time he was a superstar, and he came to my house. Not to my block -- my house. In my basement.
Photograph Public Enemy in 1987. The group released "Don't Believe the Hype" as a single the following year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CORIO/REDFERNS, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Two kings of Queens: Paul Simon and LL Cool J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE LANGE); MC Hammer had some problems on tour with Vanilla Ice (according to Vanilla Ice). (PHOTOGRAPH BY AFRO AMERICAN NEWSPAPERS/GADO, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (AR22); Kurtis Blow, known for his early hip-hop hits, was not previously renowned for his lemonade stands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES); Slick Rick was a master of many moods. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND BOYD/GETTY IMAGES); Juice WRLD came to rap after first becoming a rock fan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Jay-Z proved to be a diligent (and generous) collaborator when he worked with dead prez. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL PEREIRA/MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES); From left, Tony Robbins and Pitbull, friends and motivators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY (JAY-Z); GREG WATERMANN) (AR23) This article appeared in print on page AR22, AR23.

Subject: Music

Location: United States--US; Detroit Michigan

People: Jay-Z (rapper); Krayzie Bone; Blow, Kurtis

Company / organization: Name: Sugarhill Gang; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/22/arts/music/hip-hop-50-14-sidebars.html

Title: Bonus Tracks:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.22

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2846428219

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bonus-tracks/docview/2846428219/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lil Baby: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lil-baby/docview/2846428209/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jeezy and 50 Cent -- I remember my older sister had both CDs. I was born in 1994. I'm young, but I was hanging outside, so I was hanging around older guys. I'd already seen how they was living, how they was moving. The older guys was glorifying them. As I'm listening and I'm learning, it kind of shaped my life to this day, honestly.
You wanted the tank top, you wanted the money, you wanted to have that street feeling, like wherever you go, you're the man. That's what I got from Jeezy and 50 Cent.
I remember being 10, 11, I used to go on YouTube at my grandma's house all day. I'd write the lyrics down myself. I'd listen to the first bar, figure it out and write it down. It was local Atlanta artists. These were teen club songs. There wasn't young rappers all around the world like there is now.
Skooly with the Rich Kidz, "hundred thousand dollars in a rubber band." Different little crews -- the MDC boys had a song called "Splash Gang"; Yung Booke, "Sack Right, We Straight" went crazy; Yung Woo, "She Everything I Need." We had them little MP3 players that you clicked. Boosie's always been a favorite, too. More than anything, he was from across the tracks. We were from across the tracks. He had them real neighborhood stories.
Music's always been my inspiration, getting in my vibe, get my head going. But I didn't ever think it could do nothing for me. That's why I never did it. I got out of prison on July 1, 2016. I went to the studio that day, put the headphones on and tried something. I remember telling one of my friends, "I don't feel it yet. I'm gonna wait until I run me a bankroll up, and then I'm gonna come back."
From always reading the lyrics growing up, I knew you needed a verse and then a hook and another verse. I sat in the studio with Young Thug, Migos, Peewee Longway, KC Da Beatmonster. I had a couple little buddies with those little in-the-closet studios.
Gucci Mane has definitely been one of several mascots for Atlanta. He put it on his back. Me and Gucci met before I started rapping, from the streets. Ralo was one who gave me a sense, too, that I could do it. Because I know he's a street dude. Even though Young Thug was a street dude, I never looked at him like he was doing what I could. That was his God-given talent and gift.
Most of it was from watching; I'm a visual learner. That's why I never write nothing down. To this day, I've never really seen the writing process, where they're really writing raps. The punch-in process is freestyling, but not really freestyling. One line at a time, sometimes two lines at a time, sometimes three.
That first time I posted a song on my page and it went viral, I kinda liked that feeling. I never released the song, because it wasn't actually a whole song. Me and Marlo, "Set Up Shop," was the first song I recorded that came out. The next full song I recorded was "Option." People loved it, but it was kind of cheesy to me. When "My Dawg" came out, I was like, "This is the one."
The first time I got booked was at Club Bankhead, $ 750. Then I booked myself on Mondays at Crucial, the littest in Atlanta. We'd come in 50 deep, buying bottles. It was a wave. They were booking me for less than it cost me to come in there. But it was just the fact that we were getting paid to come. Then I was booked Thursday to Sunday, performing at little clubs, the chitlin circuit. I'd go to these new places, and the song would come on and they'd go word for word. That's how I knew every song was a hit.
I got a song like, "This month I want seven/I've been going up/next month I want 10." That was for a show, I was getting $ 7,000. That journey, it's there in my songs. I went from seven to 10 to 50 to 60, then 150 then 200 then 250 then 400 then a million. It ain't going to stop until I stop.
I'm not saying it to brag, I was actually proud of it each time. I was astonished. "I get $ 7,000 to rap!?" I couldn't have been more proud. You know what I had to do to make $ 7,000? And they'd give it to me to go in the club and have fun? Life is a dream, almost.
I look at all the people that are still in the game after 20, 30 years. I take bits and pieces from everybody, but the people I study the most are people who lasted for a long time. And I also study the people who didn't last, who went out quick. I try to see who all has been at my level and then lost it -- how they lost it, what they did wrong.
I appreciate Drake more than words can explain. But when he first called me for a Drake feature, I didn't understand music the way that I do now. I think that's why I did so good. I wasn't like, "Oh my God, it's Drake." I didn't know the real worth of it. But that's how I was able to get on there and just be free. Now it's harder for me to do a Drake record, because I know what I'm up against.
I used to be on some, "I ain't no rapper, I'm a street [expletive]." Now I'm not a rapper, I'm a businessman. As good a rapper as I need to be, I need to be a better businessman. Hip-hop has opened every door for me -- the people I meet to the way I set a trust up for my kids. Getting my record clean, setting a foundation for my family, not having to look over my shoulder.
I was just in prison in 2016. Now it's 2023 and I'm almost on the top of the world. I'm sitting in an office now and I've got 300 pieces of mail. I've been an adult and not gotten a single piece of mail. Nobody had my address; all the bills were in somebody else's name. Now I've been gone a week, I come home and I've got 300 pieces of mail.
Photograph LIL BABY (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN AMATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR32.

Subject: Rap music

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

People: Young Thug (rapper)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/arts/06hiphop-Lil-Baby.html

Title: Lil Baby:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.32

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03 624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2846428209

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lil-baby/docview/2846428209/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lil B: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lil-b/docview/2846428208/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In 2003, I wrote a book report in middle school that was about hip-hop. That's as real as it gets, man. From a middle-school me: "Hip-hop to me is an art form, a style, a genre, an influence and a lifestyle. It's a different type of music style that does not sound like any other type of music. It's like a baggy, nice, shiny type of clothing."
I'm walking the beach right now, and I've also got an article that I tore out of XXL magazine in 2005, about when Lil Wayne performed at Club Speed, Dec. 19, 2004. It's hilarious because you're talking about 500-plus attendees. Now obviously Wayne can do stadiums. That's my early motivation. Ain't it crazy later I made the XXL freshmen list? These papers I've saved have been through fires. It's very, very personal to me.
Gucci Mane, Lil Wayne, you know, they set the bar. They set the bar still to this day. It was so much inspiration out here in the Bay, too, from E-40, Too Short, Mistah F.A.B., Turf Talk, Keak da Sneak, listening to 106 [KMEL], listening to Wild 94.9. I feel like I really seen it from a unique perspective.
You've got to realize, there was a time where I was the only one doing what I was doing. I was outside at a time when people were saying music was dead, and I was still pushing.
It hurt my heart when Nas said hip-hop was dead, and I made it my mission to make sure hip-hop stayed alive. This was before the iPhone.
Just hearing my mom and my dad say they're proud of me, knowing they have seen me do my thing independently, unsigned. It's 40, Short, Master P and myself, Brandon McCartney. We did the Jive Records thing with the Pack. I've been doing my own thing ever since. I've been managing Lil B.
Soulja Boy is a real legend and an inspiration, a pioneer with the music, early on YouTube. He was really at the anime store back then, you know what I'm saying? He don't get no credit for that. It's a lot of hype around anime now, but he was going to the store early.
I always looked at myself as giving out swag. I say that humbly. There's people that have the fire that I see. I appreciate Lil Yachty -- he was always holding it down and then taking his career to a whole 'nother level, showing me what's possible, doing Sprite deals. Future, Tyler, the Creator. Chief Keef -- I was changing the game with the music video stuff on YouTube and then he took it the next level. Now I could be influenced off Playboi Carti, you know what I'm saying? And Young Thug took it to the next level.
I've still got a lot of homework to do with this hip-hop, right? I need to do my homework on De La Soul. I need to do my homework on Slum Village. I've got to really do my Public Enemy homework, you know? What's the gentleman's name -- MC Serch and his group? A little bit of Beastie Boys homework. It's so many beautiful people that's added to this genre and to the culture.
Photograph LIL B (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR28.

Subject: Music; Homework

People: Lil Wayne (rapper)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/arts/06hiphop-Lil-B.html

Title: Lil B:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.28

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2846428208

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lil-b/docview/2846428208/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Use These Fans to Keep Cool. Or to Channel Beyoncé.: [Style Desk]

Author: Reid, Hilary

Publication info: Reid, Hilary. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/use-these-fans-keep-cool-channel-beyoncé/docview/2846428171/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: They could also be used to say, "I love you." Can an air-conditioner do that?
In the 19th century, Duvelleroy, a hand fan manufacturer in Paris, published a marketing pamphlet called "The Language of the Fan." It featured a list of gestures one could make with a fan and the meaning of each.
To carry a fan open in your left hand, according to the pamphlet, signaled "come talk to me." Drawing a fan across one's cheek: "I love you." Placing a fan on one's left ear: "I wish to get rid of you."
When temperatures rise from steamy to sweltering, as they have lately in much of the world, pulling out a fan can make a more universal statement: It's way too hot out.
There are hand fans on the market for every taste. Many can get someone from the subway to the office in a moderately dry state. But just as how a fan is held can communicate something about its user, so too can the style of the fan a person holds. Whipping out the fan sold at Beyoncé's Renaissance World Tour, for instance, signals die-hard fandom.
Few options are more practical for a shvitzing city dweller than a simple paper folding fan from Pearl River ( $ 3). Sold in cheery shades of yellow and turquoise, it is cheap enough to buy in bulk and to misplace without regret. Extras can be stored in tote bags or given to a sweaty friend.
Pearl River's scented colorful wood fan ( $ 6) is just as practical and is sold in a variety of scents (melon, ylang-ylang, sakura) that would help freshen the air on a train platform full of sweaty commuters at rush hour. A bit more polished, but no less fragrant, are the fans from Miya Shinma (150 euros; about $ 166), a Japanese perfumer in Paris. The fans, which are made from bamboo and Japanese washi paper, come with a black lacquered box and are sold in three floral scents.
Those seeking refuge from heat in the air-conditioned halls of a museum may notice fans displayed as objects and in artworks like "Dancer With a Fan" by Edgar Degas and "Lady With a Fan" by Gustav Klimt. It should come as no surprise, then, that museums' gift shops are fertile terrain for fan hunting.
The Weimar-inclined may prefer the boldly patterned fan made of black and blue silk ( $ 32) from the Neue Galerie's gift shop. For an option that more obviously nods to art history, consider the fan featuring the Japanese artist Hokusai's "Great Wave" block print from the shops at the de Young and Legion of Honor museums in San Francisco ( $ 20).
Film, too, is filled with fans, including the delicate pearl-and-lace fan Audrey Hepburn carries in "War and Peace" and the intricate pink fan Kirsten Dunst wields seductively as the titular character in "Marie Antoinette."
For those who want to live their own Versailles fantasy, Agnès b. offers a gold-tinged folding fan made from sycamore wood and cotton canvas ( $ 170). According to the brand, the fan is a homage to the town of Versailles, which is where Agnès b.'s founder and designer, Agnés Troublé, grew up.
A closer approximation to the fan used by Ms. Dunst in "Marie Antoinette" is a pink silk hand fan with a pleasing rose-colored tassel from the Etsy store Brownskylight ( $ 30). Gucci's lilac-and-green flower print fan, which has a lush flora-and-fauna print on its screen and a gold interlocking G logo charm on its handle, also looks like it could have been lifted from a royal court. At $ 440, the fan, which is made with silk satin and wood, is royally priced, too.
To conjure the tropics and their refreshing breezes, try a softly pleated Iraca hand fan from the Etsy store CoroCoraColombia ( $ 33). The fan is made with Iraca palm straw and would look as elegant on a shelf as it would in a hand. So would Baba Tree's Bolga fan ( $ 35), which is handwoven from vetiver grass. Both fans have handles with a hook, making it easy to attach either to a bag with a ribbon or a carabiner.
The watermelon Iraca hand fan ( $ 37), also from CoroCoraColombia, seems ideal for cooling down at a picnic or a garden party. So does Pubumésu's lemon fan ( $ 143), which is made with calf-hide leather and ox horn. Pubumésu's line of luxe leather fans also includes a graphic fish fan ( $ 151) and an ivory crab fan ( $ 158) that unfolds to reveal a large orange crustacean and tiny starfish.
Duvelleroy, it should be noted, is still in the fan-making business. Among its most functional fans is the Take Away, which is available in a few colors and comes with an adjustable cord so it can be worn like a handbag. For a stately option, try the navy blue Take Away ( $ 93). A sportier choice would be the Kelly green Take Away that Duvelleroy produced in collaboration with the Frankie Shop ( $ 87).
Like any hand fan, both of those, as Duvelleroy's "Language of the Fan" pamphlet instructs, can be drawn across the face as a subtle signal of affection when not being used to cool down. If subtlety is not your lover's strong suit, Olivier Bernoux's heart-shaped Mon Amour fan ( $ 160) may convey your feelings more clearly.
All Consuming is a column about things we see -- and want to buy right now.
Photograph Pubumésu's lemon fan. Top right, Kirsten Dunst, center, seductive with a fan in "Marie Antoinette." In the second row: CoroCoraColombia's watermelon Iraca fan; Agnès b.'s gold-tinged folding fan. Third row: the "Great Wave" fan from the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco; a paper fan from Pearl River. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DIA GUILD & PUBUMÉSU; SONY PICTURES, VIA EVERETT COLLECTION; AGNÈS B.; PEARL RIVER; FINE ARTS MUSEUMS OF SAN FRANCISCO; COROCORACOLOMBIA) This article appeared in print on page ST8.

Subject: Brochures; Museums

People: Marie Antoinette, Queen of France (1755-1793); Dunst, Kirsten

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/style/best-hand-fans.html

Title: Use These Fans to Keep Cool. Or to Channel Beyoncé.:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

column: All Consuming

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Inte rest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846428171

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/use-these-fans-keep-cool-channel-beyoncé/docview/2846428171/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lil Bibby: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lil-bibby/docview/2846428170/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: DMX's album when he had the fully red cover, with the blood everywhere -- I had it on cassette. When I saw the picture, I got scared. I was a little kid. "Damien!" I heard that and I said, "Is this the devil?"
To be honest with you, I used to be realistic with myself when I was young: "I already know I'm gonna die and go to jail, so who cares?" And then when I started doing music, it just worked really fast and it kind of changed all our lives.
We watched Chief Keef come up. I feel like the whole world watched Keef come up. We were all young, and it was crazy to see someone from our city become so big so quickly. Once the music started picking up and people started paying attention, the spotlight was on Chicago. I feel like it made me take it seriously. It gave me some motivation -- like, OK, maybe I don't have to die, maybe I don't have to go to jail.
Drake reached out; that happened super early. He reacted to "Kill ____" with Herb. I was probably only rapping for nine months, and then Drake started hitting me up and invited me to his show. I was a big Lil Wayne fan, Gucci Mane fan, a big Drake fan.
When you just doing you, you never really think about how big it is getting or who's copying it. I'll explain the Chicago drill sound that the U.K. and New York is doing: It's this thing that we used to do in Chicago called footworking; the footworking beats was heavy percussion, like with the ticks.
This producer from Chicago named DJ L, he used to make every beat sound like a footwork beat. And I used to scream at him like, "Dude, I don't wanna rap on all footworking beats! Can you make different beats?" And he just couldn't. He was our in-house producer, so we just used to be stuck rapping on these footworking type of beats. And the whole world just started doing it. It's a Chicago thing.
Every now and then, I think, "We just started this in the closet." Social media definitely helped the drill movement, but when I look back at it, the [expletive] we was doing was so crazy. We didn't do a lot of thinking.
I think most Chicago artists didn't reach their peak. Most of them passed away. It's like crabs in the barrel. We Chicago people got trust issues. I always think somebody trying to get over on us.
I don't think we really understand the business that well. Then you feel vulnerable, like you don't know enough. Atlanta or L.A. always have the older people that's well seasoned on the business.
I always thought about the bigger picture, where I'm trying to go, you know what I'm saying? Since I started listening to Jay-Z, I was always like, What would Jay-Z do? That's how I based my career.
Photograph LIL BIBBY (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGER KISBY/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page AR32.

Subject: Musical recordings

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

People: Jay-Z (rapper)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/arts/06hiphop-Lil-Bibby.html

Title: Lil Bibby:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.32

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2846428170

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lil-bibby/docview/2846428170/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fabo: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fabo/docview/2846428168/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: We came up off Michael Jackson, my mama listening to James Brown, my grandpa was really into Curtis Mayfield, my uncle listening to Run-DMC, New Edition. We were singers -- I came up in the era where you were still going out there trying to sing to the girl to catch her, you know?
My very first memory of hip-hop was sitting down with my brother, rewinding Bone Thugs-n-Harmony trying to learn "1st of tha Month": "Wake up, wake up, wake up." That was when it really hit me, like, this is what I want to do.
I'm from Bankhead, so I seen Kilo, the dope boy in the neighborhood who had made it, in his money-green Cadillac all the time. And I came in the rap game up under Raheem the Dream. These was our local heroes. They mean everything. That was our inspiration, but the world didn't know them like that.
I was freestyling, winning the local talent show every week. And I started singing this song called "If You're Down on Your Luck Say (Ow)," and everybody started singing it. In the apartments, it was me and Young Dro. We ended up sparring against each other all the time, freestyling. This guy takes us down to Raheem the Dream. The rest is history.
When we left Raheem, I went to Shawty Lo. I'm in high school, and I was playing the tenor drums at the time. He was taking care of us. I moved right in and we started recording. He wasn't a rapper at this time, mind you. Never asked me for rent, never asked me for anything. He did these basketball tournaments where all the neighborhoods would come play each other. That's what brought a lot of Atlanta together.
When Jeezy and Gucci was going at it -- that was when everybody in Atlanta was just, like, boom. I remember being in the club when "Stay Strapped" was out -- like, "We need a song." Killer Mike, T.I., all of them had those songs bunking. That was the moment.
Lo used to always be pushing us. When Dem Franchize Boyz jumped off, I developed my style right there. I was like, they're trying to rhyme like this, so I'm going to do something totally different. I started yelling and screaming on everything. I was, like, ain't nobody doing this.
Right to this day, put "Tatted Up" on -- you can put it up against any Grammy that's ever been won. Just the end of the song -- [sings] "Barbaraaaaaa!" People would be like, "Who is Barbara!?" That's what I heard in the track, bro.
I've always been dancing. When the other guys made "Lean Wit It, Rock Wit It," I was, like, "No, this is our movement." I felt like I should've been given some type of credit. You can hear me on "Betcha Can't Do It Like Me" -- I felt offended.
I seen them on "Rap City" or something, and they asked who came up with the dance. And this guy goes, "Me." I leaned back in my chair and was like, "Yo, turn the beat on." And I got right in the booth. The snap era was intense, the competition.
With "Laffy Taffy" we went straight to MTV -- BET wasn't playing the song. We didn't understand what crossing over was. We didn't know that this was another level -- like, "You're No. 1." I think we wanted to prove for a while that we wasn't pop.
Anytime you see something that you don't understand or that's different, you're going to look at it with that side-eye, you know? Nas said "hip-hop is dead," I seen Ghostface Killah imitating the leg thing. But I'm just trying not to eat ketchup sandwiches anymore, dude.
I think when Busta Rhymes kicked it with us and jumped on the album, we started getting a little respect. And then Twista jumped on the record. People was like, "OK, well, these guys must have something." These are two different characters from two different places that bought into the movement.
Future, Young Thug, all these cats showed me love. Drake, when he put that "snappin' like you Fabo" in "Nice for What," bro, my grandmother was like, "Drake said your name!" I'm one of the only artists to have a No. 1 single and have my name called in another No. 1 single.
Photograph FABO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN MELTZ) This article appeared in print on page AR29.

Subject: Hip hop music

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/arts/06hiphop-Fabo.html

Title: Fabo:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.29

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2846428168

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fabo/docview/2846428168/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Big Gipp: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-gipp/docview/2846428119/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: My homeboy had to remind me last night, he said, "Gipp, do you realize that you've been involved in every era of music from Atlanta?" I said, "Wow."
This lady named Jean Carne was a soul singer who moved to my neighborhood with her son Joseph -- she had this song called "Closer Than Close." The same year, a guy named Ray Murray moved into our neighborhood.
Once we got together, Ms. Carne bought her son our first studio. And I remember the first time he called us to say, "Yo, my mom bought me a studio," because that was the same day LL Cool J dropped "Jack the Ripper." It's so cemented in my memory. We played that record over and over and over.
Ms. Carne started taking me around -- that was my introduction to the music business. She is a cousin of Peabo Bryson. At her house, I got to meet Stevie Wonder, I got to meet New Edition -- I got to meet the industry before I got into the industry. Her daughter had a birthday party and we went with the Jackson 5. Atlanta was filled with so many superstars, just because of the civil rights movement: Larry Blackmon was riding around, Curtis Mayfield was riding around, Kool & the Gang was riding around.
Ray started teaching me how to rap. The first records he gave me were the Last Poets, KRS-One, just to give me substance, you know?
But I created myself through two artists: Chuck D of Public Enemy and Ice-T.
I learned more from Chuck D than in school. Ice-T represented that player lifestyle -- that caught a young dude real early. "Power," I remember looking at the album cover like: "Yo! You're my guy."
I was working at a Red Lobster on Campbellton Road as a dishwasher, and one day I was listening to Public Enemy. This guy beside me was from New York. He said, "Hey, Gipp, you like that group?" I said, "I don't like this group, I love this group." He said, "Would you like to meet them?" I'm tripping because we in Red Lobster; we washing dishes. "Well, my name's Mike. Professor Griff is my little brother. They're coming to town and I'll take you to meet them."
He took me down to Fulton County Stadium, and I remember this night not for the concert, but because of the way that Chuck D came to the concert: They were headlining and Chuck D pulled up in a cab. That was something that stuck with me for the rest of my career.
N.W.A changed the whole temperature. It kind of stopped music for a minute. It really put the aggression into rap that wasn't there before. And then came Geto Boys. When they say, "Who was the greatest in the South?" Scarface, period. As a kid, Scarface was our Ice Cube in the South.
Every day there was new music coming out. It was so exciting. Everywhere you go someone would be, like, "You heard this?" And it was such a change from being a kid in Atlanta, because Atlanta was so soul -- there wasn't nothing bigger than the Commodores, O'Jays, Gladys Knight, Curtis Mayfield.
Goodie Mob, we gave you the heart and soul of where we was from. We gave you everything that brought us up, everything we was made from, what our mothers taught us, how we were raised.
We didn't come from the projects. I've always been around affluent Black people, religious Black people -- that's all I've ever seen. Drug dealers and gangsters had never been prevalent in the city because nothing could be bigger than the King. That's the reason why you had Goodie Mob speaking the way we spoke. Even at a young age, we rapped like grown men. We still gave you "Dirty South," we still took you into the projects, into the streets. We did all of that. We just did it from a place of always knowing we had something better.
It's also because we were signed by Babyface and L.A. Reid. We were never on a rap label and all the things our counterparts were getting away with, we couldn't get away with. I remember when Babyface was like, "A song ain't a song until you have a hook and a bridge." And that's all he ever said to us.
I was very much influenced by wrestling. I got to see artists like Ric Flair, Dusty Rhodes, the Road Warriors all up close. The costumes -- I knew what it did to people when they saw it. That's the reason we started doing that in the Dungeon Family. We knew that if people didn't understand us, maybe they would remember what we looked like.
Who would've knew Outkast and Goodie Mob could've been this? I don't think anybody has a André 3000 in their crew but us. I don't think anybody got a CeeLo Green in their crew but us. How could you beat somebody like us? All you've gotta do is say, "CeeLo, do some Gnarls Barkley," and it's over.
Every time the South creates a new style, they find something not to like about it. But if you think about it, we have not stopped since us. When you look at Future -- that's family, from the Dungeon -- Ying Yang Twins, Lil Jon, Ludacris, T.I., Jeezy, Gucci Mane. They didn't like the Migos at first!
As long as Atlanta has a strip club culture, we will always be ahead of everybody. Somebody could take a Young Thug record right out the studio at Patchwerk, go right into Magic City Monday, get the prettiest stripper to dance to it, and it's a hit record! It's just something that doesn't stop working.
Photograph BIG GIPP (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND BOYD/MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page AR14, AR15.

Subject: Archives & records; Rap music; Black people; Musical performances

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

People: Mayfield, Curtis; Chuck D

Company / organization: Name: Goodie Mob; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/arts/06hiphop-Big-Gipp.html

Title: Big Gipp:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2846428119

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-gipp/docview/2846428119/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

50 Rappers, 50 Stories

Author: Coscarelli, Joe; Caramanica, Jon

Publication info: Coscarelli, Joe; Caramanica, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/50-rappers-stories/docview/2846387440/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Over five decades, hip-hop has grown from a new art form to a culture-defining superpower. In their own words, 50 influential voices chronicle its evolution.
—
KOOL MOE DEE
The first time I remember being exposed to what we’re calling hip-hop now is Lovebug Starski on the mic at the Renaissance in New York, 138th and 7th Avenue. It was something I felt in my inner being. There was something going on inside me that said, I wanted to be a part of what that was.
Being a child of Malcolm X and Muhammad Ali, that whole revolutionary thought process was part of my DNA. I was pretty let down that the draft was done by the time I was 12, because I so looked forward to the day that I could be like Muhammad Ali. I was looking forward to not enlisting. So when I saw hip-hop, I had the same feeling: I’ll have a platform. That was my primary thought: I get the chance to do my Malcolm X thing on a mic one day. Hip-hop gave me the first inkling of that being possible.
Melle Mel was the first person that made me think that it was possible to take the lyrical content to where I wanted to take it. But Earth, Wind & Fire and Stevie Wonder gave me the inkling that you could actually put lyrics together and make an impact beyond just the music. “Songs in the Key of Life” was the most double-entendre, witty thought process, just in terms of the poetry in the title alone. And Maurice White — forget about it. When I heard the record “Fantasy” — “You will find/Other kind/That has been in search for you” — that was absolute peak metaphor for me. The fact that they were doing that kind of poetry on top of music was my actual genuine, genuine, genuine, genuine inspiration. I would say a calling, quite frankly.
I could not believe that Earth, Wind & Fire felt similar about me that I did about them. We were doing a cruise a couple years back, and they were rushing through the galleys to try to get to my show. When Verdine White broke down the difference in my cadence from the average MC? I was floating.
At one point, we were being belittled and looked down upon: That’s that bibbity-bop hip-hop stuff. But when Public Enemy and Chuck D got to be the center of attention, I was proud to say I was a rapper. “I do what they do.” Public Enemy took us beyond where most people thought we could take it. I make a little analogy that hip-hop has given Black America the chance to experience what white privilege feels like.
SCARFACE
I think my earliest memories were hearing the Sugarhill Gang’s “Rapper’s Delight” in 1979, and then the Soul Sonic Force, “Planet Rock.” I remember Kurtis Blow had a record called “Way Out West” — “Way out West from way back East/Coming from the place you’d expect the least/There came a stranger dressed in black/from a Harlem town a long way back/Had a Stetson hat with a band of gold.” I still remember it ’til this day. That’s the impact Kurtis Blow had on hip-hop.
I started going up to New York in my early teenage years, and started hearing and seeing the real elements of hip-hop, listening to WBLS on the radio. My cousin from uptown would send tapes to me, so I would always have the new hip-hop first.
In Houston, there was a hip-hop show called “Kidz Jamm” that came on 90.9. FM. There was also a local DJ by the name of Darryl Scott. That’s how we really got turned on to hip-hop. The first local artist I heard was Captain Jack. He was a DJ, and he made a record called “Jack It Up.”
I was a DJ first. My main influence was Jam Master Jay, the ultimate of all DJs. Then came the DJ that could rap: Grandmaster Dee from Whodini, right? I could rap, too, so I knew if I ever had to battle Grandmaster Dee I was going to douse his ass. That’s what I prepared my whole DJ career on: battling Grandmaster Dee.
I liked to cut Eric B. & Rakim’s “Eric B. Is President” and the Beastie Boys’ “Hold It Now, Hit It.” I was more the backspin, cut and spin DJ — I got into learning how to transform later. But as time went on I started moving more towards writing rhymes and producing.
The early Geto Boys made a song called “Car Freak,” and I thought they were famous, you know? But I didn’t know the realities of the music business until I got with Jukebox, Ready Red, Bushwick Bill and Willie D. Prince Johnny C had left the group, and when Jukebox left, it was just me, Will and Bill. That’s when we made “Grip It! On That Other Level.” Me and Willie did all the writing, we wrote for Bill.
I always tell people that I’m a hip-hop hybrid of Ice Cube, Chuck D and Big Daddy Kane. I wanted to be able to tell a story like Cube. I wanted to be very lyrical like Kane. And I wanted to have an in-your-face delivery like Chuck. As much respect as I have for Nas and Jay-Z, if it hadn’t been for that previous level of intensity in rhyming, I wouldn’t be me.
I’m just thankful that LL Cool J talked to my mom on the telephone during the New Music Seminar. This was when I first started rapping, a few months before “Mind Playing Tricks on Me.” This was the first time the Geto Boys got the chance to perform in New York, had to be around ’90. I don’t know what my mom and LL talked about, but I was on a pay phone with my mom and I was just so glad. And the Geto Boys got booed!
I think there were some artists booing us. Some of the other group members think it was probably A Tribe Called Quest. Nah, I’m just messing with you, because me and Q-Tip are cool as hell. That’s where we met, out in New York. And we toured together, too.
Q-Tip and I have formed a really dope friendship. He’ll just call and say, “Man, I’m just calling to tell you I love you, bro …” Well, I love you, too, Tip. That’s a very different matchup.
Being somebody that was born with this manic depressive mindset and just a sick disorder mentally, I found an outlet through my music. You saw me succeed. You saw me fail. I know that hip-hop saved me. But at the same time it took away from me being a good father, a good husband, a good son, a good uncle. The music stole me from everything that I should have been, but it still made me everything that I could have been, if that makes sense.
EVE
Hip-hop was always around me at a very young age. I had a big family that all lived together and my aunt loved LL Cool J — like, looooved . She always played his music around the house and went to every concert when he came to Philadelphia.
The neighborhood we lived in always had block parties with DJs in the summertime, ’84, ’85. Meredith Street — they’ve since torn them down, but we used to call it “down bottom,” 46th Street. You’re kind of in your own world when you live in the projects. Everybody knows everybody. So it’s a celebration of the summer and food and culture. But at the same time, it was not always the safest.
The music was full on Salt-N-Pepa, Queen Latifah, Fresh Prince — he wasn’t Will Smith then, he was just Fresh Prince. Along with tons of soul music. My biological father is a DJ, so there was music on that side as well.
A lot of the reason I went into hip-hop was the females. What I saw in them was women who were holding their own up against the boys, but still celebrating their femininity. MC Lyte’s “Cappucino” — I can totally remember the video. What was I, 10? I thought she was so damn fly. She had this long black coat on, but then her hair was stacked and shaved in the back. I wanted to get my hair cut like hers.
I always sang and I would write poems. But it wasn’t really until ABC came out — Another Bad Creation — when I was like, I want to start rapping. I formed a little girl’s group then — DGP, Dope Girl Posse — and we would do a lot of their songs, En Vogue, Color Me Badd. We did every talent show in Philly.
But I didn’t really start getting real serious until I got to high school, and I was very much a battle rapper. I was the girl who loved to get in a cypher. I started listening more to Lil’ Kim, Biggie, and my sound switched up. Philly is definitely different. We were known for being battle rappers, but a lot of Philly style is kind of more backpack and I just didn’t gravitate towards that.
It was fast and punchy, go-for-the-jugular. Because I used to battle rap against dudes all the time, I would just go at it and hurt their egos. It was basically just talking [expletive]. I always had stuff in the chamber. It’s very easy battling high school boys, ego-wise. It’s literally the truth: “You’re broke and you live with your mom.” Talk about their [expletive] size, and then you’re done.
It was always important for me just to be good — not good for a girl. I looked at those cyphers as honing my skills. I never turned one down. I went to Martin Luther King High School, and I’d cut and have like two or three lunches just to battle people. In the cafeteria, by the locker, the back stairs, whatever. On the weekends, South Street, there would just be cyphers on the corner. My full name was pretty much “Eve, That Girl With the Blonde Hair That Can Rap.”
Once I stepped in the studio I realized what a song was. We used to work with this one producer, Marv, who was really good at structure. I just wanted to do 24 bars and he was like, Bro, that’s not a song — you need a hook. We paid him when we could. Maybe bring him a bag of weed or something.
My first deal was with Dr. Dre. I auditioned for his A&R at the time, Mike Lynn. My managers were like, we’re going to put this beat on and you just rap. And I did. He literally called Dre right after I was finished, like, Yo, I think we found our girl.
When I was signed to Dre, one of his producers who I did my demo with was like, Yo, you have to meet this kid DMX. This was way before I knew what Ruff Ryders was. It just so happened we were under the same umbrella of Interscope. And after Dre dropped me, Jimmy Iovine said I’d be great with Ruff Ryders.
I just wasn’t happy waiting in the wings. I started getting on Dre’s nerves. They didn’t know the direction to put me in, but I’m very happy I got dropped, because once I got with Ruff Ryders, it was my boot camp. I thought I knew how to write a song — not really. I was told to slow down my flow. I needed to be humbled, and being dropped will do that. That being said, I went on to make some of my greatest records — the song I won a Grammy for [“Let Me Blow Ya Mind”] — with Dr. Dre. That was when I knew who I was, though.
I had a lot of opinions about how I thought I should sound. A lot of my ideas got shot down. The music industry was trying to put me in a box — the box inside the box inside the box. Luckily, I got to hang out with and look up to people like Missy Elliott and Trina and Lauryn Hill and Queen Latifah, who became a big blueprint for how I wanted my career to go, coming from hip-hop, but also being able to transcend.
I was a huge No Doubt fan — like, huuuge . I loved Gwen Stefani and nobody understood what I was saying when I wanted to do the song with her. People looked at me like I was crazy. But we’re the same in the sense that we’re girly girls who are also tomboys — the girl with the boys, because I was that. I knew she’d want to hang out with the girls because she’s always with boys. We just clicked.
Now I love Leikeli47, Doja Cat — she’s so freaking dope. Her lyrics are amazing. Coi Leray. Latto is lyrically great. I love Megan, Cardi, Nicki. I love the fact that there’s so many women that I can actually name. There were years when I would be like: Where . Are . The Women ? It’d be the one or the two. Finally, there is an actual landscape. I love it.
ICE CUBE
I knew a lot of slick-talking dudes that would rhyme all the time. Everybody had a little rap somewhere. I remember Teena Marie, Blondie — Muhammad Ali was rapping. It was just the cool thing to do.
But it wasn’t until songs like “Buffalo Gals,” “More Bounce to the Ounce,” “8th Wonder,” “La Di Da Di” — these are the songs that started to really get me turned on to rap. Blowfly had a song called “Rapp Dirty,” and when we were in fifth grade my friend and I would wait till his mama left and we would just play “Rapp Dirty” and Prince songs like “Head.” The adults would try to make you go to bed when it was time to listen to those records.
I loved KRS-One. He had a lot of different styles, a lot of different techniques. And he had one of the coldest names ever when you broke it down: Knowledge Reigns Supreme Over Nearly Everyone. He was an in-your-face rapper who came with style and intelligence. “Criminal Minded,” “The Blueprint” — masterpieces. He’s just one of the best that ever blessed the mic.
My first group, the Stereo Crew, had a song with Epic Records that didn’t hit. I don’t know if we sold five of them. We got dropped after that single. There were local groups we looked up to that were way bigger: Uncle Jamm’s Army, L.A. Dream Team, the Wreckin’ Cru, King Tee, Ice-T, of course. Toddy Tee and Mix Master Spade, Joe Cooley, Rodney-O. They were all starting to make noise.
Me, Sir Jinx and K-Dee, or Kid Disaster, we was going around joining rap contests and battles. We could never get into the talent shows because they didn’t want rap music back then. It was a hobby. There was a little money from playing shows, but nothing to think that you could not have a regular job.
I went to a trade school called Phoenix Institute of Technology, in Phoenix, Ariz., and got a certificate in architectural drafting. I already had a hit record at the time — N.W.A had “Dope Man” out. Dre kept saying, “You sure you want to go to school?”
I got entrenched into the hip-hop community in Phoenix at the time. Artists would come through and perform at a place called the Celebrity Theater — Fat Boys, Doug E. Fresh, EPMD. They knew I had a hit record out, so they would let me kick it backstage.
I was going back and forth every other weekend because Southwest had a great deal — $50 for a one-way ticket. When I graduated, in September ’88, we was in the middle of making Eazy’s “Eazy-Duz-It” album.
This was dirty, underground, hardcore rap. Explicit lyrics. We all thought we would have records in the Rudy Ray Moore section, next to the Richard Pryor records. Who would play this? Who would make this mainstream? We were being told that we were fools for spending our money to make records that couldn’t get played on the radio. It was just a ridiculous notion. But Eazy didn’t care — he felt like if a hundred people played it, that was good enough.
ICE SPICE
Middle school was a really important time, that’s when I realized that I was into hip-hop, specifically. All the mainstream artists, to be honest, that are GOAT-ed now. A lot of Drake, Nicki, Kendrick.
My dad rapped — he’s pretty private, so I wasn’t like, sitting there listening to his mixtapes. I would say he’s more like a freestyle type of rapper. It’s not like that was his whole life, but thinking back, that’s probably where it could have sparked for me, personally.
When drill started happening, I remember listening to a lot of Pop Smoke and Sheff G and Sleepy Hallow. I just enjoyed the overall feelings that the music gives, that summertime vibe. In my earphones, that’s what I was playing. Just listening to their beat selections and their choice of topics, I feel like that inspired me a lot.
I’m still growing and learning as an artist. I wouldn’t even say like, we’re fully here. Like we’ve arrived at my sound. It’s always changing and evolving. But I feel like in a couple years people will refer to this as my “Like..?” era.
My approach is really a reflection of my personality. That’s just how I am in real life. And I feel like I’ve always been influencing people, even before everything popped off, whether it was at school or whatever the case. But now it’s on a bigger scale, so it’s way better now. It’s musically, but also when it comes to how people wear their hair or how they wanna wear their makeup, how they wear their nails. Even with the lingo, certain things they say in songs, beat selection, cadence, personality. There’s so much to take inspo from.
But, you know, I feel like we’re all constantly influencing each other. I do the same thing in my own way. Like, I’ve taken inspo from so many different pieces of the world that I can only be flattered by it, you know what I’m saying? Like whenever I find myself almost feeling a certain way — like, Oh, why this person sound just like me or why they trying to look like me? — I have to remember like, that’s the whole point. That’s just how art works.
LADYBUG MECCA
I grew up in the DMV, and my friend had a lot of family in Brooklyn. So he would travel there and spend summers and he would record the Red Alert radio show on cassette. At that time in the DMV — this was like ’85, ’86 — go-go had more presence than hip-hop, so we were a select few that were even into it on that level. I became obsessed. It was just so fly and next level. I had already been writing my observations about the world down on like, little pieces of paper or napkins. So hearing people expressing themselves through words, through rhymes, through cadence, it just grabbed me, you know?
The Jungle Brothers really stands out for me in terms of those cassettes. Everything sonically, like the rhythms, the tone of their vocals, their wordplay. Musically, it was just a sound that I hadn’t really heard. It felt like the future, like complete freedom of expression, being like completely free in your skin. That’s the best way I can explain it.
I learned to rap by listening. I really loved MC Lyte. Queen Latifah’s “Wrath of My Madness” was mind-blowing, just out of this world. And Public Enemy, their rhythm spoke to my internal rhythm, you know what I mean? It was just like family, you know, I don’t know how else to explain it.
In high school, my other close friends had a hip-hop group and I started off dancing for them. And then I started writing and doing little shows, like local stuff. And it became very, very serious once, you know, Knowledge and Ishmael [Doodlebug and Butterfly] asked me to be in the group. That’s when it became a reality, like I could do this possibly for a living.
When we were out, we felt connected to the whole Native Tongues. Tribe, De La of course. Arrested Development. Gang Starr. I’m heavily influenced by Sweet Tee’s music. I looked to everyone, like Special Ed, Big Daddy Kane, all these people, they’re my inspiration. Daddy Kane was so smooth and cool, he was just everything. I couldn’t wait to get home to turn on the TV and watch music videos and just see what new I could absorb.
PROJECT PAT
My earliest memory is LL Cool J and some of the New York rappers. And of course, N.W.A and Ice Cube. But Scarface and the Geto Boys, man. Face is the one. I could visualize what he was saying. I hadn’t heard nobody tell a story about living down South. On one line Face was talking about how he was selling dope in the apartments, and that’s the stuff I was seeing in Memphis.
I grew up on DJ Squeeky — Squeeky used to have the club rocking. I listened to 8Ball & MJG. And anything Cash Money. Those are our guys, we was messing with them before they made it big. Paul and Juicy was on them before they even blew up.
When I made my first tape, I had a robbery charge pending. They were trying to give me 30 years, so I wasn’t thinking about no future in rap. But my brother and I could always make a word rhyme. I grew up around a lot of pimps on the street. I would ask them about their little pimp sayings. I would hear them saying it and I would flip it and turn it around in my raps. The pimps were my major influence.
Back in the days, New York didn’t accept rappers who weren’t from there. So I knew I made it when Funkmaster Flex dropped a bomb on my song. I was in New York one time and this is when “Sippin’ on Some Syrup” was rolling. Three 6 Mafia had sold something like 2 million copies of the whole album. So Flex dropped a bomb on “Sippin’ on Some Syrup,” right? And then he turned around and played “Chickenhead” and dropped a bomb on that one. I couldn’t believe it.
Then I did a show back in 2010 in New York, and the whole ASAP Rocky crew was there. I couldn’t believe it. And I was the headliner and the whole show was sold out. And when Cardi B made that “Bickenhead” song, man, that was a blessing. We love all the different artists that came after us — they keep us alive.
TRIPPIE REDD
My mom would listen to oldies, like, Tupac, Biggie, Jay-Z, Ja Rule, that soulful sound. And my dad listened to more like street underground from back in that era. People like Rich the Factor, Jadakiss, the Jacka and Ampichino, Fred the Godson. And then my uncle would listen to like more of the newer stuff, like Wayne and Drake and Thug. On my own time, when it came to YouTube, I would go listen to like rock, so like Kiss and the Red Jumpsuit Apparatus. I used to play Saints Row and they had a track on the game and it made me a fan.
My brother passed away when I was young, so that kind of gave me that drive to start wanting to make music. And I would sit at my grandma’s house and just rap on the stairs and be there for like two, three hours, just freestyling. We would have little things at school where we would have to write, so I would show my pen skills. I would make my school projects cool. Like, oh, I’m gonna write a letter to Drake. I literally did that too. I wrote a rap to Drake. I was in like seventh grade.
I started like experimenting with Auto-Tune and getting to my own sound. Auto-Tune and stuff like that, it got me into SoundCloud. That was like the beginning of like that super underground phase, Ugly God and Playboi Carti and Lil Uzi Vert, I started making music around the same time as them. But I didn’t blow up until the XXXTentacion and Juice WRLD era. I liked X and Lil Peep. If you go to my SoundCloud, it was really X, Lil Peep and then Uzi, too.
Lil Peep was on that sad boy [expletive]. That was hard. I love that. Just that feeling of, you know, depression and sadness and pain. That’s kind of where I was at the time, I felt like their movement is fire. Like they’re doing exactly what I envision myself doing.
I also listen to a lot of rock, though. I love Chino from Deftones. He’s passionately in character with his vocals. It’s like you gotta make certain movements and certain faces to hit certain notes. Sometimes he’ll just like go from like a melody to breathing and it sounds the same, like the melody and the breathing is all in one. It just sounds hard to me.
I’m not quite a rapper. I’m the odd man out. People mistake me for a rapper and then it’ll leave me in that box. So the way I could stay out of that box is by creating music that keeps me out of it.
CARDI B
An unforgettable moment as a child was when I saw Missy Elliott take off her head in the “One Minute Man” video, and that just made me like, go crazy for it. That’s all I wanted. It’s like, I don’t want to hear Barney anymore, you know what I’m saying? I don’t want to hear Disney movies music anymore. I just automatically got into hip-hop.
My female cousins that were older than me, they always listened to Lil’ Kim, Foxy, all the girls that was out at the moment. I always remember, my mom used to be like, “Don’t be playing that too much around the kids.” Then I got into Trina’s type of music. Trina makes like, you know, a nasty, freak nasty type of music. Lil’ Kim does freak nasty too, but I feel like they have different types of style. The route for me was more of a Trina route. It’s crazy because I’m a New Yorker, but I was always into that Trina and the Khia and the Jacki-O type of vibe.
As a teen, it just made me be like, yeah, “I wanna be [expletive] like them.” And that’s how I really am, actually. I started doing music when I was 23, but I was listening to these girls at 15, 16, 17, 18. So the personality that their music gave me stuck to me.
At the time, I just stopped stripping, so I was very much still in that whole stripper world. I wanted the music to be about me. My first song, “Washpoppin’,” it’s like, “I need all my moneymakers bring that cash out/I need all my D-boys to bring that cash out.” It was get money type of music. And then I also was making music for the gangsters because I felt like I was just such a gangster-ass little bitch.
My manager, he used to have long conversations with me like, how do you feel? I used to be like, oh, you know, I feel overwhelmed, sometimes I feel really tired. And then he would ask me weird questions like, so how do your boyfriend make you feel? How do you feel about love? How do you feel about your past relationships? And then I would have a conversation with him about my past relationships and my traumas. And then he’ll be like, oh, OK, so put that on your music. And that’s when I started to talk more about other things than just the things that I was doing in my past, like gang [expletive], street [expletive] and stripper [expletive].
TOO SHORT
I’ve been into the whole James Brown, Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Parliament-Funkadelic thing since fourth or fifth grade. There were a lot of songs before “Rapper’s Delight” that had a little hip-hop vibe, but just didn’t have that name. It wasn’t called rapping. And you don’t even realize it until you go back and grow up a little more and listen back to songs of your childhood. James Brown is talking and, you know, telling you the breakdown’s coming — give me the horns . It’s just there.
I don’t even know if that was related to the New York streets in the ’70s or whatever, but I do know that words and rhythms were said over disco and funk records. But you know, once “Rapper’s Delight” hit, I think the DNA of hip-hop was planted in me. I would never not like that kind of music ever again.
I’m like, 13, pushing on 14. My father has a really nice stereo system set up in the living room. I’m talking like ’79, and if you’re what they called an audiophile, which he was, you really wanted to have your speaker set up for you to sit in a certain area and get a great musical experience. I got a little window between 3:30, 4, when I get home, and 5:30, 6, when he gets home from work. So those two hours, I could play it and just play it loud. “Rapper’s Delight” was the favorite, and there was another song that came out around that time, Parliament-Funkadelic’s “(Not Just) Knee Deep.” “Rapper’s Delight” is approaching like, 15 minutes on the 12-inch and “Knee Deep” is about the same. I would just play those two records back to back — you play them twice each and an hour’s gone by, you know?
Before there was any definitive identity in music-making for myself, it was purely based on anything George Clinton did. Any relation to Parliament-Funkadelic was the inspiration for how the music should go, how the drum pattern should go, how the bass line should go, how the breakdown should go. I always look at James Brown like, you know, the New York guys already got to that. They’re getting all the best samples and you’re too late on that train right there. But not a lot of people had gotten into the Parliament-Funkadelic and just recycled the funk.
The first rappers that had a profound effect on me were Spoonie Gee and Melle Mel. Spoonie Gee was just silky smooth with it — he was a player, one of the first players, if not the first, on the microphone — and he told stories of his day, just interacting with people and the ladies. He was just my favorite. These songs are coming out about these parties and kicking it and bragging — the early days, Sugar Hill Records. Then all of a sudden, here comes a guy who’s like, I’ve met this lady and I took her to my spot and I [expletive] her. And it’s like, he’s my guy .
And Melle Mel, “The Message,” it was just an amazing insight on New York life. I was already rapping when “The Message” came out, but there was no substance to what I was doing. It motivated me to start writing songs about my city. And that changed everything.
In my tapes, I’m using all the latest slang words. I’m naming popular people in the neighborhood. I’m talking about current events, whatever is, like, really ours. We talking 1982, ’83. “Rap is hot, but we got our kid right here. Too Short, he’s ours.” The entire east side of Oakland knew about us because we sold tapes in the streets. When we went into the streets and first started selling tapes, we only sold tapes to drug dealers. We had like a paper route of drug-selling spots.
I had all these little books that I would write rhymes in and my mom found them. I don’t know what she read. She never approached me and said anything. She just wrote this long letter saying, “I didn’t raise you like this. I hope you don’t believe in this stuff. Why are you doing this?” It was enough to make a brother want to cry.
You think James Brown’s mama would have been like, boy, stop gyrating and dancing? Or Little Richard’s mama? I don’t know. It’s the next generation. And my generation right now does not understand the look and the vibe that 16-year-old rappers are on. But you look at the video and it’s 300 million hits. Somebody gets it.
DMC
I was in seventh grade, 1978. We were all in the schoolyard and Billy Morris, who was in the eighth grade, he wasn’t like a thug or a gangster, but he knew all of them. We thought he was going to try to make us smoke cigarettes and drink Night Train or Thunderbird, that 99-cent liquor. When we got over there, he had this tape recorder and said, “Check this out.” He pushed play and a beat came on and we heard this voice say, “When you keep the pep in your step you don’t stop ’til you get on the mountaintop/And when you reach the top, you reach the peak, that’s when you’ll hear Eddie Cheba speak.” That was the first time I heard hip-hop on tape.
Billy let me hold that tape for a weekend. He saw how bad I wanted it. I listened to it from Friday night all the way up to Sunday night at 10 o’clock. My moms was like, “Boy, you better get your butt in bed. You got school in the morning!”
Summer vacation comes, and now I’m seeing hip-hop at the park parties and the block parties. All that was probably going on all this time but it wasn’t until the tape that I paid attention to it. By having that tape with me for the weekend it became part of me. Now I’m open for that vibration. This was in Queens. I didn’t know anything about the Bronx. I couldn’t even leave the block!
My brother, who is three years older than me, comes home talking about getting a turntable because his friends were all getting turntables. So long story short, we didn’t sell weed. My brother and I were broke. All I had was this huge Marvel comic book collection. So my brother says, “Yo, we ain’t got no money, but D, you got a lot of comic books. We are going to do a comic books sale so we can buy some turntables and a microphone.”
Me and my brother buy the turntables. Every time he would leave, I would go to the basement and try to figure them out. It wasn’t until I heard Grandmaster Flash that I really got interested in DJing. In Queens we called them Flash tapes. These were live performances that were going on in the Bronx, Harlem and Manhattan that were coming into Queens via cassette tapes being sold like records in every hood. Flash tapes, DJ Hollywood tapes, Zulu Nation tapes were all going around Queens.
Everybody is playing that “Rapper’s Delight” song. And the only thing I really paid attention to on that song was that Superman rhyme. It was so different from all the other raps. Because I was a good student, I listened to “Rapper’s Delight” three times and learned it from start to end.
My brother brings home a record called “Superappin’” by Grandmaster Flash, the guy from the tape who had these Furious Five MCs. It changed my life because it came on with so much power. “It was a party night everybody was breaking/The highs were screamin’ and the bass was shakin’/And it won’t be long ’til everybody knowin’ that Flash was on the beat box!” It was so different from “Rapper’s Delight.” It resonated with my youthful rebellious nature. That was the day Darryl McDaniels became Easy D.
I think because I was into comic books I understood the alter ego thing. Melvin Glover is Melle Mel. Mohandas Dewese is Kool Moe Dee. They had these alter egos so I knew I could play into that.
The ones that made me want to get on the mic, of course it was Melle Mel and Kool Moe Dee. But the artists that changed my life was DJ Charlie Chase, DJ Tony Tone, and the Cold Crush Four who were Grandmaster Caz, JDL, Easy A.D. and the Almighty Kay Gee. They are the greatest group in hip-hop that a lot of people don’t know about. They kept it raw on the MC performance thing. I changed my name to DMC because of GMC, Grandmaster Caz.
“Rapper’s Delight” and “The Breaks” were cool. But the greatest period in hip-hop is the time before recorded rap. It was a live tape of the Fantastic Five vs. the Cold Crush Four at Harlem World that changed what I thought about rapping. They was playing Billy Squier’s “Big Beat,” they were taking Spoonie Gee’s “Love Rap,” and they were making routines out of them! They were flipping everything that had been done and taking it to another level. That made me say, wow, you can be a rock star with this. The attitude they had reminded me of AC/DC or Iron Maiden mixed in with George Clinton, Parliament-Funkadelic and James Brown.
For me, I took real vocal inspiration from Freddie Mercury, Robert Plant and Mick Jagger. Especially Mick because Freddie was usually very melodic. He could do opera, but Mick was different, raw. I’m the king of rock. I didn’t want to be the king of rap. All I cared about was comic books. Black music was in my house, but I saw it as my mother’s and father’s music back then. It was 30-, 40- and 50-year-olds. They are listening to all this great Black music by people like Aretha and James Brown. I didn’t get it as a kid, but with ’70s rock radio there was a station in New York City called 770 WABC. Harry Harrison and Dan Ingram, they would play James Brown, Marvin Gaye, Al Green and Aretha Franklin. But they also played Harry Chapin, Bob Dylan, Led Zeppelin, the Stones and Joni Mitchell.
So the reason why I love rock more is not only the voices were stronger, louder and powerful and they looked like superheroes, the drums and the guitars were stronger and louder. It was like the Incredible Hulk to me. So the confidence that I had was like, “OK, I may not be as eloquent in words as Moe Dee and the rest of the Treacherous Three. But if I rock this mic like I’m a member of the Rolling Stones or Led Zeppelin? If I bring that persona to hip-hop?” Man … it worked. Chuck D said it: Run-DMC showed hip-hop could be done on rock star levels. That’s why I said, “I’m the king of rock/there is none higher!”
CAMRON
I started watching, paying attention when I was 8, 9 years old. I’ll be here forever telling you a bunch of names, but people that I loved was KRS-One. Kool G Rap, Slick Rick, 3rd Bass, EPMD, A Tribe Called Quest, N.W.A, Gang Starr, De La Soul, Queen Latifah, Naughty by Nature. I remember going to the Gap trying to get polka dot shirts because Kwamé had a polka dot shirt.
To me it was neck and neck between the conscious and the street rap, then all of a sudden the gangster just took over. Maybe because what was going on outside of rap with the drugs and crime. Maybe that elevated gangster music more than regular music.
My aunt lives in Inglewood, so I used to go to California in the summers and hear the radio and they wasn’t playing what we was playing. And then I went to Navarro College in Corsicana, Texas, in ’94. And I remember getting to school and it was like a culture shock almost, ’cause it was no New York music being played. All they played was Bone Thugs-n-Harmony. Also these guys that I wasn’t aware of that had a big influence on the South, UGK. I loved it. With UGK, I think Bun B can rap with anybody, any state. I think Pimp C was more a lifestyle thing. Bun and Pimp, they mesh beautifully.
When I came home from Christmas break that year, “Shook Ones” was out and I was like, yeah, New York! I went back to school with “Shook Ones” on a cassette tape and I kept playing that every day. That had me in the New York mentality and I end up pistol-whipping somebody and getting kicked out of school.
So with me being from New York, I learned a balance. I don’t want to act like I’m not a lyricist, but then at the same time it may be too much for people. I probably have more male listeners, but I always keep in the back in my mind, I want some girls coming to my show, too. This one of my top three rappers, but I’ve never heard any girl be like, yo, throw that Kool G Rap on.
I remember when I was on the verge of getting a deal. I was at this girl house and Jay-Z was just coming out. He didn’t have an album yet. His first few singles was out. I’m like, yo, Nas is nice, man. She like, nah, I like Jay-Z. She said, Cam, I don’t want to carry a dictionary to the club with me when I go out.
That Nas and Jay-Z argument, it wasn’t just with the girl. I seen it starting to happen in different conversations and I was like, Jay is kind of the new standard. Before we had phones, when I didn’t have a deal, I used to keep 100 different loose-leaf papers in my pocket. I was like, whenever Jay-Z come out with something, I gotta come out with something because I seen where it was going and how people started adapting to him.
There wasn’t anybody that we said we need to be like them or rap like them. What I did see was that movements were always accepted. Whether it was the Native Tongues, the Hit Squad, or whether it was Cash Money or No Limit, or Roc-A-Fella or Murder Inc. I was like, I could create a team to where if you don’t like Cam, you may like Juelz. If you don’t like Juelz or Cam, you may like Jim Jones. ’Cause we used to be on my block arguing about who was the best in No Limit and people used to be like, oh, y’all don’t even know about Mr. Serv-On. And I would pay attention to these arguments and I’d be like, yo, everybody likes No Limit, but they have their favorites. So as long as you like No Limit, it don’t even really matter, ’cause you like the brand.
I remember Master P arguing with a DJ in New York. I won’t say the name. And they was trying to say, yo man, if you come to New York, we could give you this, this and this, ’cause Master P never had been in New York. And Master P, I remember him telling the DJ, look man, I don’t need New York. I don’t need y’all. I’m good. And I was like, yo, [expletive] is really eating outside of New York. So I already knew it’s an audience for that, so I always kept that in my mind.
Years later, Pimp C called me one day and he said, “Hey man, I’m about to dis the whole East Coast except for y’all. Them [expletive] up there be fronting. I believe y’all raps, man. I was at ’106 & Park,’ I seen Juelz. He had a Maserati, that thing was cute. Everybody else, they ain’t getting no money like us down here. But I think y’all are.’”
LL COOL J
It really started with the tapes that were floating around the city. The Cold Crush and the Fantastic Romantic 5 and the Force MCs and Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Four, and then Five MCs. And then later on it was Fearless Four and the Treacherous Three. And Zulu Nation.
I lived between Long Island and Queens, but I actually got exposed more on Long Island because next door to me was a whole house full of foster kids, and they were from the five boroughs, but mainly the Bronx and Uptown. They were bringing tapes, some better quality than others, so I was hearing everything way earlier. I was hearing it as it was unfolding.
One day I was in the hallway in junior high, I had already been rhyming for quite a while, and this kid was singing part of a Jimmy Spicer song: “This DJ, he gets down, mixing records while they go ’round.” The light was coming through the hall and it was just me and him, he didn’t know I was there. I just remember the way he looked when he was singing that. And the way it sounded — it just clicked for me. I said, That’s what I want to do for real. I actually want to step into that dimension. It was like a dream.
From there I just started joining a lot of groups. Some rejected me. At the end of the day, I just worked really, really hard. I went everywhere. I was all over the city. I was all over Queens. I started going uptown to Harlem. At about maybe 15, 16, right before I actually ended up recording, I started hanging out with a guy named Silver Fox. Silver Fox was like a tutor for me when it came to the craft of writing rhymes and cadences and lyrics and all that. He also mentored Kool G Rap in a different way. Fox was real skillful, and he was a very prolific songwriter.
Lyrically, I was inspired by Melle Mel, Spoonie Gee, the Treacherous Three, the Fearless Four — DLB, Tito, Mighty Mike C, Peso. Those were the guys that really were into wordplay. A lot of their wordplay still holds up very well. They all had unbelievable style, and I was able to learn a lot from them. It’s kind of like I would imagine a guitar player sitting down and listening to how people roll them licks and hit them chords, and then after a while you just kind of develop your own thing.
One thing led to another. I was just sending tapes out and finally, obviously, my tape got in the hands of Rick Rubin in his dorm and Adam Horovitz of the Beastie Boys. By the time I got to “I Need a Beat,” I was ready to rhyme on any stage, in any arena, with anybody.
I did run into a little bit of arrogance here and there, which is why I’ve always tried my best not to treat anybody the way some of these guys treated me. It was a very small community, though. No industry. In other words, there were no managers. Russell Simmons ended up managing people, but he was still learning his way. There was no network of people. It was just a few believers here and there. I’m a generation 1.5 artist — myself, Run-DMC, Beastie Boys. Meaning that we tapped into the culture, evolved with the culture, but then we are the ones who went out and actually turned it into a full-blown, worldwide global industry.
BOOTS RILEY
When I was 15, I was trying to get my boy Johnny to come to police brutality rallies. I was like, man, you can rap and it’s gonna be a lot of people there. And he would be like, I’m only gonna do it if you rap, too.
Often what I was doing was just stealing Schoolly D stuff because nobody knew it. In school, pounding on the table and rapping, I was also doing theater. Somebody came up with the idea like, let’s do our own version of “West Side Story,” but we’re at East Oakland, so let’s call it “East Side Story” and let’s make it all rap. So that was my first writing.
I spoke at a rally at U.C. Berkeley, and this dude Pizo the Beat Fixer who was Too Short’s DJ for a while comes up to me and says, “Hey man, do you rap, ’cause that political [expletive] could hit right now.” I was like, yeah, matter of fact, I do. He put out an album that was me, Spice 1 and a dude named Mocedes who was known at the time because he was on Tony! Toni! Toné! song where he says, “Mocedes, the mellow.” Later on, he got known as Mopreme, Tupac’s stepbrother.
Here’s the thing with every local artist, even to this day — we’re all taught that we aren’t [expletive]. I remember I was in junior high when Too Short got to open up on the Fresh Fest. And people were talking about, oh, how they let him on, blah, blah, blah, this and that. It wasn’t until MC Hammer and Digital Underground where people started being like, oh, you know, this is something local but other people like it. You have this little town mentality. And so when we had the Coup, it took until we could show that people other places liked us to where people claim you. Because everybody wants to be connected to something important.
I mean, there was definitely a sense of teamwork happening, people sharing contacts, people wanting shows to happen. I do have to say this for the 20-year-olds that are reading, you’re not like, reposting each other’s things. You show up at each other’s thing. You’re in each other’s videos. E-40’s uncle was distributing most everybody’s stuff. At one point, my manager was Chaz Hayes, and he was managing us, Spice 1, E-40, Master P and some of the members of Tony! Toni! Toné!
“Soul Beat” on TV was the way that you also heard about stuff. They had stuff like Ice Cube when he was just in C.I.A., dancing by the pool. So the Coup and E-40 and the Click were performing at Soul Beat Day, and backstage E-40 and Studio Ton was like, “Hey, we want to do something with that lyric of yours ‘practice looking hard.’” So that’s when we started doing stuff together. We were doing a lot of car shows, lowrider shows up and down California. I still have my trophies from doing those lowrider shows.
I remember Wild Pitch said to us, we got this idea. They were like, you don’t really fit into a genre, and we think one way to get past that is to put you on a college tour. And we’re like, we’re not making no college music. Meanwhile that’s who’s buying the records, so we made a terrible mistake.
But they gave us $14,000. So we went on a 50-day tour in a minivan where we got out in each city, we put up our own posters, put up our own stickers, asked people where the record stores were and went to the record store, played them our record, made ’em listen to it.
When we got to D.C., the label was like, we’re not getting any headway with BET. We had saved up our per diem, you know, we each had $5 a day. We knocked on the door, we told Joe Clair to pick wherever he wants to go to eat. We took him to eat and hung out with him and showed him the video. And then a week later, I think it was Memorial Day, they played it crazy. Right then we were in Cleveland and people started being like, I just saw you on TV.
EARL SWEATSHIRT
My best friend when I was like 4 or 5 years old, literally in a hip-hop movie-style fashion, came over to my house with a Rob Base tape. The only thing that makes that unique is that it happened in 2001 and not in 1988. It must have been his parents’.
By the way, a lot of people’s favorite flows from their faves right now is basic party-rocking flows from the ’80s. The ’80s is back. Like BabyTron — Detroit got the ’80s really right here in our face right now.
Before I went to Samoa, I was listening to Lupe, Hov, De La, Common, P, Dilla. Dilla as a rapper, I’m not gonna do the whole annoying thing right now, but that was a huge thing. Like, I spent a lot of time as a 12-year-old really locking in flow-wise. I’m always gonna fly the flag for the Cool Kids. I feel like Cool Kids and De La, if you squint, it’s a similar space. Now that De La is back on streaming, bro, I’ve been on it heavy. Rappers still can’t rap like that. Like, it’s too free, but structured. It has that impossibleness to it.
By the time of my first tape, I didn’t even have enough time to synthesize all of my influences. You know how Peter Parker first gets bit by the spider and his web is all over the place, he’s gotta get the suit? It was that. I’m finally at the point where I can even hold all of this at once, or be dexterous enough to move within all of it.
But when I was like 15, on my first tape, I was listening to Eminem and Doom. Which is where everyone checks in with me at — everyone’s like, OK, Doom-Eminem guy. Everyone is mad because I don’t say, like, “hazardous” when I rap anymore. [Expletive] is really excited by just one-for-one-ing four-syllable words. It’s a good party rap trick. But that’s easy, you know what I mean?
A thing that has kept me healthy is never being xenophobic about the Brits. I’ve been listening to British rappers the whole time. I think you dust yourself if you don’t. They are really, really, really, really, really good at rapping. They got the freedom of like some dancehall, bro. A lot of where it will be hanging off the cliff’s edge of a beat. That’s what I love about them though — you can go to a new place if you let yourself go over there. It’s like jazz standards, bro. If you don’t have a valid U.K. flow, then you’re gonna get dusted.
Growing up, I feel like we were the first generation that was familiar with everything but, like, maybe don’t want to listen to it all day. But we’re finally at this point that I used to joke about like five years ago, where little kids don’t know Tupac and that’s not embarrassing. It’s supported.
Every generation of 19-, 20-year-olds is gonna come along and be like, [expletive] what you guys just did, I don’t care about it. Maybe that’s like a natural kind of thing that happens as you stand up as a human being. But learning how to listen to Nas, learning how to listen to these things that even though you want to listen to Lil Wayne all day, your older brother, your uncles are like, this is it right here — that’s important.
And I’m still down for that. From my own experience with committing these passages of song to my memory, I know the utility of being a historian so you can draw lines from that to the new thing and not be lost. And then most importantly not become jaded and not have a in-house fighting thing going on that’s yielded some pretty nasty [expletive].
I was part of that first generation that came on the internet and was like, [expletive] this [expletive]. And then old heads were like, what is y’all little [expletive] talking about? And then having that butting-heads thing unnecessarily, because we gotta work together, you feel me? It’s like being in a house. If the adults only interacted with the adults and the children only interacted with the children, it doesn’t work.
You gotta be around kids. This is what I’m saying about the utility of the multigenerational aspect of this thing. The elders know what happened so they can inform the younger ones on, oh, if you like this, then you should check out this, this and this, so you can see the iterations that came before and you can do something different. And then the young people are here to teach the old people this new dance move.
If there’s one thing that comes through this article, I hope it’s this. I want to clarify for people that’s inspired by what I do. I feel like because of my disposition, the thing that I see some kids take away is like a mood and a vocal timbre. And it’s like, I went to the Samoa boys school, my whole [expletive] was all [expletive] up. Whatever weirdness everyone watched me go through was legitimately genuine for me. That is not a stylistic choice. I wish that I didn’t sound like that.
I hope that what they take away from me is be good at rapping. That’s the thing that I care about. I really don’t [expletive] with being a tortured artist. Being tortured is not tight. Rapping hella good is tight. Pigeonholing me means you can just feign knowledge by being like, oh, he makes sad music. Bro, if you listen to my music, 70% of my music is about being better than you. I am a very competitive rapper.
I feel like I had the world put in my hands and I was like, what the [expletive] is this right here? And so I don’t want you to copy that part. I’m saying if you ever get the world in your hands, be free.
Q-TIP
My sister was best friends with Sweet Tee — she made that record, “It’s My Beat.” So back when I was little-little, I remember hearing them talk about records, like, you heard that Treacherous Three record? I’m like, Treacherous Three, I’m thinking it’s like superheroes.
There was a record store on Linden Boulevard, like, right up from my house — I forget the name of it. I used to go there with no money and just ask him about the records and just to see the records. And he would play them for me. You had hundreds and hundreds of 12-inches that would just start popping up. Back then it was still coming out of the disco culture — “Rapper’s Delight,” Fatback Band, “King Tim III (Personality Jock),” Ronnie Gee, “Raptivity.”
We heard “Rapper’s Delight,” and I’ll never forget Phife calling me like, yo, we can do that! The newness of it left us wide-eyed and inspired and hopeful.
You think about the Treacherous Three, Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five, the Fearless Four, everybody had a group. So you have all these vocalists trading off. And if you even wanna get geekier about it, it goes back to like the old doo-wop street-corner harmony. Famously Run-DMC obviously took that whole interplay between them two and made it worldwide. And of course we wanted to be like them.
I was a big fan of LL Cool J, Kool Moe Dee, T La Rock, L.A. Sunshine from Treacherous Three. All of the dudes where the vocabulary was just a little extra. Slick Rick was huge — his sound, his tone, his voice and the confidence, you know?
Obviously coming up with the Jungle Brothers and De La Soul and the whole Native Tongues, we were tuned to be a little bit more cerebral. And all of the aforementioned icons got us to that point where we knew that we could cannonball off of the diving board. But I remember us wanting to even go further, to be like some Earth, Wind & Fire or some Parliament-Funkadelic. Like to really try to turn it on its ear, and just let that flag fly.
Our thing was to try to marry the two, the music and the content of the lyrics. And to try to be differentiators even amongst our caper partners. And to our left and to our right, when you would look, there’s N.W.A doing that same thing. The music that Dre was putting with the subject matter fit so perfectly. It was fresh, it was just new and it was exciting to be able to emotionalize the music.
Dre and I speak all the time. That’s my bro. We actually have great musical volleys. Obviously LL. I still speak to the De La guys, of course. I catch Latifah here and there. A good deal of us still keep up. I still speak to Lauryn. It may not be like a full open faucet stream of conversation all the time, but we still keep up. I remember talking to Snoop years ago and he was like, man, when y’all made that “Back in the days in the boulevard,” me and Warren G used to rap y’all [expletive].
I think it was 1991, we were doing a Midwest and South gauntlet with the Geto Boys. We were opening for them — they were huge down there. Probably the two most unlikely groups, right? But we had so much fun, man. We was big fans of them, we was rapping they [expletive] to them and they was rapping our [expletive] back to us. It was just amazing. I remember very early on we had a show with DJ Quik and KRS in Compton, and just seeing all the Bloods, and they was just rocking to “El Segundo” and “Bonita” and it was just like, wow, this is really a unifying music.
Because of the scarcity then, when you got in, you had to be good. To be good was the average. I think that everybody’s grind back then to get on was something that created conduits of empathy amongst us all. So that when we did see each other, we were able to tell each other griot tales of how we all got on. “Y’all too? Even in Houston? Even in Cali? Even in Miami?”
When you’re doing it, you feel like you’re on your own planet, right? But then when people dig it and you start seeing other people draw inspiration from what we did, it let us know that we were onto something and it also made the world a little less scary, if that makes sense.
It’s just a great moment of, for me personally, humility and appreciation, when you see a Digable Planets or Arrested Development, a Pharcyde or Souls of Mischief, the Roots. You could go to Badu, the Fugees. And Dilla, who was the great extender of the parlance and endowed it with his own beautiful traits.
That’s to me what I take a great sense of pride in, that I can see all of these guys go on and do honestly better than what we did and to lay even more tracks for us. And it’s like, “Come on, let’s go.”
50 CENT
I fell in love with hip-hop, but it was only playing for one hour out the week on the radio. My grandmother used to go to church and take a tape recorder and record everything the minister said, and she would play Sunday service to herself again on like, Wednesday. She had all of these Maxell cassette tapes that once you record, you break the little tab off. I had to go get toilet paper and put it in the square and record over what she already had for the church. It was only on for one hour — I had to record it then.
This is back when KRS was out, he made such an impression on my career early on, ’cause creatively, that aggression that was there. I didn’t follow a complete blueprint of what he’d done, and at one point he got so much smarter than the audience that it wasn’t entertaining because it was like learning some [expletive]. It was teaching. That’s where he lost me a little bit. But when he came in the beginning, he had the competitive energy — that was what hip-hop was to me the entire time.
He said, “Manhattan keeps on making it, Brooklyn keeps on taking it/Bronx keeps creating it and Queens keeps on faking it.” And I’m from Queens! I liked it so much. But I didn’t know how I felt about it because of what it said.
If you look at that, then look at what I done at the desperation point where Columbia didn’t understand who I was as an artist. I was approaching the release date and I had to do something. I know I don’t have the momentum or anything. It’s going to not work, and it not working isn’t an option. So “How to Rob” — that’s my version of that energy.
Biggie and Tupac, following that, artists were afraid to say each other’s names. So Nas was saying “20 G bets I’m winning ’em, threats I’m sending ’em/Lex with TV sets the minimum.” It was him describing Jay-Z. “In My Lifetime.” Subliminally talking about each other without actually mentioning each other’s name.
My personality difference from the other artists, I’ve been bumped around more than them the entire journey. On my journey early on, it was rough. Then as the music business was doing it to me too, I kind of didn’t know how to not respond like the pit bull that you have outside in the yard.
Early on, Dre was like, I know what this is, this is N.W.A, it’s just one member. What Dre was telling me was that I don’t have to reach to get the audience to come [expletive] with me. They’ll come to me. But I was like, I need this other thing. I had worked out and I got myself into a good space physically. I needed the female audience to feel like they could fix me.
When I listened to great albums, they’ve had emotional moments. With Biggie, it’s “____ You Tonight” featuring R. Kelly. It would create a tone shift on a rapper’s album more like rapping as the feature on someone else’s R&B song. Like Dre specifically, that record, “21 Questions,” he was like, I don’t know why you want it. I hear it. It’s good, but you don’t need it.
The hardest person you could have a melody on a record was Nate Dogg. Nate Dogg will [expletive] you up! Having Nate was the coolest way to make a record like that still feel really hard, and for you not to question it.
I was creatively in pocket on the first record. But I became a star during the second album. The second album is when I found this new value for myself. I started feeling like a bad bitch.
I’ll tell you something that Michael Jackson taught me. Because he was talking to Chris Tucker, and he was a big fan of the actual music. And he was like, you know what, he has good melodies. Like, the way I would say things in the choruses and stuff like that. And that’s what is allowing it to connect internationally, where English is people’s second language. They only can follow the melody.
I think in general, the culture loves things that are damaged, because it makes the audience feel better about themselves, looking at somebody like, they’re more [expletive] up than I am. It allows parts of the audience to go on a safari. To be close enough to the animals and not actually be in danger.
GUCCI MANE
I remember buying my first $5 cassette tape, 2 Live Crew, from the flea market in Alabama. I was like 6 or 7. I didn’t even know what the music was about, that cover was just so raunchy to me. My mama found the tape and played it on the porch in front of her friends to embarrass me — like, “Look what Radric’s listening to.” But I only bought it for the cover.
I moved to Atlanta when I was 9. My brother was listening to the gritty underground Atlanta stuff, the gritty Memphis stuff, New Orleans, so that’s what I gravitated towards — Kingpin Skinny Pimp, Triple Six Mafia, the Hot Boys and Master P.
By the time I started trying to finance my own first tape, maybe ’99 or 2000, those were the key people I could relate to — B.G., Project Pat. Like, OK, this dude just got out of jail, and everybody in the hood listens to that. I’m going through the same things at the same time.
I didn’t feel like Project Pat was the best rapper, but he made me feel him. I’m like, can’t be Fabolous or Lil Wayne, but I can do this. I was late in the game, but I didn’t have to be scared to try. I was going to spring break in Daytona, and it was the whole summer of Project Pat and Big Tymers. I started doing the stuff they were rapping about — like, I’m going to be the CD that I’m listening to.
That’s really how this started. It wasn’t even a love of hip-hop; I’m a hustler. I’m like, damn, I really don’t want to sell dope all the time. It’s too risky. If Jermaine Dupri can put out Kris Kross, Birdman ain’t really a good rapper and I got a little money — I can get in this.
I was always thinking, none of this matters if I go to the club and I ain’t got no movement. I’d seen rappers try to get their music out, but they looked lame and no one took them seriously. I was like, “How can I get the whole apartments on Bouldercrest to come with me?” I knew I was popular, I was already going to the club, and I leveraged that. It really was calculated.
My first album came out in 2005. I think 50 Cent dropped his in 2003. He was just super hot. The same stuff he was talking about, I was really having those beefs. It ain’t even nothing to glorify, but that’s what was going on for me, for real. That was my soundtrack, and it really emboldened me to talk with urgency about the stuff I’m doing.
That was at a time when I was heavily in the streets, and I was heavily paranoid about what I had did. I was riding back and forth to Alabama trapping and I had two CDs — Lil Jon’s CD, “Kings of Crunk,” and “Get Rich or Die Tryin’.” That was my inspiration: “I just have to get past this stage.” I moved fully back to Atlanta in 2004, and maybe two weeks later, I made “Black Tee.”
Gucci in ’06, I just was whoever I was 24/7, a lot of times to my detriment. But that’s who I was as a 26-year-old guy trying to be an artist, one foot in and one foot out. My peak came later because I was locked up. But the business was in a better place when I got out, and I benefited from that.
People would never think that a rapper in his 40s would be as in demand. But I’m making way more money than I thought. I never could travel until I was 37, 38 years old. I’m glad I don’t have to do a show in the hood all the time, like I was doing. I know the chitlin circuit. I’m so glad I got over a lot of hurdles, where now I can do a show internationally and get the type of money I felt like I deserved.
Being in Iceland was definitely one of those moments. I had a concert at a festival. The sun didn’t even go down the whole day. That was the craziest thing I’ve ever seen — and it was fun. I never would have thought that it would be something I’d like. I used to tell people, “I don’t want to go nowhere but East Atlanta and right back to the studio.” But damn, it was way better than sitting in that cell.
DJ HOLLYWOOD
The beginnings of what hip-hop is was called non-syncopated rap, meaning that they had a lot of rap, but people weren’t doing it to the track. They had a jazz beat going or some kind of miscellaneous beat that didn’t drive the words. Whatever they were talking about, it had to be really, really tight and interesting, or nobody wouldn’t listen to it. So some of these cats was like the Last Poets, Rudy Ray Moore, Blowfly, Jocko Henderson, Pigmeat Markham, Oscar Brown Jr., Hank Spann. A turntable wasn’t involved.
When the turntable became involved is basically where I step in and started adding the lyrics to a record. I got my first job in ’71. Once I got the mixer with the headphones, it changed the game.
Records back in the day, there was an A section, a B section and a break. I’m the voice. And then I get my voice out right in time for the guy that starts singing. As long as I’m complementing the music, I’m in it. Not only did you get the great record, but you got the great introduction to the record as it came on, you know?
I was a singer before this all happened. I began to sing everything I said — “If I was snow, I would be cold/If I was a jug of wine, I would be old” — and that’s what made it harmonious.
I didn’t call it rapping. I was just entertaining. It was new, it was fresh. A lot of people was like, “Yo, could somebody tell this [expletive] to shut up. Let the record play!” I went through the wire with this. It wasn’t all sweet. But I managed to stand my ground.
After the blackout in ’77, everybody and they mama had some equipment — microphones and turntables and stuff — and they all started to get into the game. I had the blueprint of what a person should be doing, and mostly everybody, they were sounding just like me. A lot of the guys were using my same lines to get their thing on, you know what I mean?
I’m the creator of the style. I’m the creator of the colorful words over music to make people enjoy themselves. Because the first raps was about enjoying yourself. Then it got political and then it got to your neighborhood, then it got to the stickup man and then it got to the sexy, all that came after. But at the beginning, it was basically just to have a good time.
I saw people putting out records, but what they’re doing is slightly different. But I had a big head. Like, get out the way — this is Hollywood!
I was high. I was a lunatic for a while. When you high, you don’t give a [expletive] about nothing. And that’s how I got left behind. ’Cause I was fired up and then being fired up inside my head, like there’s nothing better than me. I’m not ashamed. That’s what happened and that’s how it went.
I was high for a long time. I was high in the ’80s, too. I was on cocaine at first and then I moved to the crack. I can’t blame what happened on anybody other than me. Don’t have a soul in the world that I can say, man, y’all didn’t do me right, y’all didn’t look out for me. And I know plenty of people that could have, plenty of people that should have.
I didn’t make the money that they’re making now, but at the time I was making more money than anybody. I had limousines, I had my own Cadillac. I was doing very well, but I was getting high at the same time, so I was spending my money frivolously.
Everything that I ever owned, it just went. I lost the apartment, so all the stuff that I accumulated there is gone. And I did that over and over and over.
The whole 50 years of hip-hop that they’re promoting right now, it’s not about dudes from where I’m at. It’s for dudes from the ’80s. I look around, man, there’s 7,000 legends. Where’d they come from? How? What did you do to be a legend? This little period of 50 years of hip-hop and they’re honoring it, if it goes past and I get nothing out of it, then I don’t know what to do from there.
I can’t beat myself up. I got clean toward the ’90s. All I want to do is find me a spot where they let me play. I’m trying to see right now how I can change my life from here. The whining, I ain’t never do that. Me cracking myself over the head, I’m not going to do that. I’m sorry I didn’t catch on, but I mean, it wasn’t no thing to me. I really didn’t have that period where I was so sad that it wasn’t me. Because I’m in all of them. I’m in their DNA.
MC LYTE
In Spanish Harlem, where my grandmother lived, my older cousins were playing cassette tapes: the Cold Crush Brothers, Funky 4 + 1, Sha-Rock, Treacherous Three, Sugarhill Gang, Kurtis Blow. I remember one of my cousins used to date his brother, and that was a big deal.
The Sequence was definitely an influence to hear — Angie B, Blondy and Cheryl, how they all attack, like very differently from one another, but were laid back with it. That laid-back way became a part of the way that I stepped to a microphone. And of course, Salt-N-Pepa, they definitely were a guiding force for me. I learned all of the words to their records as I began to practice for who it is that I was going to become.
Run-DMC, Melle Mel — the message of “The Message” really helped me. I was already writing stories, because my mother insisted I write essays for everything. So to be able to hear about this place that I had never been. I had never been to the Bronx. I was just Brooklyn and Manhattan. As far as I knew, 138th Street was the last stop on the train.
I never considered myself a rapper. I was an MC, and an MC, to me, is very different from a rapper. Like an MC is, you know, Nas, versus someone who is not an MC, but had a rap record, and that would be Hammer. He wasn’t in there to show his skills off as an MC, he was in there to make a hit song. Just because you rap doesn’t make you a rapper. But that’s just me.
I happen to like a lot of what the female MCs are doing now, and I listen to everything — I’m a DJ. I’m not just an ’80s, ’90s DJ. I like “Plan B” by Megan Thee Stallion. I like Megan’s register. I’m a fan of Remy Ma. The way that she rhymes, she makes you feel it, just like Lil’ Kim. Just like Foxy. Foxy, Lil’ Kim and myself, we’re all from Brooklyn.
I like this new one by Coi Leray, where she uses that “Message” sample. I like Latto when she used Mariah’s sample. It just feels like a return to something heavy and loaded, and I like when I can feel the depth in someone’s voice.
I’m a fan of Rapsody. I love what she talks about. Just the awareness and acknowledgment of love and womanhood and Blackness. Tierra Whack. Nobody’s messing with that freestyle, she’s just bananas with it. And of course, Cardi and Nicki. Baby Tate. It’s like so many MCs on the scene. Lady London. Oh my goodness, she brings it. You’re talking about college-educated, and not afraid to flip some words on you that you got to go look up.
No one rolled over and started rapping by themselves. Everybody was inspired by somebody. Whether they want to come clean about that or not is a different situation.
LIL WAYNE
The New Orleans hip-hop scene was way more captivating than the worldwide hip-hop scene, because it was more in your face. Our local radio stations, they favored our artists, so our Top 10 songs would always be full of New Orleans. You’d probably get a Billboard No. 1 hip-hop song thrown in there at, like, No. 8.
Our block parties were a bit different; they were more like a concert. There’s a big crowd, there’s a DJ and there’s a microphone, but it’s not for the DJ. The DJ would introduce the artist coming on, and it was up to that artist to keep the party going.
All these names are a chain link to me getting a deal: This first artist, his name was Roni. Roni was one of the best. He reminded me of Juvenile a lot. His niche was finding a way to tell you exactly what he’s doing every day — walking to the damn corner store — and he found a way to make you love it, feel like you could relate to it, like you just took that same walk. He’d go through his day and people would love it.
You could get a recorded tape of that whole block party, sold after it was over. I would only want to hear Roni’s part, backwards and forwards, over and over and over. He was from my hood, but he was a grown-ass man, so he didn’t know too much about me.
From the other side of my hood, there was another guy named Lil Slim and he was a bit different. He talked about the hood, and the hood only. I meshed those two guys together, and I couldn’t wait to get my opportunity.
I was every bit of 9, 8 years old. Thank God I was always a smart kid in school, so I was interested in words, always interested in words. Never knew why; I still don’t. I always was the main person in the play. Whatever it was, from “Les Miserables” to “Wizard of Oz.” I want the main role. I couldn’t wait till the day that damn DJ gave me the mic. It was over.
I was probably around 10, 11 when they had the station called the Box. People were ordering videos, so you had to watch 1,000 videos you don’t want to watch, but once or twice you’ll see something on there that you didn’t know too much about. That was my real introduction to being actually interested in other music other than New Orleans music.
I fell in love with New York artists, anybody from the East Coast. They was making more of their words to me. You had people like Q-Tip and Busta, way before the “Gimme Some More” swag — just a backpack, big old jacket on, spitting. I was interested in artists that took on a character. The reason why I don’t read comic books or watch cartoons or believe in superheroes like my other friends was because I’m getting the same thrill out of hip-hop.
I fell in love with Onyx, because I believed they woke up in the morning screaming at each other. And still my favorite artist, Missy Elliott. You know when you’re watching a sport and you’re like, this person is just too cold, too damn good and they can do whatever they want? She was that person to me.
Before there was Drake and people who were rapping and singing, Missy was doing that. That captivated me, and I was moved by that. It made me want to do it. That’s why I loved Drake when I met Drake. If you’re around me, you know for a fact that if you’ve got a little harmony, a little melody in your voice, I’m about to make you sing.
To me, Shawn Carter, Jay-Z, was the god of words. He could’ve rewritten English books. I was introduced to Jay by listening to Biggie. “Lucky Me,” from “In My Lifetime, Vol. 1,” I learned backward and forward. I put it in songs, and I actually start off every show, still, saying words from that song: “And I swear to everything when I leave this earth/it’s gon’ be on both feet, never knees in the dirt/you could try me, [expletive]/but when I squeeze it hurts/fine …” And what’s crazy is we stop the music on that part and the crowd sings the rest of it with me as if I wrote that. But that’s all Jay.
When it comes to B.G., he’s very significant, very specific, because we put songs together -together. That was back when I actually put words on paper. I know exactly his writing style, his technique. It’s impossible for some of that not to rub off on you. But I don’t write anymore.
I was probably about 16, 17 — this is before internet and all that — when I heard a nugget that Jay wasn’t writing. And I didn’t want to ever see a pen or paper again in my life. Jay was my Bible.
Back then, whoever the star was, they would always take on this young protégé. I would always look to that person. When Jay did it, I would look to Bleek. If I’m listening to Puff, I would look to Mase, or I would look for Jada. It was the humility of the big dog to set up a path for the next person to be bigger. And so that’s why I made sure when I got the chance, I was going to run with it.
Nicki Minaj was always into my wording technique, the way I come up with the verse. “Why?” “But why?” “OK, but why?” She’s that kid. She was set on, “I’m the female Weezy.” Nick would change her voice like me, she would actually sound like me sometimes.
Drizzy’s just Drizzy. That “good boy, bad boy, I was on the TV show, but I wish you would play with me” type of stuff.
I was scared, actually, when I called Eminem for a song. That is a monster. He must have the same thing I have with words. Like, we can’t get them out of our heads. Every meaning, every aspect of them. Things that rhyme, we hear it. I already know the gift and the curse that he has. And I love to hear the way he puts it together.
When I was on “The Tonight Show,” I was playing Pictionary. And my thing was Harry Potter. So I drew a pot, and they got that. I drew a man with a face, and I put a bunch of hair around him. They were like, “Wait, he’s hairy.” I’m, like, Harry Potter . We plan our words. At all times.
AZEALIA BANKS
I’ve made a special contribution to hip-hop, and I feel like that gets overlooked a lot of times. Hip-hop is Black culture. People say, “Oh, you make house music, aka white people music.” I’m like, honey, no. House music is Black music. Everything I do is in the spirit of hip-hop.
My first memory of hip-hop, even though I had no clue what was going on, was O.D.B. on Mariah Carey’s “Fantasy” remix. I was like 2, going on 3. And Lil’ Kim’s verse on “All About the Benjamins.” The audacity was just so fab. I remember the video with the fisheye lens, the see-through dress and the blonde wig. And she started off with: “What the bloodclaat?/Wanna bumble with the bee, huh?/Throw a hex on the whole family.” I didn’t know what a hex was until I was maybe 16, but I could spit that [expletive] word for word.
I was a theater kid, and Lil Wayne, for sure, was like a thespian. It was theatrical and the jokes were funny . “Cannon” is probably one of the best Lil Wayne verses ever. [Raps “Cannon” for 30 seconds]
But my favorite rapper of all time is Styles P, from hearing the Lox at block parties. Then we had the DatPiff era, so I would download like, “Ghost in the Machine.” I just like how unrehearsed he is. And the swag. He was talking to you rather than trying to create a fantastical world.
We actually have a song together on my first mixtape. He did it for free. I’ve done collabs with other male rappers that will probably never see the light of day because I wouldn’t sign their record deal. Like, damn, Yeezy — I loved you my entire life and that’s what you do?
I started rapping because I had this boyfriend who rapped and they would do these cyphers. If your bars were wack, they would, like, snatch the blunt from you, you know? I skipped the cypher for like two weeks and I came back with a vengeance. I had to learn all these different words for “firearm.” I wrote “Seventeen” over that Ladytron beat and when they passed me the blunt that day, I came out with: “I’m not the don diva/I’m beyond ya don skeezers/I get cake from quick chicks with long heaters.” They was like, “Ohhhhhh. Shorty, you can rap! You should record that!”
The very first record that I ever recorded was into a microphone in a sock in this guy’s closet, in between all these Supreme jackets. Two weeks later, I was featured on the Fader blog. I blew up overnight and then it was just kind of like, OK, I have a job to do now.
I think that all of that theatrical training definitely helped. When it came to “212,” that white girl Valley Girl voice, I was really just making fun of dumb bitches who come to New York for like two years and are like, I’m a New Yorker !
I think that everyone at XL Recordings forgot that I was 17. I felt like there was no mentorship. Everybody just kind of abandoned me and expected me to know what they wanted.
At the same time, they had just signed Odd Future, who were super, super duper crass. I won’t lie — I was so jealous just watching them put all this love into Odd Future. Just to see them be given the support to be kids. It’s a classic tale of boys can do whatever they want, but girls need to be like, prim and proper. I sent “212” in to XL and they dropped me. It was 100% a bunch of misogynoir.
I was thinking maybe I should go get a GED and go to college. Then I just get this phone call from Nick Grimshaw on BBC Radio 1, and he’s played it like a million times. I didn’t even know what BBC Radio 1 was. And then very quickly you go from getting paid $150 and a bottle of Smirnoff to perform to getting like, 5,000 euros at some weird charity event. I’d never had 5,000 anything all at once in my hands, ever. All I could think was, I’m going to get a weave and a laptop.
One thing leads to another, and then I’m at Karl Lagerfeld’s house. I didn’t even know who Karl Lagerfeld was when he invited me to perform at his house in Paris. I didn’t know what Coachella was when I got booked for Coachella. That Coachella date in 2012, it was like, all right, I’m here. I’m a star.
Jimmy Iovine, the very first day I met him, he said to me, “The best thing you can do for a woman is get the [expletive] out of her way.” He actually bought me my first, like, three pairs of Louboutins, my first Chanel bag, my first real bottle of perfume. He was always a gentleman and he always thought my jokes were funny.
“212” was such an anomaly that no one has been able to successfully build upon it outside of me. What I see is people doing an Azealia Banks impression, and that is partially due to just the belief that a woman couldn’t be the mastermind behind the sound, the aesthetic, the everything. I’m still alive, girls.
There’s no magic in hip-hop now. Hip-hop has been taken from us and used as a weapon against us. No one is talking about anything. Just for the record: All these little new rap girls — they really suck.
LIL B
In 2003, I wrote a book report in middle school that was about hip-hop. That’s as real as it gets, man. From a middle-school me: “Hip-hop to me is an art form, a style, a genre, an influence and a lifestyle. It’s a different type of music style that does not sound like any other type of music. It’s like a baggy, nice, shiny type of clothing.”
I’m walking the beach right now, and I’ve also got an article that I tore out of XXL magazine in 2005, about when Lil Wayne performed at Club Speed, Dec. 19, 2004. It’s hilarious because you’re talking about 500-plus attendees. Now obviously Wayne can do stadiums. That’s my early motivation. Ain’t it crazy later I made the XXL freshmen list? These papers I’ve saved have been through fires. It’s very, very personal to me.
Gucci Mane, Lil Wayne, you know, they set the bar. They set the bar still to this day. It was so much inspiration out here in the Bay, too, from E-40, Too Short, Mistah F.A.B., Turf Talk, Keak da Sneak, listening to 106 [KMEL], listening to Wild 94.9. I feel like I really seen it from a unique perspective.
You’ve got to realize, there was a time where I was the only one doing what I was doing. I was outside at a time when people were saying music was dead, and I was still pushing. It hurt my heart when Nas said hip-hop was dead, and I made it my mission to make sure hip-hop stayed alive. This was before the iPhone.
Just hearing my mom and my dad say they’re proud of me, knowing they have seen me do my thing independently, unsigned. It’s 40, Short, Master P and myself, Brandon McCartney. We did the Jive Records thing with the Pack. I’ve been doing my own thing ever since. I’ve been managing Lil B.
Soulja Boy is a real legend and an inspiration, a pioneer with the music, early on YouTube. He was really at the anime store back then, you know what I’m saying? He don’t get no credit for that. It’s a lot of hype around anime now, but he was going to the store early.
I always looked at myself as giving out swag. I say that humbly. There’s people that have the fire that I see. I appreciate Lil Yachty — he was always holding it down and then taking his career to a whole ’nother level, showing me what’s possible, doing Sprite deals. Future, Tyler, the Creator. Chief Keef — I was changing the game with the music video stuff on YouTube and then he took it the next level. Now I could be influenced off Playboi Carti, you know what I’m saying? And Young Thug took it to the next level.
I’ve still got a lot of homework to do with this hip-hop, right? I need to do my homework on De La Soul. I need to do my homework on Slum Village. I’ve got to really do my Public Enemy homework, you know? What’s the gentleman’s name — MC Serch and his group? A little bit of Beastie Boys homework. It’s so many beautiful people that’s added to this genre and to the culture.
E-40
I call myself the greatest game-spitter of all time. A game-spitter is somebody that spit that slang, the street [expletive], all angles. I might touch down on a pimp. I might touch down on being over the stove, twisting the pot counterclockwise, serving the dope wet. I might talk about when a guy about to get jacked, or about to pull a lick, or when he’s going to get his head tore off, you know? It was whole ’nother angle of the game that the Bay Area was on back then.
I was the first rapper talking about zippers — calling ounces “zippers,” that’s 28 grams. I was the first one calling them “units.” I was the first rapper screaming “choppers” — it came from Chicago, from Al Capone. I could document all that. Everybody’s saying “slaps” — I brought that to the rap game. It came from me, Earl Stevens, E-40, hands down.
So many things didn’t come out of my brain; it came from the streets. When rappers are from the urban community, they talk about their surroundings and what they done picked up here and there — in the pen, wherever they at. That’s me.
In Oakland in the ’80s, the local D-boy would have enough gouda to shoot Too Short some money — it could’ve been $500, it could’ve been a thou-wow — to make a song just about them. Calvin T and Magic Mike, from Richmond, Calif., they were doing the same thing. These are local songs circulating through dubbed tapes. They were a big influence on me.
And Ice-T. He was speaking a language that most of us was living. People don’t give him enough credit. We have a mutual love and respect for each other because game recognize game. He seen my whole hustle in the underground, selling tapes out the trunk of a car.
I was a rapper that invested in myself. We was doing this when Moby Dick was a goldfish. A&Rs didn’t get what we was talking about. A lot of times it would go over their head like a flying saucer, you know what I’m saying? That’s just the same as out there with 8Ball & MJG, Master P. Everybody was doing it independently. When we did independent music we did it by force, not by choice. I signed my distribution deal with Jive Records in 1994. The whole Bay Area followed my blueprint after that.
When I came out with “Ghetto Report Card,” I was 37, 38 years old. My whole career was just revived. It was amazing. I was part of the crunk movement and the hyphy movement at the same time. “U and Dat,” “Snap Yo Fingers” and so on. We had the South and the West Coast.
Imagine if there was streaming back then when we had “Tell Me When to Go,” “Bitch,” “Choices.” We would be diamond on each one of those records. I put new life into the West Coast in 2006. And that’s no ifs, ands or buts. Can’t nobody say I didn’t, with the help of Lil Jon. And it’s never stopped since then.
That’s my role — they call me the Ambassador of the Bay. And I don’t know nobody else there that represents it like me.
EMINEM
My Uncle Ronnie had the “Breakin’” soundtrack. I was, like, 11 years old, and he played me Ice-T’s “Reckless” before I’d seen the movie. Uncle Ronnie used to breakdance and he taught me a little bit, showing me some moves. From that moment I knew there was nothing else — no other kind of music that I would ever like again — aside from rap.
We used to bounce back and forth from Missouri, and shortly after that we moved to Detroit, and we were staying at my Grandma Nan’s house. I had a tape player, and I found WJLB. There was this DJ named the Wizard. He would play from, like, 10 to 11. I would just hit record on my tape and I’d go to sleep and get up for school to see what I got: “Go See the Doctor,” Kool Moe Dee, UTFO. I just wanted everything — give me everything that rap has: Run-DMC, Fat Boys, LL.
Every time LL dropped something it was, like, he was the best, no one’s touching him. LL Cool J was everything to everybody. You know, I always wanted a Kangol.
My first rap, I was 12-ish, when LL Cool J, “Bad,” came out. I would be, like, just walking around my Aunt Edna’s house, thinking of rhymes and writing thoughts down. It was a complete LL bite, but it was something that I dabbled in. I would be sitting in school sometimes and a line would hit me.
And then Run-DMC would drop a new album and you’d be, like, “This is the craziest [expletive] I’ve ever heard.” “Yo, this is as good as rap can get, lyrically.” And then Rakim changed the way people thought about rap.
It just kept advancing to the next level. I was there to watch its conception and its growth. Everybody was trying to one-up each other. It went from rhyming one- or two-syllable words to rhyming four and five and six. Then Kool G Rap came along and he would rhyme seven, eight, nine, 10.
But I was a sponge. I would gravitate towards the compound-syllable rhyming, like the Juice Crew. Lord Finesse, to Kool G Rap, to Big Daddy Kane, to Masta Ace, Redman, Special Ed. I don’t even think I understood why I liked it. I had a couple of friends that had to point out to me how many syllables somebody was rhyming.
And then Treach from Naughty by Nature came along and he was doing all that, too. He was cool, too — his image and everything. I wanted to be him. When the first Naughty by Nature album dropped, that whole summer, I couldn’t write a rap. “I’ll never be that good; I should just quit.” I was so depressed, but that’s all I played for that summer. Proof thought Treach was the best rapper, too. Every time he would drop an album I would just be, like, Son of a bitch.
Nas, too. I remember The Source gave “Illmatic” five mics. I already knew I liked Nas from “Live at the Barbeque” with Main Source, because his verse on that is one of the most classic verses in hip-hop of all time. But I was, like, “Five mics, though? Let me see what this is.”
And when I put it on, “And be prosperous/though we live dangerous/Cops could just arrest me/Blamin’ us/We’re held like hostages.” He was going in and outside of the rhyme scheme, internal rhymes. That album had me in a slump, too. I know the album front to back.
There was three or four years, maybe, where I kind of dipped out of listening to rap. I was so on the grind in the underground. I didn’t have money to buy any tapes. Every dollar, every dime that I had went to either studio time or to buy Hailie diapers.
Tuesday night I would go to the Ebony Showcase on Seven Mile. Wednesday night would be Alvin’s. Friday night would be Saint Andrew’s. And then Saturday would be the Hip Hop Shop.
Proof was hosting open mics at the Hip Hop Shop, and they started having battles. The first one that I got in — it was actually the first battle there — I won. And then the second battle, I won it again. I realized maybe I should try to go out of state. So I would hop in the car with friends and drive down to Cincinnati for the Scribble Jam.
Back then, you had to go off the top of the head. If you didn’t you’d get booed offstage. So I learned from watching Proof that you can freestyle, but just have a couple lines in the back of your head, a couple of punchlines you know you want to use, and then freestyle around that.
Coming up in the battle scene was the greatest thing to happen to me because I knew what lines were going to get a reaction from the crowd. That’s what I would focus on. So when I got signed with Dre, I was trying to translate that to record, to get that reaction. I would picture the listener sitting there and what lines they might react to. I just used that as a formula. Like, “How you gonna breastfeed, Mom?/You ain’t got no tits.”
When the first Onyx album dropped, Sticky Fingaz was so great at saying that kind of [expletive]: “I’m thinking about taking my own life/I might as well, except they might not sell weed in hell.” And Bizarre was really great at that. If we reacted to it, then we thought other people would, too. That shaped my whole career, you know?
BUN B
When I was young, I was immersing myself in the music, but I don’t actually want to become an MC until “Microphone Fiend.” And this is after I fall in love with the Juice Crew — Kool G Rap, Big Daddy Kane became huge influences on me. I’m writing rhymes at this time. The “Microphone Fiend” video comes on “Rap City,” and that’s when I decide I really want to be a rapper, ’cause this is the coolest [expletive] I’ve ever seen in my life, and I really want to be seen as this cool.
You don’t really start hearing Houston hip-hop until KTSU starts playing it. That’s the radio station for Texas Southern University. There were guys like R.P. Cola, Billy Dee, these were the guys that were actually in the clubs having freestyle battles. Around that same time as Akshen, but that’s still very under the radar. “Another Head Put to Rest,” that’s not playing on the radio. It’s too much cursing. You hear “Car Freak” and stuff like that, but it really doesn’t come together until the Geto Boys “Balls and My Word.” That’s when the idea of making music and putting it out was not as far-fetched as it seemed.
I start writing about ’88. Juice Crew, Rakim, that’s the technical level at which I’m aspiring to operate. The use of metaphors, manipulating the English language, rhyming mid-word, putting together as many similar-sounding words as possible. And I feel like I should be pretty good at it because I’m pretty good at school, right? I make really good grades in English. I know more words than most of my friends. I should be able to figure out how to incorporate some of that into rhymes. I tried it initially, it was terrible. Like [expletive] would’ve had to literally sit down and get a dictionary. And people don’t really want to do that.
A lot of this realization is Pimp’s influence on me. He was like, man, this [expletive] gotta jam. People gotta be able to see theyself when they see you and hear theyself when they hear you. If you want to be good on a technical level and compare your rhymes to rocket ships and cellular biology or molecular biology or whatever, that’s cool. But at the end of the day, people gotta dance to that [expletive].
When we first started putting out music, I say there might have been 50 rappers in all of Houston at the time. But when we first went to New York in ’92 to sign with Jive, the first three white people we met in New York were rappers. Like the bellman: “So what are you guys doing here? You rap? Oh man, I’m a rapper!” Pizza guy: “You’re here to sign a record deal? Put me on, I’m a rapper.” The driver the next day: “You guys rap, I guess? You’re going to the Jive building. I do a little something-something.” And all of these guys white! The weed guy was like, “You guys are rappers? I rap too.” And he was white as well.
In the earliest years of my career, I wanted to try to vocalize how hard I felt I was and how tough I felt I was. I eventually realized it was not about being the hardest, it was really about being just hard enough and being able to be enough of what was needed in that room at that time.
So if I’m in a room with a bunch of Ruthless Records [expletive], there’s a certain way I gotta move and carry myself, but eventually when I get to the mic, everybody understands who we are. Same thing would happen if I would’ve ended up in a room with Q-Tip and Busta in ’92. There’s certain assumptions that people are gonna draw about each other. And when I actually show my talent, that’s the unifying point.
I was fascinated by wordplay and that was the dominant style of music coming from the East Coast. But then I’m also from a very small town. There’s a lot of gangster [expletive] going on in my town. Crack is coming into the city. And so I know that if I rap, I also have to be a reflection of that.
At one point I hear this song, Volume 10’s “Pistolgrip-Pump,” which sonically sounds nothing like us, much less anything at the time. The beat was dope. Then I hit the hook and I’m like, wait a minute, that’s me. It’s from one of my lines in “Pocket Full of Stones.” I never asked for a dime. I didn’t think that rappers charged other rappers. When I heard it, I was more like, damn, they know my [expletive] on the West Coast! And then he gets on another record and is like, “‘Pistolgrip’ was a hit!/UGK, I’d like to say what’s up.” I’m like, this is crazy!
We met Biggie in ’94. We’re on promo with Jive Records, and this is literally within three to five days of Craig Mack’s “Flava in Ya Ear” going gold. So we’re there, Craig’s there, Big’s there, and everybody’s really fawning over Craig Mack. But obviously we wanted to meet Biggie.
We go over and we introduce ourselves and he’s like, “I know who y’all are. Y’all are on the ‘Menace’ soundtrack. Y’all got the ‘Pockets’ joint — I was out there with Eiht, I told him y’all got the best record on the soundtrack.”
We were very flattered and taken aback at that. And keep in mind, this is when we’re in possession of the bootleg from Biggie, but I’m trying not to allude to that. I don’t know how he might receive it.
We had weed, we offered to smoke with him. So we go out to the car to smoke and I offer him the front seat and he’s like, nah, I’m gonna sit in the back if that’s OK. And he never closes the door on the car. I’m trying to hotbox, right? I’m trying to get the doors closed, get the windows up, but he’s not going for it. And come to find out, ’cause he didn’t really know us like that, he didn’t want to sit in the front seat ’cause he didn’t want dudes he didn’t know behind him. And he needed the door open because he would need a little bit of a head start if he needed to make a quick getaway.
KOOL KEITH
I was a popular dancer in high school and I saw rap from the B-boy stance when rap was being plugged up into the streetlights. When I was going to school, the Cold Crush Brothers were going to school with me. It wasn’t until the mid-80s that I started rapping, which turned into Ultramagnetic MCs.
I met Ced Gee when we were going to high school together and we formed the group. We listened to the Treacherous Three, who would use a lot of big words in their raps. They were using words nobody was using. We looked at the Treacherous Three like, This is the point of hip-hop. I want to rhyme like this. I don’t want to do the “Yes, yes y’all, ya don’t stop the body rock!” They put pen to paper. Now rap was about vocabulary. It was no longer baby rhymes.
T La Rock was one of the most high-tech rappers at that time with the technical words. I was hanging with Greg Nice. We had a chance to see everybody from the super old-school acts all the way up to Spoonie Gee, Run-DMC and Whodini. They were all out with records before we even had a deal.
At the time there was a craze happening where everyone was using TV-show themes. So we waited for that craze to go by and that’s when rap started going heavy with the samples. It became MC Shan, Eric B. & Rakim and then Ultra. So when “Ego Trippin’” came out, that was like the third record that shocked everybody like, Wow, this is different!
We pressed up 500 copies of “Ego Trippin’.” We hit Red Alert off, and I delivered the records straight to Marley Marl’s house. I remember Big Daddy Kane was in the kitchen. That’s where Marley had his mic set up.
Marley was really open to it. He spun it on WBLS. And then I gave Chuck Chillout a copy in person. I remember me and Funkmaster Flex used to talk in his car about different rappers.
To be honest, a lot of rappers were jealous of Ultramagnetic MCs, but when “Ego Trippin’” came out, there was nothing you could do because every car had it playing up and down the block. You would hear it in every project. All you would hear is “MC’s Ultra! MC’s Ultra!” everywhere you went. I would go through the projects and people would scream and we didn’t even have a video out. I wasn’t popular on TV. I don’t know how people had a vision of knowing a person without even seeing them on social media, on Instagram. Back then it was more about the flyers and posters and people seeing you on a show with Boogie Down Productions.
If you listen to the second verse of “Ego Trippin’,” I was just making the words fit on a beat. I wasn’t trying to rhyme: “Through the scientific matter I probe for evidence/Leading melodies obtaining slight positive beams/Of the average formulation, apply mechanically.” And people didn’t even know what I was doing because the first verse of the record was more straight rap. The beat was so hot and the chorus was so dramatic that you didn’t even realize the second verse didn’t rhyme.
At that time, I liked Lakim Shabazz. I liked Latee’s “This Cut’s Got Flavor” and stuff like that. But once we were out, I tried not to follow rap in a lyrical way because I thought that if I listened to everybody’s rhymes a lot, I wouldn’t have my own originality. I used to buy funk records like Con Funk Shun because I was a dancer. I bought Undisputed Truth and Cameo. My main inspiration was Slave. That’s why Ultra’s music was like that. I didn’t grow up on jazz. I didn’t know about Ron Carter or Ronnie Laws.
When I started the Dr. Octagon project, I had so much material piled up that I had to break it up into different characters. People thought I was just being weird, but I was being a businessman. A lot of artists were stuck as just one person. They had to do a record deal with that same style again. But I had a lot of ideas. I think that’s why Parliament-Funkadelic opened my mind up. They had Brides of Funkenstein, they had Sir Nose, Funkadelic and Parliament. George Clinton broke his group up into so many different parts. So that’s what I felt like: a one-person Parliament-Funkadelic.
During that time, I tended to like the peculiar people. I liked the artists that had flows, like Fiend and Mac from No Limit. But a lot of the rappers couldn’t adapt to different sounds. That made me feel like, OK, I’m going to create a Dr. Octagon. I’m going to create a Dr. Dooom. I’m going to create a Black Elvis. But all of those characters are part of me.
KRAYZIE BONE
My first memory of hip-hop was when my older brother brought home the LL Cool J “Radio” tape. I remember him coming in the house and he threw the tape on the bed and was like, “You don’t know nothing about this.” And I put the tape into the radio and I never took it out. Never took it out, you know what I’m saying? I was like 12, 13. That’s what made me start writing my own raps, because I wanted to learn LL Cool J’s songs. I loved “You’ll Rock.” I still bump that to this day. The beat was hard, the lyrical flow — LL was before his time on that.
So I started writing down his lyrics and I saw the blueprint on how to write a rhyme. I wrote my own one day and I never stopped. All the songs I liked that I wanted to learn, I would write the lyrics down. I liked the continuous flow, like Big Daddy Kane and Biz Markie, Dana Dane and Slick Rick. We never liked when rappers would flow and they would pause and then they would go back.
The Bone Thugs style developed by just basically being in cyphers together. We would smoke weed either in my mother’s basement or at whoever’s house we was at, and we’d just start rhyming, working on our harmonies and everything. We knew each other and we knew we could rhyme but when the other four would say the ad-libs, it would sound like we was harmonizing. It’s nothing we did on purpose — we just started doing it and that was our style one day. We didn’t even know what we had until we would rap for people and they’d be like, “Y’all sound like the rapping Temptations or something.” Then when we got with Eazy-E, he would tell us, “This style is different. Y’all singing like singers, too.”
Before hip-hop, I was a Michael Jackson fanatic. I was a New Edition fanatic. R&B, that’s all my parents played. So I know about all the old-school R&B like the Isley Brothers. We just started mixing in some of those flows. If you listen to “1st of tha Month” and “Days of Our Livez,” we just started picking old-school songs and putting our harmonies to it.
Singers liked what we were doing. When our management got a call about Mariah Carey wanting to do a record with us, at the time, we didn’t even really understand how big Mariah Carey was. We knew of her, but we were so wrapped up in our newfound fame, we were just in our own little world. So, like, we almost didn’t even go. We was on the plane contemplating, about to get off the plane, but something just made us stay on the plane.
When we got there, she said basically she loved our style. She loved our flow, how different it was. I’m glad we didn’t get off the plane.
We also got love from Bobby Womack when he was alive. I got a chance to meet his daughters and they told me, “Yo, my father loved y’all music. He played y’all music all the time. He turned us on to y’all.” That really shocked me. I was like, Wow, the O.G. It made me feel good because I came up loving his music. It was cool to tell my parents, like, “Hey, guess who listens to Bone? Bobby Womack.” My pops was like, “What?!’” He loved that.
FABO
We came up off Michael Jackson, my mama listening to James Brown, my grandpa was really into Curtis Mayfield, my uncle listening to Run-DMC, New Edition. We were singers — I came up in the era where you were still going out there trying to sing to the girl to catch her, you know?
My very first memory of hip-hop was sitting down with my brother, rewinding Bone Thugs-n-Harmony trying to learn “1st of tha Month”: “Wake up, wake up, wake up.” That was when it really hit me, like, this is what I want to do.
I’m from Bankhead, so I seen Kilo, the dope boy in the neighborhood who had made it, in his money-green Cadillac all the time. And I came in the rap game up under Raheem the Dream. These was our local heroes. They mean everything. That was our inspiration, but the world didn’t know them like that.
I was freestyling, winning the local talent show every week. And I started singing this song called “If You’re Down on Your Luck Say (Ow),” and everybody started singing it.
In the apartments, it was me and Young Dro. We ended up sparring against each other all the time, freestyling. This guy takes us down to Raheem the Dream. The rest is history.
When we left Raheem, I went to Shawty Lo. I’m in high school, and I was playing the tenor drums at the time. He was taking care of us. I moved right in and we started recording. He wasn’t a rapper at this time, mind you. Never asked me for rent, never asked me for anything. He did these basketball tournaments where all the neighborhoods would come play each other. That’s what brought a lot of Atlanta together.
When Jeezy and Gucci was going at it — that was when everybody in Atlanta was just, like, boom. I remember being in the club when “Stay Strapped” was out — like, “We need a song.” Killer Mike, T.I., all of them had those songs bunking. That was the moment. The old 112 was just closing down and Visions was the hottest club in Atlanta.
Lo used to always be pushing us. When Dem Franchize Boyz jumped off, I developed my style right there. I was like, they’re trying to rhyme like this, so I’m going to do something totally different. I started yelling and screaming on everything. I was, like, ain’t nobody doing this.
Right to this day, put “Tatted Up” on — you can put it up against any Grammy that’s ever been won. Just the end of the song — [ sings ] “Barbaraaaaaa!” People would be like, “Who is Barbara!?” That’s what I heard in the track, bro.
I’ve always been dancing. When the other guys made “Lean Wit It, Rock Wit It,” I was, like, “No, this is our movement.” I felt like I should’ve been given some type of credit. You can hear me on “Betcha Can’t Do It Like Me” — I felt offended.
I seen them on “Rap City” or something, and they asked who came up with the dance. And this guy goes, “Me.” I leaned back in my chair and was like, “Yo, turn the beat on.” And I got right in the booth. The snap era was intense, the competition.
With “Laffy Taffy” we went straight to MTV — BET wasn’t playing the song. We didn’t understand what crossing over was. We didn’t know that this was another level — like, “You’re No. 1.” I think we wanted to prove for a while that we wasn’t pop.
Anytime you see something that you don’t understand or that’s different, you’re going to look at it with that side-eye, you know? Nas said “hip-hop is dead,” I seen Ghostface Killah imitating the leg thing. But I’m just trying not to eat ketchup sandwiches anymore, dude.
I think when Busta Rhymes kicked it with us and jumped on the album, we started getting a little respect. And then Twista jumped on the record. People was like, “OK, well, these guys must have something.” These are two different characters from two different places that bought into the movement.
Future, Young Thug, all these cats showed me love. Drake, when he put that “snappin’ like you Fabo” in “Nice for What,” bro, my grandmother was like, “Drake said your name!” I’m one of the only artists to have a No. 1 single and have my name called in another No. 1 single.
PITBULL
My first memory of hip-hop would have to be around third grade when I first heard 2 Live Crew. Bass music was basically taking over Miami and, you know, you always wanna listen to what you’re not supposed to be listening to. You could hear it in the corner spots where they were washing cars and the flea markets. Another place where I would find music was this thing called the Box, that was basically something that you could see on local television. At the time that was our MTV before MTV.
But bass music has always been about underground. It’s all about pirate stations. It was all about, No. 1, finding a way to get this music out because nobody would believe in it. No. 2, it was too nasty, too dirty, too raunchy for them. And so we always had to find ways to get this out.
It always feels like we’re the underdogs in Miami, because we’re used to being counted out. Pirate radio, independent labels — that independence allows us to maneuver and navigate differently so we are not, for lack of a better term, choked by a major corporation or company.
I started the whole freestyle thing when I was about 15, 16 years old. I went to a lot of different schools in Miami. Lived in a lot of different neighborhoods, good neighborhoods, bad neighborhoods, worse neighborhoods. And Miami being the melting pot that it is, it allowed me to dibble and dabble in different genres and different cultures. So I could spit at you in English, Spanish, throw some patois at you, throw a little Creole in there as well.
A teacher happened to change my life. Her name is Hope Martinez, and she gave me an invitation to a DMX video shoot. I ended up battling an artist from the Ruff Ryders called Drag-On. It went eight rounds. I did my job, and Irv Gotti pulled me to the side and asked me, “Hey, do you write music?” I said, no, I just freestyle. He said, “Yeah, freestyle is great, but it don’t make no money.”
My brothers had a lot of Eric B. & Rakim, Pete Rock & CL Smooth, Black Moon — they had a lot of hip-hop. But what I really related to is when I heard Nas, “Illmatic,” when he’s using lines like “Got my first piece of ass, smokin’ blunts with hash/Now it’s all about cash in abundance.” You know, these are things I can relate to, these are things going on in my neighborhood.
B.I.G. was such an amazing storyteller. Pac was a revolutionist, Snoop had a flow that you never heard before and Jay-Z was the ultimate hustler-slash-entrepreneur at the time, and I grew up around a lot of entrepreneurs. They had their startups. They were looking for angel investors. They just had a different product. It was called cocaine.
Latins have always been involved in hip-hop, from the days of graffiti and breakdancing. You had your Mellow Man Ace, you had your Kid Frost. You even had Gerardo, which is what really broke Interscope Records. Then you had Cypress Hill, where you had a Mexican and a Cuban represented at the same time. And then you have Fat Joe, and from Fat Joe, you have Big Pun. Pun was arguably one of the best rappers ever in the history of hip-hop. He just didn’t have the time to prove himself.
Now remember I grew up around merengue and salsa. And then around dancehall reggae, and you have reggaeton, all this that you could throw in the pot with rap. I was never afraid to think out of the box. People don’t want to try that because it might mess with their credibility. I say if you’re worried about your credibility, you were never credible in the first place.
The person that really pulled me to the side, this had to be about 2002, was Lil Jon. He said, “You need to rap more in Spanish. I see how you flipping it. I see how you taking it in and out, but you need to rap more in Spanish.” So he’s the one that really saw it and said, there’s gonna be a lane here. And sure enough, the lane exploded, in the middle of hip-hop, crunk and reggaeton. And that’s where I was at.
DJ JUBILEE
I started DJing in 1982. I went to college in ’84. I was on the microphone then. I was doing all the parties in North Louisiana, Grambling State University. But when I graduated and I came home, I started DJing the high school dances. I used to bring local rappers in, but they used to come in cussing so much I couldn’t really put them on the mic because we at a high school dance. So we started making up certain dances after that. When I saw somebody do something, I’d just name it.
A friend of mine named Tyrone Jones had did a slide dance one time, we was at Grambling State University during the homecoming. So when I went back to New Orleans, I started doing the dance and then I just put my name on it. I started saying “do the Jubilee, do the Jubilee.” Then the next week, two other guys in the St. Thomas named Chris and Beanhead, they came and did the Beenie Weenie.
So now every week, somebody come with a different dance. We got different areas bringing up different dances. You got the Magnolia came with the Eddie Bow, the Calliope Projects came with the Jerk, and the St. Thomas came with the Jubilee All, the KC, the Law Law, the Eldon Delloyd, the Sissy Leroy, the Sissy Chris. So we had multiple dances that’s going on every week, and that what’s made my high school dances the livest high school dances during the summertime.
So after that one day I just start making up a rhyme to it. “Stop, pause, stand up tall/Yeah, do the Jubilee, all/Do the Jubilee, all.” And next week, “Stop, pause, pass the towel/Yeah, and do the Eddie Bow.” And before you know it, I had like 26, 27 dances. I was forced to try to get it on an album because when I recorded in the club live, a friend of mine who was another DJ started selling the tape. He got $30!
That’s when DJ Jubilee was born. When I did “Jubilee All” and I dropped the tape, we put out 500 tapes in the stores, they all left the stores in five minutes. People started calling back, “Man, you got more?” So that took me away from the DJing to the music business.
For bounce, there’s the originators: you got TT Tucker, DJ Jimi, Everlasting Hitman, Pimp Daddy. Those was the rappers in the foundation of our music. When I changed the whole game from rapping to dancing, then you had multiple artists that came after me — Choppa, Hot Boy Ronald, Big Freedia, Katey Red.
When I started saying, “Back that thang up, back that thang up,” I didn’t know that that was going to take off like it did. “Get Ready, Ready!” was already hot when my “Back That Thang Up” came out. You know how girls started bending over and then walking up back into you?
Once I hit that chorus line — “First ya wiggle ya leg, cause ya ’bout to get rough/Won’t ya bend it on over/Now back that thang up, back that thang up” — that really influenced the whole city. Women started shaking it even more. But the best part about my stuff there? All of it was made up in the street at a block party. It was made up at a high school dance.
I signed a multimillion-dollar deal with Tommy Boy — 1998, I was hot, they flew me down to Miami, I did the Impact Convention, $100,000 signing bonus. It was supposed to be a seven-album deal, $3 million. I still got the contract. But when I came back a couple of months later, they changed their phone numbers on us. I’m still kind of like puzzled how it happened. I dropped the song in ’98. I was hot all the way through ’98.
When ’99 came around, somebody said Juvenile got a song called “Back That Thang Up.” I didn’t hear it at first, but a kid at the high school played for me. He was shooting a video at City Park in New Orleans, so I went to the video shoot. He had a little rhyme to it and that catch phrase, “back that thang up,” he did it a little different. We went to court. We tried to prove copyright infringement, but they didn’t see it that way. I lost the lawsuit. But I think I really influenced it because he knew my song was the hottest.
His blew up, took off. If you ever noticed, he says, “Cash Money Records taking over for the ’99 and the 2000.” Well, I dropped this in January ’98. But years passed by, we’re still friends today. We still do concerts today. We’re all grown. That was supposed to be my time for me to blow up, to make all my money. But I guess God didn’t plan it that way.
STYLES P
That era, the late ’80s and ’90s, was like the Marvel Universe but for rappers — same universe, different heroes. It felt like we were witnessing the evolution, the growth of this thing we have.
What I felt was always great was the Native Tongues, from De La Soul, A Tribe Called Quest to Queen Latifah to Black Sheep. It was always dope to have people — especially during that time period when it was pretty rough in the ’80s, early ’90s — have that amount of confidence to be different. It solidified how dope they were, because most people were just emulating what was hot. I think De La and Tribe was good especially for young fellas on the block who didn’t want to be a drug dealer, you know what I’m saying? To know I could be cool and not be into violence. I thought that that was an important element to add into what was going on.
In our lane, we were looking at Mobb Deep, M.O.P., Wu-Tang, those three immediately come to mind. Nas kind of ushered in our age class, and what was going on with the youth outside during that time period. He was a child of the grandmasters, I would say. He was definitely a product of Kane, Kool G Rap, KRS-One and Rakim, but mixed with what was going on outside at that time. We’re getting cars and chains and nice gear and all of that off of the streets, but we into our rhymes. The Golden Era babies is what I like to call us. I don’t think before that nor after that was ever as competitive as that time period.
Kool G and Kane are on “The Symphony,” but there is no Kane and KRS song, no Kane and Rakim song. In the ’90s, though, you was hopping on verses with each other, you got people from different boroughs, different places. You couldn’t be trash during that era — you was not getting recognized. I would never disrespect those who came before me, but there was people out when Rakim, Kane, Kool G Rap, KRS, EPMD, Jungle Brothers, all of them was out that was absolute trash and still getting recognition, getting honored, getting love. During Mobb Deep, Wu, us, Nas, Hov, Big, Rae, Ghost, you couldn’t say a trash verse or you was trash. Our whole career was that competition. I definitely believe people got scared to put us on their records.
But let’s even take albums out the mix. With mixtapes, you wanted to be in that No. 1 slot. So if you know anything about the Lox in the mixtape era, we was always the No. 1 slot. I remember going to DJ Clue sessions and seeing different artists there and going, oh, we’re gonna absolutely make the illest record. This gotta be No. 1 when the tape come on. I remember doing the Stretch Armstrong freestyle going, oh no, we gotta burn this. This is Stretch. This is getting heard.
And then after that period, everybody’s all super friendly. Internet fame and Instagram and Twitter and all of this to where it’s a lot of fluff. Celebrities like being with other celebrities, but they wasn’t trying to burn nobody on the mic. I can’t say the whole era is guilty — Cole is gonna try to burn you, Kendrick’s gonna try to burn you. But that don’t stand for the whole. They just rather stand with each other, take a picture and be dope, get in the studio, make a catchy song but not really try to burn each other. So I feel fortunate we came from the most competitive time period in hip-hop that may ever exist.
I’m from the Lox. When you’re in a group, that natural sense of competitiveness comes out. You want the best for the group, but nobody ever wants to be second fiddle. You don’t wanna get ate. Never. I never make a verse and go, I want to have the least favorite verse. Never. I always want the best verse. If it doesn’t happen, I’m cool and I’m comfortable and it is what it is. It’s like ballplayers getting on the court. Yeah, you on your team and you want the team to win, but who goes, “I want him to win M.V.P.”? Nobody.
SLUG
When I first became aware of “Rapper’s Delight,” it was my dad’s music. It was him playing it in his car, right next to Earth, Wind & Fire. I remember it reminding me a little bit of “Sesame Street.” It wasn’t until Run-DMC happened that I was like, this is not my dad’s music. I think he was not into it, maybe? And that made me go, oh, you don’t like that? I love it.
Melle Mel, I love him to death. He’s probably my first favorite rapper. But he was an old man to me. Run-DMC, even though they were older than me, it didn’t have that feeling. These are teenagers yelling at me. Run-DMC made me start buying records. They pushed me to become a full-time 11-year-old advocate in South Minneapolis.
By ’88, the golden year when all the great records came out, I had a crate of records, really good ones. I knew how to mix, so I was able to make blend tapes for people at school. Also in ’88, I started rapping in talent shows, but not because I wanted to be a rapper. It was just more eyes on me. I would’ve been a breakdancer. I would’ve been a backup dancer for you.
There was an older rapper, Spawn, who wanted me to be his DJ. At one point, he was like, Hey, you still rap? Why don’t you do a song with me instead of just being the DJ? The first song that I rapped on with him was very Das EFX-like. He did the production, very Beatnuts-influenced. And I’m rapping iggity piggity diggitys. I had not found my voice yet. I was still in that abyss of I can do iggitys, I can do a high voice like Sadat X, I know how to write straightforward like Ice Cube. I could do my version of all these people that I loved. It’s so far removed from what I eventually became known for.
Me and Spawn would show up at battles. I was a little younger. I was a little feistier. People saw me as a target back then. I didn’t care if I won, which is the most dangerous kind of battle because I will say some [expletive] that was super mean or harsh or degrading, and didn’t even care if it rhymed. So I was also creating adversaries, and that played as much of a role as reinforcing to me that I’m supposed to do this as any validation from the audience.
I worked retail at the time. And so I was as tapped in as anybody in the city could be. I was looking at Rawkus, they had some money behind it that they didn’t ever talk about. Seeing L.A. and what was happening with Freestyle Fellowship and that scene there, all amazing artists, knowing they get a lot of attention. They’re critical darlings.
I looked at all this like, y’all don’t know what real independence is. We’re here in Minneapolis where nobody’s checking for it. The only thing more independent than us is a rapper in Des Moines. Like, I would sleep on your couch in Dallas in order to show up the next day and rap for 20 minutes in the clothes that I slept in the night before. I really didn’t give a [expletive].
It gave me a freedom of nobody’s really listening, so I can take risks maybe that I wouldn’t be able to take if I was signed to Tommy Boy. I’m glad I said Tommy Boy, because that brings me to De La, who were a huge influence on the type of risks that I wanted to take.
I feel like I always kind of gravitated towards the people who were like, how do I either intentionally stand out or how do I express myself how I want to and still sound good?
Early on, when a rap crew would drop an album and all my friends would be like, oh my God, Grand Puba is so good, I would be like, what? No, Sadat X is the one. Kool Keith was the one in Ultramag. Everybody else was kinda like, oh, Ced Gee, he’s really rapping. What is Kool Keith talking about? I don’t care what he’s talking about — listen to him. Zev Love X, the style that he wrote with. De La, the style that they wrote with, specifically Posdnuos, but also Trugoy. I love A Tribe Called Quest. What I liked about Q-Tip’s style was that he would just figure out a way to say it that nobody’s ever said it like that before.
The emotional storytelling I ended up doing had less to do with an audience and more to do with what kind of life experience I was trying to have. I was heavily under the influence of the romanticism of people like Charles Bukowski. The drinkers and the tragedies. I wasn’t much for parties, but I liked caves. I liked dark spaces with a couple of people getting wasted, talking until the sun comes up, and then waking up the next day and not remembering what we did. I was fueled by waking up and not knowing where I was. It was a blurry couple of years, but it was very impactful because it was at the same time that my career was starting to do things.
People were validating the [expletive] that I was writing, and they were saying things to me not about my rapping, not about the songs, but about the actual words. All of this is feeding into my ego, and so I leaned into it because of how good it felt. And because, you know, let’s keep it simple, whatever traumas I had as a child needed to be dealt with. This was my self-medication for it. I didn’t know yet that the easiest colors to paint with are the darker colors.
It would’ve been this way if I had been a plumber, though. I would’ve been a messy plumber.
STIC
My older brother, who is eight years my senior, had brought some records home, and it was something that I had never heard. We were in Shadeville, dirt road Florida. We weren’t in the Bronx. He tells me, “This is called hip-hop. There’s a DJ and there’s a rapper, an MC.” He was like, “We’re going to do hip-hop.” I was maybe 8, 9. It was this group called Whistle, “Just Buggin’.” OK. Boom. And then my job was to start studying.
I would write LL Cool J’s rhymes, I would write KRS-One’s rhymes, I would write Big Daddy Kane’s rhymes on notebook paper. I didn’t have none of these terms for the technical things at that time, but I did it based on the breathing. “OK, this is where he’s taking a breath.” So I’d start another line.
I also listened to other music besides just New York. Too Short was a huge influence on me. I used to try to remember all them 80,000-bar verses he had.
I got kicked out of high school for rapping, actually, at a Black History Month assembly. They said it incited a riot.
I was known as the little rapping dude, and my teacher in ninth grade, Ms. Green, was the only Black lady I had seen in the school system with a natural ’fro. She stopped me in the hallway one day and she goes, “Do you know that in all the history of this school, in this racist institution, y’all ain’t never even had a Black history assembly?”
She was like, “I’m going to give you an opportunity: You can take your talent and do something with it. If you write a rap for Black history, I’mma let you perform at the first Black history assembly this school has ever seen.” And I was like, “Uhhh, I get to rock? Bet.”
She took me to the library — I remember because I skipped lunch — and she pulled out these three books. The first page I open up, I see Huey P. Newton. And I’m like, “Who is this?” Because it look like my cousin Carlo, right?
I ended up writing a song titled “Black As I Can Get.” What they seemed to have a big problem with was, “I ain’t no Uncle Tom/To hell with Uncle Sam.” When I said that, they cut the mic off, turned the lights on and everything. Next thing you know it was a melee.
PHONTE
The most vivid memory of hip-hop that I have is my uncle Brod, he took me to the Fresh Fest when it came to the Greensboro Coliseum. This had to be like ’85, ’86. It was Run-DMC, the Fat Boys and Whodini, and yeah, I think my fate was sealed after seeing that. My uncle bought me a Fat Boys T-shirt. I remember Run going back and forth across the stage, just the stage presence. Whodini — God, rest in peace, Ecstasy. He came out, he had the hat on, “Freaks Come Out At Night,” all of that. I remember just feeling that energy and being like, “Yeah, this is what I want to do.”
The biggest influence on how I rhymed was probably Big Daddy Kane. I always liked how Kane was. He was kind of every man, he could do it all. He could battle, he could talk to the ladies. He could be the mack, the cool pimp guy, whatever. He was smart. He would dance. He was the total package. And so my mic technique was definitely influenced by Kane, and that school of Kool G Rap, Rakim, that’s the cloth that I’m cut from in terms of that super precise flow. Sonic-wise, my biggest inspiration was A Tribe Called Quest. I wanted to rap like Kane, but I wanted our records to sound really lush and kind of beautiful, like a Tribe album, you know what I mean? That was kind of my M.O. and still is in a lot of ways, I think.
The hip-hop that I was raised on, a lot of it was Native Tongues. The Jungle Brothers, A Tribe Called Quest, De La Soul, and even Pete Rock and CL Smooth and Heavy D. There was always an element of singing of vocals in it. To me, it just felt like a natural extension of the records that I grew up listening to. I was born in ’78, so my mother, she always played R&B: Luther, Patti, Stevie. On our first album, “The Listening,” our first single, that’s me singing the hook.
If there was an album that was important to the way I worked, I would split the difference between two albums: “De La Soul Is Dead,” and “Death Certificate” by Ice Cube. I mean, “Death Certificate,” that was a movie on wax. It was no surprise to me that Ice Cube was able to transition into being a director and screenwriter, because he was making movies on his records back then. “Death Certificate,” I mean, I played the words off that album. Nowadays, I think sampling-wise, it would kind of be impossible to make. Well, impossible to legally make. And “De La Soul Is Dead” for reasons that, I mean, are kind of obvious, I can’t say enough about just how much I love that album, how much it influenced me.
When we were coming out, this was ’01, ’02, peak Soulquarians era. So this is the Roots, it’s Slum Village, it’s Common, it’s Black Star. It’s what Rawkus was doing at that time. I was very adamant on, “Listen dude, we’re not competing against other artists in North Carolina or other artists in our city. We’re competing against ‘Fantastic, Vol. 2,’ we’re competing against ‘Like Water for Chocolate.’ We’re competing against ‘Black on Both Sides.’ If we ain’t got nothing that’s coming with this level of smoke, then we just need to leave this alone, because that’s what we’re up against.”
BIG GIPP
My homeboy had to remind me last night, he said, “Gipp, do you realize that you’ve been involved in every era of music from Atlanta?” I said, “Wow.”
This lady named Jean Carne was a soul singer who moved to my neighborhood with her son Joseph — she had this song called “Closer Than Close.” The same year, a guy named Ray Murray moved into our neighborhood.
Once we got together, Ms. Carne bought her son our first studio. And I remember the first time he called us to say, “Yo, my mom bought me a studio,” because that was the same day LL Cool J dropped “Jack the Ripper.” It’s so cemented in my memory. We played that record over and over and over.
Ms. Carne started taking me around — that was my introduction to the music business. She is a cousin of Peabo Bryson. At her house, I got to meet Stevie Wonder, I got to meet New Edition — I got to meet the industry before I got into the industry. Her daughter had a birthday party and we went with the Jackson 5. Atlanta was filled with so many superstars, just because of the civil rights movement: Larry Blackmon was riding around, Curtis Mayfield was riding around, Kool & the Gang was riding around.
Ray started teaching me how to rap. The first records he gave me were the Last Poets, KRS-One, just to give me substance, you know? But I created myself through two artists: Chuck D of Public Enemy and Ice-T. I learned more from Chuck D than in school. Ice-T represented that player lifestyle — that caught a young dude real early. “Power,” I remember looking at the album cover like, “Yo! You’re my guy.”
I was working at a Red Lobster on Campbellton Road as a dishwasher, and one day I was listening to Public Enemy. This guy beside me was from New York. He said, “Hey, Gipp, you like that group?” I said, “I don’t like this group, I love this group.” He said, “Would you like to meet them?” I’m tripping because we in Red Lobster; we washing dishes. “Well, my name’s Mike. Professor Griff is my little brother. They’re coming to town and I’ll take you to meet them.”
He took me down to Fulton County Stadium, and I remember this night not for the concert, but because of the way that Chuck D came to the concert: They were headlining and Chuck D pulled up in a cab. That was something that stuck with me for the rest of my career.
N.W.A changed the whole temperature. It kind of stopped music for a minute. It really put the aggression into rap that wasn’t there before. And then came Geto Boys. When they say, “Who was the greatest in the South?” Scarface, period. As a kid, Scarface was our Ice Cube in the South.
Every day there was new music coming out. It was so exciting. Everywhere you go someone would be, like, “You heard this?” And it was such a change from being a kid in Atlanta, because Atlanta was so soul — there wasn’t nothing bigger than the Commodores, O’Jays, Gladys Knight, Curtis Mayfield.
Goodie Mob, we gave you the heart and soul of where we was from. We gave you everything that brought us up, everything we was made from, what our mothers taught us, how we were raised.
We didn’t come from the projects. I’ve always been around affluent Black people, religious Black people — that’s all I’ve ever seen. Drug dealers and gangsters had never been prevalent in the city because nothing could be bigger than the King. That’s the reason why you had Goodie Mob speaking the way we spoke. Even at a young age, we rapped like grown men. We still gave you “Dirty South,” we still took you into the projects, into the streets. We did all of that. We just did it from a place of always knowing we had something better.
It’s also because we were signed by Babyface and L.A. Reid. We were never on a rap label and all the things our counterparts were getting away with, we couldn’t get away with. I remember when Babyface was like, “A song ain’t a song until you have a hook and a bridge.” And that’s all he ever said to us.
I was very much influenced by wrestling. I got to see artists like Ric Flair, Dusty Rhodes, the Road Warriors all up close. The costumes — I knew what it did to people when they saw it. That’s the reason we started doing that in the Dungeon Family. We knew that if people didn’t understand us, maybe they would remember what we looked like.
Who would’ve knew Outkast and Goodie Mob could’ve been this? I don’t think anybody has a André 3000 in their crew but us. I don’t think anybody got a CeeLo Green in their crew but us. How could you beat somebody like us? All you’ve gotta do is say, “CeeLo, do some Gnarls Barkley,” and it’s over.
Every time the South creates a new style, they find something not to like about it. But if you think about it, we have not stopped since us. When you look at Future — that’s family, from the Dungeon — Ying Yang Twins, Lil Jon, Ludacris, T.I., Jeezy, Gucci Mane. They didn’t like the Migos at first!
As long as Atlanta has a strip club culture, we will always be ahead of everybody. Somebody could take a Young Thug record right out the studio at Patchwerk, go right into Magic City Monday, get the prettiest stripper to dance to it, and it’s a hit record! It’s just something that doesn’t stop working.
UNCLE LUKE
This DJ on the radio named Jimmy G, that was the first time I ever heard rap on the radio. He would put the instrumental on and be like, “One day of victory, one day of defeat/Got to learn to take the bitter with the sweet.” When you look back on it, he was rapping, before “Rapper’s Delight.”
He would play Sugarhill Gang and T La Rock and Divine Sounds and Cold Crush Brothers and Furious Five. I was a member of a record pool, so I started getting these records. I would book the artist and have them come down on PEOPLExpress and perform at my teen discos and clubs. Mantronix, Dr. Jeckyll & Mr. Hyde. Jazzy Jay, that was his first flight ever. Run-DMC, I used to bring them down, pay them 1,200 bucks.
When I brought 2 Live Crew down — that was a California crew then — I wasn’t interested in being no record executive. Nobody did hip-hop in the South, so I decided, you know, I don’t take no for an answer, I’ll do it myself. I was interning at the record station, so when the DJ was in the back snorting cocaine, I would be in there playing the records on the radio, and at the same time playing my commercials for free.
My unique style of DJing was talking on the mic, getting the crowd hype, doing all the chants. So they were like, man, you need to come and be in the group. The first song was “Throw the D.” It was a dance that we created in the party. That was the first Miami bass song.
But to me, Original Concept “Can You Feel It?” and T La Rock “It’s Yours,” those were bass records. “It’s Yours” is the first bass record in my opinion. It had everything that a DJ from Miami wanted in a record. It was slow, but it had the booming bass that everybody played at the party.
In the beginning nobody really latched on, it was like foreign to everybody. The guys from Orlando and Jacksonville started copying what we were doing. The “Dazzey Duks” guys. This other record label out of Fort Lauderdale did songs around the same time we were doing it, that’s where MC Shy D was. And then you had Lil Jon start doing bass, the R&B version of it. And then the guys in Atlanta started doing it, Kizzy Rock and DJ Smurf.
People don’t realize there was no hip-hop in the South. Zero. No Texas, no Georgia, no Memphis, no nothing. I would go do shows in Atlanta, and they would have New York DJs on their radio. And so I tell people I created hip-hop in the South. People have a tendency of trying to put me in a box of just Miami. No, I inspired everybody. Tell me who was before us?
And I inspired people to be independent, too. You had Master P with “Ice Cream Man” and I tried to sign him up and he said, no, I want to do what you doing. And I was like, I respect that. I tried to go to Oakland and sign up Too Short, and he was selling out the trunk his car like me. He was like, no, I’m doing it on my own, and I respected it.
BIG BOI
It was like the X-Men School of Superheroes at the Dungeon, you know? All of us — Outkast, Goodie Mob, Organized Noize — the whole crew down there just sharpening up our lyrical skills, getting ready for the world.
It was me and Dre going back and forth. We’d just rap, trade our bars. That’s how we got our deal, actually. Big Gipp was playing the “Scenario,” Tribe Called Quest remix. He had the Isuzu Trooper and Rico Wade worked at a beauty supply store. Me and Dre was up there and then he played the instrumental and we just rapped for the longest time. And Rico was like, “OK, y’all going to the Dungeon.”
We didn’t know how to count bars or nothing. When we got to the Dungeon, one day we learned formatting. With the Organized Noize masters, they just taught us how to do it. Me, Dre and Cee-Lo were like 16 and 17, and everybody else was pushing 20.
Everybody was there: Cool Breeze, Backbone, Witchdoctor. Then later on you had Future. Everything was organic and it was like a school of brothers. And we all came up together. We didn’t go to school together, but we were in school together.
A group called Parental Advisory was there before us — KP the Great, Mello and Reese. They had a song called “Manifest” and it was a jam, a dark, real gritty song. It was underground. They were the first ones and we came after them.
When we did “Player’s Ball,” we got $100,000 each from our publishing deal at Christmas ’cause it went No. 1. When you come from nothing, $100,000 is like $1,000,000, you know what I mean? We were millionaires before we were 21.
And then what we did was, of course, we bought a car. But we took the rest of the money and we bought equipment, an MPC60 drum machine. A lot of people don’t know that we produced a lot of our records, from “ATLiens” on up to “Idlewild.” Songs like “Ms. Jackson,” “Bombs Over Baghdad,” “Aquemini” — we did those. From watching Organized Noize, it was like, OK, if we’re going to be MCs, how cool would it be to paint the soundscape and write the message?
I’m known for being half of the ’Kast and one whole of me. The globe knows us, whether it’s film and television or at my kids’ recitals or football games. The brand is prestigious. They had an Outkast bobblehead night at the Braves stadium. We didn’t have to perform a song, but the whole city came out to get these bobbleheads. It was beautiful, man.
ROC MARCIANO
We used to breakdance — put down our little cardboard, you know, the early days of Run-DMC blasting out the big speakers: “Peter Piper picked peppers.” I remember just being a kid walking to the park and hearing it on the bass speakers. Like, it sounds foreign, something I’d never heard before in my life.
Just looking at how they were dressed — leather gooses and Adidas and suede Pumas — you really identify with that because that’s what you saw dudes in the neighborhoods wearing. Before that, entertainers, you expect to see them in suits — a little more like costumes.
My first album that I ever had was a Christmas gift, and it was “Follow the Leader.” I remember running home from school to the closest spot we could get to — it was, like, my boy’s crib — because they said the new Rakim video was coming out. The “Let the Rhythm Hit ’Em” video, dude sitting on the Rolls-Royce, it was like a damn movie.
Rakim presented hip-hop in a way where I felt like I could participate. It wasn’t in your face with the showmanship. He was more cool and laid back. You could just tell he was rhyming with his inside voice, displaying intelligence. I felt like I could become an MC.
I wasn’t thinking about making songs. Back in the day, it was more like the cypher, battling, who got the best rhymes. At that age, you don’t even have beats to make songs.
I went to school with Busta’s younger brother. I had a reputation around the town for rhyming. So when Busta was starting to develop his own label, when he was first starting Flipmode, he had reached out.
Being around Busta, I learned how hard it is to be successful in the entertainment business. He’s literally like a cyborg. He doesn’t sleep. Like, he works every day, in the studio every single night, you know? I was, like, man, at what point do you celebrate being rich and famous? Success isn’t a destination, it’s a constant voyage.
The internet changed everything. People are sharing music and you can’t keep things suppressed like you probably could at one point. You know, it only takes one person you like to post something that they like, and then bang, you know?
The transition when it became more about the internet really benefited me, because around that time I couldn’t get a deal with a major label after my Flipmode situation. Like, OK, cool, we don’t need the middleman anymore. We could just upload our music and just let the fans decide what they rocking with.
Not only me — it’s helped a bunch of us become heroes. My guy Bronson, Ka, Westside and Griselda, Hommy, Currensy — I’d say I was instrumental in most of their startups. It’s just mutual respect. Lil B, you know what I’m saying? That’s definitely somebody I linked up with that probably people wouldn’t have expected me to be a big fan of. I like that he’s fearless.
Young Thug, too. When Thug came on the scene I was, like, Man, this dude’s a genius. This is like James Brown 3000! I don’t know what he’s saying, I just know that sounds funky .
You know, living in New York City most of my life, I’ve never heard MF Doom on the radio once. And he’s a legend. You could see the disconnect. Doom was doing this before all of us, this independent grind.
To a certain degree, I would say Long Island artists are slighted. Rakim, EPMD, De La Soul, MF Doom, myself — it’s a lot of heat coming out of Long Island, you know what I’m saying? And Prodigy is from Long Island. I feel like saying it’s unsung would be untrue. But we definitely have a steeper hill to climb than maybe if we were from Brooklyn or Queens.
ROXANNE SHANTE
Nipsey Russell was a comedian who had the ability to make words rhyme anytime, about anything. My first time being exposed to him was on “Hollywood Squares” or something, and he went on from the moment he started to the moment he left the show. I said, “Yeah, I can do that.”
I remember trying it for the entire day, from the moment I got off the bed to when I brushed my teeth, when I’m in the kitchen doing dishes, and by the end of the day, I felt like I had it down pat. I guess that was the origin of Roxanne Shanté.
I grew up in Queensbridge public housing — the largest housing project in the world — going to park jams, when neighborhood DJs would bring out their equipment and their speakers. I remember the very first time ever going to listen and hearing, “Bertha’s going to be there!” So, I’m thinking she’s this woman that brings this party. Later on, I found out that Bertha was actually a speaker.
Once you went to a park jam in Queensbridge, it was something that was in you. It’s like being young and leaving a karate movie and all of a sudden you want to kick, you want to chop, you want to try it. You felt like, I got to be able to do this.
The acoustics in the hallway in the projects have a little echo to it. For some reason the beat sounds really good when you bang on the wall in the projects, or if you bang on a stair railing, or even in the elevator. We would just rhyme, which is what I nicknamed the Nipsey Russell syndrome, because sometimes you can’t cut it off.
When hip-hop started, I was 3. I didn’t get a chance to be exposed to MCs from the Bronx. For me, everything was Queens. We didn’t travel to the Bronx like that. I think every borough has its own unique origin of hip-hop.
I came in as a battle rapper. By the time I was 15 years old, they wouldn’t allow me to even enter into MC contests anymore. “Is this the little girl with the braces? No, she can’t enter.” It actually became a source of income from my household. We would find flyers. “Oh yes, let me go get that money.” There weren’t any other women that were like me because I was willing to battle male, female, whoever came along.
That’s why my first record happened to be a battle record and an answer record to “Roxanne Roxanne” by UTFO. Everyone was playing it throughout the projects, and I love the beat because it’s one of those easy beats that you can do on the wall: boom, boom, boom-boom.
For “Roxanne’s Revenge,” I actually wasn’t trying to make a record. I was going to do laundry and hip-hop producer Marley Marl, who happened to live right above the laundromat, said, “Hey, listen, I need you to come to my house. I heard that you can rhyme. It’s not going to take you long.”
I said, “You’re right, it’s not going to take too long. So, let me go put my clothes in the laundry.” When I went up to his house, he played the instrumental of “Roxanne Roxanne,” and I just did a freestyle, you know, using my Nipsey Russell syndrome. I finished it, and I went back downstairs and did laundry. I never wanted to make records or pursue a hip-hop career. I never wanted to do any of that.
There was over 86 response records that were made just for Roxanne Shanté, and we will never have that again. One of the surefire ways in order to be heard at the time, especially during and after the Roxanne Wars, was to make a record about Roxanne Shanté, because she will answer it. She’ll battle anybody.
I was supposed to get a pair of western Sergio Valente jeans, because Marley Marl worked at the factory. Growing up in the projects, you would do anything for a pair of jeans. That seemed like a fair exchange, but I never got the Sergios. I need to say that: I got a hell of a career, but I never got the jeans.
BUSTA RHYMES
I had a couple of big homies that was real grown. I was still in my single-digit years, and they had these Five-Percent Nation brothers in my neighborhood. They were the ones circulating a lot of the tapes — Kool Moe Dee vs. Busy Bee and the Cold Crush Brothers battles. And as “Rapper’s Delight” started playing on the radio, they had an underground station called WHBI, I think 105.9, that used to come on at 2 o’clock in the morning until like 5.
The Supreme Team used to spin on there. The Awesome Two, Special K and Teddy Ted was spinning on there. And they had Zulu Nation radio on the same station, so sometimes Red Alert, Afrika Islam and Jazzy Jay. I would make these pause tapes and then go to school and front like I went to the battles with my big cousins and sell them for $5.
I was up that late because I found out about this station from the son of a Panamanian lady that used to babysit me when my mother was working nights. The Panamanian lady, who I love to this day, her son exposed me to graffiti. He would have this black book that he would draw the pieces he was going to spray-paint on subways. I would sit there and just be entertained, looking at a live-and-in-person movie. These were my first experiences witnessing hip-hop firsthand.
When they had the block parties in the neighborhood, that’s when I was able to really get to see the DJing and the dudes on the microphone. Everybody would be outside until shots blew on the block. But it never ended unless somebody got shot or police came.
My whole lyricism, my showmanship, I definitely attribute a lot of that to Grandmaster Caz, even though I love the whole Cold Crush. I emulated a lot just in terms of my charisma and wanting to be the leader of the crew. I loved the Sugarhill Gang, but when I found out later on that Caz wrote all of Big Bank Hank’s rhymes, that affected my appreciation.
There was also the component of my Jamaican upbringing. In Brooklyn there was this melting pot of every Caribbean community in existence. It wasn’t just about hip-hop. You had Haitians, Trinidadians, Guyanese, Jamaicans, Bajans, Panamanians. This was a significant influence on my showmanship, everything I was doing from the way I dressed to the energy that was in my shows, their flow patterns and the way they spit on dancehall records, the heavy bass line beats. I encompassed all of that into my imagination but in a hip-hop way.
I moved to Uniondale, Long Island, in 1983 when I was 12. We were all finding mischief way too soon according to our parents’ standards. They saw us going down these wrong paths. Coming from where we came from, you kind of looked at it like, “Damn, man. Long Island soft. I don’t want to go out there and be around all this grass and flower beds, around some white kids that don’t know hip-hop culture.” But that common denominator is what allowed the Leaders of the New School to connect. Because the hood was still in the suburbs.
We officially started the group around ’86, but I didn’t have the name Busta Rhymes yet. My name was Chill-O-Ski. The way we got with Chuck D and them was at a talent show that was happening in Hempstead. There were 20 to 30 groups in the lineup, and we waited all the way until the very end. Chuck D invited us out to Spectrum City Studios in Hempstead, along with some other groups.
There was a board that had all these different group names on it like Son of Bazerk, Funky Frank and the Street Force, Young Black Teenagers and Leaders of the New School. And we had to listen to them try to split our group up and put us in one that they felt we fit most with. We were like, “We didn’t come up here to be broken up.” And they respected that.
We told them that we wanted the name Leaders of the New School, and the white kid that actually ended up becoming a member of Young Black Teenagers, he wanted the same name. So we ended up having to do a battle. And they said y’all want the name that bad then y’all need to make a song called “____ the Old School.” We didn’t want to do that because we was never raised to disrespect anything before us. But it was really just a test to see how bad we wanted it. That “____ the Old School” will never surface online.
What was cool and interesting about that time was that being smart and being positive outweighed everything else. You didn’t have too many gangster rappers. There was a large Five-Percent Nation presence. It was Poor Righteous Teachers, it was Rakim, it was Lakim Shabazz, it was King Sun, it was Just-Ice. Zulu Nation was present. There were a lot of uplifting Black power movements that were happening. If you wasn’t smart, you were looked at as a real bozo.
We had Queen Latifah, MC Lyte, Salt-N-Pepa. We always had braggadocious [expletive]. We had “I’m Bad,” real machismo, and girls saying that they were sexy, but you wasn’t really hearing about how dudes were out here selling drugs, shooting. I’m not saying that any of that is wrong. Everything in hip-hop has its place. But I think too much of one thing in anything in life is not a good thing.
When Leaders of the New School was poppin’ and things started to get active for us, that created some internal conflict. The consumer started to gravitate towards who their favorite MC was in the group. In that transition, I was really on my grind crazy because I was the youngest in the group, but the first one to have a child.
As far as “Scenario,” I knew my life changed after that. Q-Tip was always like my big brother and one of my closest friends. It was quite obvious when that record came out I was set up to steal the show. When I came on the mic with my “dungeon dragon” [expletive], it was definitely a showstopping moment.
At that time, the grand finale dude was the one who ended the song. “Scenario,” I was last. “Flava in Ya Ear,” I was last. “A Buncha ____” on “Blue Funk,” Heavy D’s album, I was last. “Come on Down” on Big Daddy Kane’s “Prince of Darkness” album. When you stealing the show, you were last.
“Put Your Hands Where My Eyes Could See” was a turning point for my life, the first time people heard me spit on a song calmly. It’s safe to say it’s one of the greatest records ever made in the history of the culture. I ain’t saying that because it was me. I’m saying that because it’s the general consensus across the board to this day.
EASY AD
My location was around Vyse Avenue, 174th Street, 171st Street, 173rd Street, right over the bridge from the Bronx River. I started hearing music in the parks just before the summer of the blackout, 1977. It was more funky, it hadn’t crossed over to the hip-hop era.
DJ Hollywood is older, he was doing the club thing, Club 371. They were considered more like a disco type of DJs at that particular time. We didn’t wear the things that our predecessors wore. We wore sneakers, things that was very comfortable for us. We also had the atmosphere, the B-boy, breaking. In ’78, ’79, a lot of parties started happening, places started opening up to hip-hop. The Dixie Club on Freeman Street, Lovebug Starski started playing at the Burger King.
I started writing rhymes around ’77 when I was in the Hoe Avenue Boys & Girls Club. The Furious Three, the Furious Four, the Furious Five — they were really, really good on the mic. They were the MC group that pushed you to want to push yourself. Then it was the L Brothers with Master Rob and Kevie Kev. They were really out there too, playing the Dover and a lot of community centers.
The first group I was with was the AsSalaam Brothers. After we broke up, Donald D and myself went to try out for the Funk Machine. He made it, I didn’t. Then I joined the Cold Crush.
As hip-hop progressed and everybody got really good, we used to have meetings at the Police Athletic League with this guy named Blood. All the groups who were established at the time, it was Flash and the Furious Five, the Funky Four Plus One More, Cold Crush Brothers, AJ and Busy Bee. And the Mercedes Ladies was there as well. And we had meetings because we wanted to establish that if one group was playing in a particular borough, the other groups would play outside the five boroughs. That was something that no one talked about.
Flash, Disco Bee, they had a sound system. They used to record tapes. Then you had AJ and Busy Bee, they used to record. L Brothers had tapes. But their sound systems and their tapes were not crispy clear, because people used to stand in front of their system with a radio and record it. So one of my friends from fourth grade, his name is Elvis, he was actually the first tape master in the world of hip-hop as we know it. We let him plug directly into our system.
Once he plugged into our system, that was the end of that — Cold Crush tapes went triple platinum all over the world.
The tapes used to be distributed in this way: If you had a brother that was in the Army or Navy, in Japan or Germany, they used to mail the tape there. So our tapes got distribution all over the world. And they were clear as well, so it was like you were actually at the party.
Also back in the early days, there was this car service called OJ. You can rent an OJ for $40, put it on hold for an entire day. In the OJ they always had the hottest cassette tape. And so there was Cold Crush tapes in there.
One of our biggest tapes was when we battled the Fantastic Five for hip-hop supremacy in 1981 at Harlem World. That tape kind of changed the complexity of the culture , meaning that the rhyming style that was done by the other MCs, we changed that ’cause it was becoming kind of boring. So we brought a different kind of rhyme style to the table, along with the showmanship and stage performances.
When “Rapper’s Delight” came out, we were already past that style and that kind of flow. And they weren’t really part of the hip-hop community, so no one really took them seriously, the record wasn’t being celebrated. We actually did not wanna make records at all. We didn’t understand the value of them because we had something to us that was very valuable at that particular time — our stage show and our tapes.
Later on, Russell Simmons approached us when Run-DMC was just getting kind of hot. He said, “My brothers are getting bigheaded. I want them to battle y’all so y’all can show them exactly what it’s all about.” Later on we found out that he had gave them a cassette tape and told them that this is the group that you have to be better than. So they study our tapes and our style. So when you see Run-DMC, you see a part of us and our flow and our hard rhyming style.
In 1984 when “Sucker MCs” was the hottest record in the country, we had a show in Chicopee, Massachusetts, at a roller skating rink, Run-DMC and the Cold Crush Brothers. We did our show and we do what we do. We rocked it. But they were the hottest, they were the bigger ticket. But it was very humbling and honorable, they came into our dressing room and said, “Listen, we want to be like y’all. Y’all are the standard which we want to get to.”
LIL BABY
Jeezy and 50 Cent — I remember my older sister had both CDs. I was born in 1994. I’m young, but I was hanging outside, so I was hanging around older guys. I’d already seen how they was living, how they was moving. The older guys was glorifying them. As I’m listening and I’m learning, it kind of shaped my life to this day, honestly.
You wanted the tank top, you wanted the money, you wanted to have that street feeling, like wherever you go, you’re the man. That’s what I got from Jeezy and 50 Cent.
I remember being 10, 11, I used to go on YouTube at my grandma’s house all day. Sometimes they had the lyrics, sometimes they didn’t. The songs that didn’t, I’d write the lyrics down myself. I’d listen to the first bar, figure it out and write it down.
It was local Atlanta artists — these were teen club songs. There wasn’t young rappers all around the world like there is now. Skooly with the Rich Kidz, “hundred thousand dollars in a rubber band.” Different little crews — the MDC boys had a song called “Splash Gang”; Yung Booke, “Sack Right, We Straight” went crazy; Yung Woo, “She Everything I Need.” We had them little MP3 players that you clicked.
Boosie’s always been a favorite, too. More than anything, he was from across the tracks. We were from across the tracks. He had them real neighborhood stories.
Music’s always been my inspiration, getting in my vibe, get my head going. But I didn’t ever think it could do nothing for me. That’s why I never did it.
I got out of prison on July 1, 2016. I went to the studio that day, put the headphones on and tried something. But I didn’t really make nothing. I remember telling one of my friends, “I don’t feel it yet. I’m gonna wait until I run me a bankroll up, and then I’m gonna come back.”
From always reading the lyrics growing up, I knew you needed a verse and then a hook and another verse. I sat in the studio with Young Thug, Migos, Peewee Longway, KC Da Beatmonster. I had a couple little buddies with those little in-the-closet studios.
Most of it was from watching — I’m a visual learner. That’s why I never write nothing down. To this day, I’ve never really seen the writing process, where they’re really writing raps. The punch-in process is freestyling, but not really freestyling. One line at a time, sometimes two lines at a time, sometimes three.
That first time I posted a song on my page and it went viral, I kinda liked that feeling. I never released the song, because it wasn’t actually a whole song. Me and Marlo, “Set Up Shop,” was the first song I recorded that came out. The next full song I recorded was “Option.” People loved it, but it was kind of cheesy to me. When “My Dawg” came out, I was like, “This is the one.”
The first time I got booked was at Club Bankhead, $750. Then I booked myself on Mondays at Crucial, the littest in Atlanta. We’d come in 50 deep, buying bottles. It was a wave. They were booking me for less than it cost me to come in there. But it was just the fact that we were getting paid to come.
Then I was booked Thursday to Sunday, performing at little clubs, the chitlin circuit. Every weekend, I’ve got a concert. I’d go to these new places and the song would come on and they’d go word for word. That’s how I knew every song was a hit.
I got a song like, “This month I want seven/I’ve been going up/next month I want 10.” That was for a show, I was getting $7,000. That journey, it’s been there in my songs. I went from 7 to 10 to 50 to 60, then 150 then 200 then 250 then 400 then a million. And it ain’t going to stop until I stop.
I’m not saying it to brag, I was actually proud of it each time. Like $7,000 — I was astonished. “I get $7,000 to rap!?” I couldn’t have been more proud. You know what I had to do to make $7,000? And they’d give it to me to go in the club and have fun? Life is a dream, almost.
Gucci Mane has definitely been one of several mascots for Atlanta. He put it on his back. Me and Gucci met before I started rapping, from the streets. Thug’s like my brother, we grew up together, versus Gucci Mane, who was like an idol. Guwap was like unc.
Ralo was one who gave me a sense, too, that I could do it. Because I know he’s a street dude. Even though Young Thug was a street dude, he’s been a rapper the whole time, so I never looked at him like he was doing what I could. That was his God-given talent and gift.
I look at all the people, even to this day, that are still in the game after 20, 30 years. I take bits and pieces from everybody, but the people I study the most are people who lasted for a long time. Swizz Beatz is one of my close mentors. I enrolled in his business class at Harvard. And I also study the people who didn’t last, who went out quick. I try to see who all has been at my level and then lost it — how they lost it, what they did wrong. I study that.
I appreciate Drake more than words can explain. But when he first called me for a Drake feature, I didn’t understand music the way that I do now. I think that’s why I did so good. I wasn’t like, “Oh my God, it’s Drake.” I didn’t know the real worth of it. I didn’t know what he was about to do for me. But that’s how I was able to get on there and just be free. Now it’s even harder for me to do a Drake record, because I know what I’m up against.
I used to be on some, “I ain’t no rapper, I’m a street [expletive].” Now I’m not a rapper, I’m a businessman. Rapping is still a business. As good a rapper as I need to be, I need to be a better businessman.
Hip-hop has opened every door for me — the people I meet to the way I set a trust up for my kids, every single thing for me in my life. Getting my record clean, setting a foundation for my family, not having to look over my shoulder.
I was just in prison in 2016. Now it’s 2023 and I’m almost on the top of the world. I’m sitting in an office now and I’ve got 300 pieces of mail. I’ve been an adult and not gotten a single piece of mail. Nobody had my address, all the bills were in somebody else’s name. Now I’ve been gone a week, I come home and I’ve got 300 pieces of mail.
LIL BIBBY
DMX’s album when he had the fully red cover, with the blood everywhere — I had it on cassette. When I saw the picture, I got scared. I was a little kid. What’s the one where he was back and forth with different voices? “Damien!” I heard that and I said, “Is this the devil?”
To be honest with you, I used to be realistic with myself when I was young: “I already know I’m gonna die and go to jail, so who cares?” And then when I started doing music, it just worked really fast and it kind of changed all our lives.
We watched Chief Keef come up. I feel like the whole world watched Keef come up. We were all young, and it was crazy to see someone from our city become so big so quickly.
Once the music started picking up and people started paying attention, the spotlight was on Chicago. I feel like it made me take it seriously. It gave me some motivation — like, OK, maybe I don’t have to die, maybe I don’t have to go to jail.
Drake reached out — that happened super early. He reacted to “Kill ____” with Herb. I was probably only rapping for nine months, and then Drake started hitting me up and invited me to his show. I was a big Lil Wayne fan, Gucci Mane fan, a big Drake fan.
When you just doing you, you never really think about how big it is getting or who’s copying it. I’ll explain the Chicago drill sound that the U.K. and New York is doing: It’s this thing that we used to do in Chicago called footworking — the footworking beats was heavy percussion, like with the ticks.
This producer from Chicago named DJ L, he used to make every beat sound like a footwork beat. And I used to scream at him like, “Dude, I don’t wanna rap on all footworking beats! Can you make different beats?” And he just couldn’t. He was our in-house producer, so we just used to be stuck rapping on these footworking type of beats. And the whole world just started doing it. It’s a Chicago thing.
I never really think about it like that, but every now and then, I think, we just started this in the closet . Social media definitely helped the drill movement, but when I look back at it, the [expletive] we was doing was so crazy. We didn’t do a lot of thinking.
I think most Chicago artists didn’t reach their peak. Most of them passed away. It’s like crabs in the barrel. We Chicago people got trust issues — I always think somebody trying to get over on us. I don’t think we really understand the business that well. Then you feel vulnerable, like you don’t know enough. Atlanta or L.A. always have the older people that’s well seasoned on the business.
I always thought about the bigger picture, where I’m trying to go, you know what I’m saying? Since I started listening to Jay-Z, I was always like, what would Jay-Z do? That’s how I based my career.
NONAME
In terms of song structure, I was really inspired by Kanye West, Common, Lupe Fiasco and Mos Def — that type of rap where there can be messaging and maybe some political themes, but the song is pretty standard in terms of hooks and bridges. A lot of sung choruses, that kind of a thing. I tend to like writing hooks that are catchy. I really like catchy-sounding production with thoughtful lyricism. That’s what I tend to gravitate to.
I have this very vivid memory of my mom playing “Late Registration” in her Nissan Pathfinder when I was a kid, and just being in the back seat, listening.
And then when I wanted my songs to be a little more deconstructed, Jay Electronica and Earl Sweatshirt. “Eternal Sunshine (The Pledge),” that tape from Jay, I’ve never heard a rap album sound like that, or someone attempt to rap to a movie score. That was very eye-opening to me, in terms of what the genre could do. Same with MF Doom, “Madvillainy.” I had never heard anything like that. “Oh, rap could do this?”
At the time, I wasn’t really a hip-hop head. When I was a kid, I was probably listening to Michael Jackson and Avril Lavigne. I was listening to a lot of Bow Wow, actually. Like, a lot. Teenybopper hip-hop. “Doggy Bag,” 2001 — wow. He definitely had a moment. That was my childhood, as far as rap was concerned. It was not exciting.
A lot of the stuff that I was into was based on what I could listen to. My mom wasn’t really allowing me to listen to too much. She was like, “You can listen to this Michael Jackson and one Kanye album.” And whatever’s playing on the radio. It was that vibe. I would go to my friend’s house and they would be listening to Wayne mixtapes.
I’m just now starting to become a real music fan, where I can listen to a lot more genres and styles. Stylistically, in terms of pockets and playing around with language, my generation doesn’t really do that that much, just across the board. And that’s the type of hip-hop that I think I like the most. I’ve been going back to Slick Rick and Big Pun, Big L, stuff that’s either punchline driven or people are just hitting very crazy pockets. As far as new rappers, probably Boldy James, billy woods, Silkmoney. You know Babyface Ray? I liked his last tape.
I’m kind of late being a musician. I don’t know why I make the type of music that I make sometimes. Because it’s truly not really popular. I feel like everyone is trying to stay away from the type of stuff that I do because they want money. They want to sustain themselves. Not even trying to be self-deprecating, but I really don’t hear folks making kind of weird poetic [expletive] like this.
Although hip-hop wasn’t my entry point, being in organizing spaces — Black radical spaces where folks are thinking about leftist politics and ideologies — I was able to find rappers and hip-hop artists that actually do make that type of music. I guess it does lead back into hip-hop, which I didn’t realize. Aspects of it were in the Black radical tradition. I wish that aspect of it was a bit more to the mainstream, but it is what it is.
PAUL WALL
Seeing hip-hop on MTV or BET, that was a different type of hip-hop. It was all East Coast predominant. Even on the radio in Houston, I remember hearing West Coast music and wondering like, why? The East Coast, a lot of what they said, I didn’t know what they were talking about, ’cause, you know, the translation is a little bit different in the slang. We understood the West Coast a little bit more ’cause it was like a migration of people from the South that moved to the West Coast, and a lot of their music was funk- or blues-based, similar to how a lot of Southern music and hip-hop was blues-based.
But when we heard the Texas music, that’s when we heard people speaking our language to us. The Geto Boys and the Screwed Up Click, it was all kind of the same era for me. Rap-A-Lot was seen as the super mainstream, they represented us on a worldwide scale, where the Screwed Up Click was more of an underground thing. We took pride in both of them, but for different reasons.
I remember being like 15, this would’ve been ’97, riding in one of my friends’ car, going to school, him rifling through just different mixtapes and then putting a Screw tape on, that’s how we would listen to it.
A lot of that era was very territorial. The Screw tapes and Screwed Up Click was a Southside thing, but it was almost like blasphemy if you were on the Northside listening to the Screw tapes. I was an undercover Screw head, it only would be a few of us really listening to the Screw tapes like that. There was a few people that I went to school with that moved from the Southside to the Northside, so they would have the new Screw tapes, “Hey, this is what I got when I went to my grandma house this weekend.” If you had that Screw tape, you would be the man.
When I started working, I would be like stocking shelves, overnight type stuff, no customers in the store. So you turn on the “attention shopper” monitor, put a rubber band around it and have a radio playing a Screw tape all through the store.
Listening to Screw tapes, it’d be a particular artist freestyling that really clicked with you. I really liked Lil’ Keke, Fat Pat, Big Pokey. You’d be like, “Which is the one where Lil’ Keke is rapping on the MC Lyte beat? Let me find that one.”
They weren’t confined by the vocabulary you’re taught in the book. They created their own vocabulary. Keke specifically is a wordsmith who would just create his own words, his own slang. I mean, honestly, any slang that we know today that’s Houston-related or Texas-related, Keke’s the one who said it first about 95% of the time.
When it comes to Fat Pat, he had a swag to him with him being a big boy but also real player. A lot of the music he made was about girls liking him, so it was that whole player swag. That’s who you would idolize or look to be. Fat Pat’s the first person I ever heard talk about having diamonds in his teeth.
Big Pokey was laid back, he had a softer tone to his voice, but it also was like very deep and aggressive at the same time. So him being nicknamed the hardest pit in the litter, it really fit him because it was almost like a growl of a dog when you heard him rap.
My favorite Screw tapes, there’s a few of them. “Leanin’ on a Switch” is probably my favorite one. “Who’s Next Wit Plex” is another. Still to this day, when I’m riding around, I’ll put ’em on.
When the Swishahouse came about and started to be a Northside thing, then it was like, oh we can do it too. Of the Swishahouse tapes, a lot of my favorites are the Slim Thug freestyles. “Northside 9,” “Northside 10,” where I remember Slim Thug and J-Dawg just going off. Also in the Swishahouse, they would do this thing where it would be four or five people and they would say one or two lines and then it’d go to the next person, like a pass the mic kind of thing, but you wouldn’t spit a whole verse. Unfortunately, I never got to be a part of that. But those are some of the most iconic Swishahouse freestyles.
I made regular-speed music and it being slowed down was something you would dream of — making a song and it got to be so popular or big that a DJ, whether it be DJ Screw, Michael Watts, DJ Bone, any of these other DJs would slow it down and you’d hear it on a mixtape.
Michael Watts opening the door, allowing me to rap with the Swishahouse, was something where I was able to showcase my talent in a different way. I did two freestyles for Watts, and one of the ones we did was a intro for his radio show. And I remember hearing that on the radio like, man, we on the radio with a freestyle! Like, that’s crazy. So many people are trying to make it that traditional path that you gonna be waiting forever. But if you go one of these other ways and do something different, then you’ll be first in line.
RZA
Summer of 1976: A young kid who had just come back from North Carolina into the streets of Staten Island. There was a block party being thrown by a local DJ, I think DJ Quincy. The DJ had jacked power from the street lamps, plugged up his system and was playing music. And even though I was a kid that shouldn’t have been there — it was past bedtime — I was there. The music, the turntablism of him spinning the record back and forth, the guy on the mic reciting lyrics, DJ Punch. Immediately, I fell in love. I had to be 7 years old.
I remember the lyric the guy said: “Dip, dip, dive/so socialized/you clean out your ears and you open your eyes.” When you just look at those words right there, it really makes a lot of sense.
It was a life-changing year for me. I stayed in New York that summer, and then we went back down South. I had to come back to New York in 1977 and was stuck here ever since.
My cousin, the GZA, who lived on Staten Island at that time, had cousins in Queens and in the Bronx. Soundview Projects in the Bronx was one of the founding projects of hip-hop. Being a few years older than me, GZA would take me up to the Bronx and that’s where I would hear MCs. We could say our style is traced back to the Bronx because it was Soundview Projects that really put the most inspiration on us. And of course, Jamaica, Queens.
At 11, you was almost an adult, especially in poverty situations. I’m talking about going from Park Hill, Staten Island, to the Wilson stop in Bushwick on the L train, and I did that every morning. That was just New York life.
GZA was already an MC. I would just recite whatever he said, copy it. At the age of 9, I wrote my own first lyric. I would sit in school and just write lyrics all day. That was the kind of brain I had.
Before the Sugarhill Gang had a record on the radio, all we had was tapes. Cold Crush versus the Fantastic Freaks, Cold Crush versus the Force MCs, Busy Bee versus Kool Moe Dee. Those tapes, those Harlem World tapes, those uptown Bronx tapes circulating through the neighborhoods, those were our teachers.
But when I heard them on the radio, I was convinced that one day my voice was going to be on the radio. Me, O.D.B. and the GZA, we just pursued it. We would travel throughout New York, any opportunity that we could to show that we had talent.
We had bad contracts. The first contract, I’m glad I didn’t sign it. GZA and Ol’ Dirty signed it — we was probably 15, 16 years old, and it didn’t work. My first contract of course was with Tommy Boy at 19 years old, and that didn’t work either. I felt abandoned by the label. I felt that the best way to do it was to do it ourselves.
I formed my own company first, Wu-Tang Productions, and started selling records out of the trunk. Then when Loud got wind of us and offered us a deal, I went, “Nah. I can’t tie every member of this crew down to one location. This crew is big and we have to spread our wings. We have to take our talent and spread it through the industry.” I felt it was going to be impossible for all this energy to come out of one faucet. “Nah, I need more spigots.”
I thought that hip-hop was losing its roots.
And I knew that me, the GZA, Ol’ Dirty, Method Man, Ghost, we were purists. My plan was to infiltrate the industry. The purity of the culture was taking a left turn already in the ’90s, and I felt that we should enter the arena but spread it out like 36 chambers. We want our chambers to be everywhere.
You think about before us in the ’60s and ’70s, you got Elijah Muhammad making different temples around the country. Or Marcus Garvey giving us the idea that we as Black men and women have to stand up and be noble and plant our flags, calculate our lives. Those things were in the back of my head as an entrepreneur and as an artist.
Prior to us entering the industry, we always felt that Eric B. & Rakim, KRS-One, Run-DMC, Big Daddy Kane, LL Cool J — there was a moment in hip-hop, between like 1985 and 1988, that was just powerful, influential and pure still. And then ’89, ’90, ’91, it started getting diluted.
So then when we came in, we felt we was bringing it back pure, and our contemporaries, as well: Biggie Smalls, Nas, Mobb Deep, Busta Rhymes, Outkast. Our early shows, it was Outkast and Wu-Tang, popping up in Chicago. Ice Cube was probably the headliner, and we were the opening act. And a few of the underground peers who didn’t fully hit the chart surface: Brand Nubian, of course, De La Soul, Duck Down.
Hip-hop is a sport. Now Wu-Tang, of course, being nine MCs and egotistic, even though those were our peers, we felt we were the best. We felt nobody could beat Wu-Tang. That’s the Wu-Tang spirit.
When we hit No. 1 on the charts in the summer of ’97, beating the country artists and rock artists, it was like, “Wow, we did it.” And the cool thing about it was like it was without being pop. It wasn’t like we had a Top 40 record. It was just the culture itself, the path we walked.
TRINA
My beginning is watching Queen Latifah, MC Lyte, Salt-N-Pepa. I just loved them. They were different because they were from up north and wore the baggy clothes. They were just girls and they was so fire. I saw them on TV and I was obsessed.
I remember begging my mom to take me to Salt-N-Pepa’s concert in Miami. I had to be 14, 15. I had my asymmetrical haircut, my little colorful jacket on and my long onesie thing. I was dressed just like them. I thought I was one of the girls.
In concert, it was really overwhelming because they were really, really good. They were dancing and singing and rapping and performing and the DJ, Spinderella, was there. I thought, wow, this is just amazing. And it’s just all girls.
I first did the record with Trick Daddy as a favor. I didn’t know it was going to be a song. I just thought it was an intro of me talking slick to him, going back and forth, arguing with friends. But when I got there, and he played it, I was like, “What do I say to this?” I was so nervous.
But I had my friends with me and they’re real feisty. They was just like, boosting me up: “Oh, no, we got to get him out of here. We got this.” We was all in the booth and they was like, “You gotta kill him on the track. You gotta go nastier.” I was writing stuff down, scratching it off, balling the paper up. And they were like, “No, nastier. We gotta go harder.”
We called Trick, and when he came back and heard the song, he went nuts. He called the owner of the label, and I knew him from growing up. He was like, “That’s Trina who?” Trick was like, “Trina — the only Trina.” “No, it’s not.” “Yes, it is!” And when he came to the studio, he was like, “Oh, no, we signing you to a record deal.” I just left and they were stalking me for weeks and weeks.
They came to my mom’s house looking for me. I’m not interested. I’m going to be a Realtor. I just got my license. There’s no way. I went to Trick’s birthday party, and they tricked me. He wanted to perform the song and I was too shy. I got on the stage and when the song came on, I didn’t say nothing. My eyes was closed. I didn’t say not one word, but every girl in the whole entire club said the song.
The next week, he had a birthday party in Tallahassee. I came out and killed it. I was scared, but I was ready to perform after that.
Once I did the “Nann” record, immediately, I got signed to Atlantic Records. Boom, right after that, I got called to do a Ludacris record, the remix to “What’s Your Fantasy?” So now it’s these two records blowing up at the same time.
I was in the studio a lot with Trick. We had Money Mark and C.O., Tre+6, Duece Poppi. There was Plies and there was Rick Ross. I kind of followed Ross. I would not turn in no records if he didn’t approve. That gave me security of how to put the records together.
Later on, I was battling with the label about certain records that I wanted to do, because I had grown from the records like “Nann,” and they wanted those particular records. I wanted to do these records talking about how I really felt. They felt like that stuff’s soft and your fans are not soft. I had to stand firm in the paint, do what I felt and make them believe that I can make music that I believed in.
“Nann” was fun. That was dope. That was Trick’s idea. I came in, I did my thing. But now here is Trina, and Trina is a woman and she is not 19 anymore. She’s growing, and she’s been through all different kinds of things. And it worked.
Here we are 23 years later. There’s so many girls, you can’t even keep count now. What I love about that, is there was a time there was no girls. It was just four or five of us. Now there’s so much more versatility — there’s the City Girls, there’s Flo Milli, Lady London, KaMillion, Coi Leray, GloRilla, Doechii. It just feels like Ladies Night right now.
VANILLA ICE
I’m the first global hip-hop artist in the world. I don’t care who you put before me or after me, I’m the first. I put rap music in front of people’s ears who never considered or even heard of it. I hit Saudi Arabia, bro. I’ve played Iran. I’ve played in front of the Taliban and Hezbollah, and they’d sing “Ice Ice Baby.” They don’t hold the American thing against you. They look at you like, “This is Vanilla Ice.” And they treat you like royalty.
You have to understand that I grew up with poetry. When I was in the seventh grade trying to get the chicks, instead of writing love notes to these little girls, I was writing love poems. And it worked really well. I had no idea that that poetry was going to lead to my career. But the passion never left. It just kept escalating.
My mom was really good at it, too. She had these one-liners. I’m a big one-liner guy: “Drop that zero, get with the hero.” “If there’s a problem, yo, I’ll solve it.” I could run for president, bro. “Let’s make America the ’90s again.”
I got involved in “Beat Street” and “Electric Boogaloo,” the “Breakin’” movies. I was a breakdancer. I would make 40 bucks a day at the mall, spinning on my head with some cardboard and a giant jambox. Chase the girls around, eat some pizza, have some change left over.
I went to high school in Dallas, and I would spend all my summers in Miami. The whole Miami booty shake thing that everybody remembers from the late ’80s really didn’t exist yet. There was no models, Kardashians, Versaces, not even 2 Live Crew. Nobody here in Miami influenced me whatsoever.
Hip-hop was way bigger in Dallas than it was Miami in the ’80s. I thought all white people were listening to the same music across the country, and nobody was. I was the only one. I had an older brother — he was listening to Aerosmith, Foghat, Mötley Crüe. I hated that. It didn’t make me want to breakdance. Rap just fit me better than O.J.’s glove. It really did. Scott La Rock, KRS-One, Mantronix.
I grew up with D.O.C. — Fila Fresh Crew was his first rap act that nobody even knows about, and that was in Dallas. He had a big hit back in the day, “Whirlwind Pyramid.” Everybody knows he wrote all the lyrics for everybody on “The Chronic.” KNON Radio, a pirate station, that was big. Dr. Rock, Big Al. Just straight from their attic. It was so freakin’ hip-hop and so culturized.
We had a place called City Lights, where I went with my brother’s fake ID. I entered into the talent contest because I’m a battle rapper, I freestyle. I feel like I’m the best. I don’t give a damn who you are — Eminem, Ice Cube, Ice-T.
We would also go to a place called Handy Dan’s, in the back of a hardware store where we would have keg parties. You could park behind it and the cops couldn’t find you. We would have these rap battles against other schools. I had to show up and blow up, you know?
Back then we didn’t have any kind of FruityLoops or Pro Tools or computers at all. There wasn’t even a smartphone. It cost money to go into a studio. I have a lot of self-discipline, and a lot of competitive drive from motocross, because I’ve been racing since I was 8. I went out and made my money on the motocross track, 1,500 bucks a week. I found a guy in Houston who made ecstasy pills for $2 apiece in his bathtub, which was legal back then, by the way, and I sold them for 20 bucks. Instead of blowing it on my car, now I’m blowing it on the studio, hoping this works out.
I blew it up, man. I went on the Stop the Violence tour with Ice-T, Stetsasonic, EPMD, Sir Mix-a-Lot. They were rap gods at the time. I was the opening act for the opening act for the opening act for the opening act for the opener. I was there so frickin’ early, the other acts were still in their hotel.
I had a 10-minute set, me and my breakdancing crew. I had a few songs — “Ice Ice Baby,” “Play That Funky Music,” a song that was never released called “My Car Goes Boom.” I never got so much love in my whole life. I guess word gets out that there’s this white kid that’s just crushin’ it out there, so people start coming earlier to the shows. It got so much attention it went to the headliner act, Ice-T. I saw him sitting there on a road case watching me. He was the first one to tell the other acts, “You’ve got to come see this white boy. He’s dancing his ass off.” And the next night there was Chuck D sitting on the road case with Ice-T.
Chuck D actually discovered me. My first record deal had come from Ichiban Records out of Atlanta. I was on there with Curtis Mayfield. The album was called “Hooked,” which is the same songs as “To the Extreme,” just remixed. Then Chuck D called Def Jam. We had it all lined up. I was on my way to New York, ready to sign, all dreams about to come true. And I get a phone call from my manager, and he says, “Don’t sign with Def Jam.”
He came in and he explained to me this guy named Charles Koppelman from EMI Records wants to meet me. It’s the craziest thing that could happen to any musician. I did “Ice Ice Baby” and then three years go by with the blink of an eye. It took on a life of its own.
You can’t pick your audience; they pick you, bro. And I got picked. Whether you like it or you hate it, you’re not going to stop it. They used me as a product on the shelf. All kinds of funny, laughable things like “In Living Color,” “Saturday Night Live,” “Arsenio Hall Show.” It was just a big wave of entertainment. And if you didn’t recognize it or use it, then your ratings were low. Vanilla Ice was the ratings, and that was it. The most controversial artist on the planet.
The adversity that I’ve had to face is probably more than any rapper in the history of the world. I’ve always been offended by anybody calling me a “white rapper.” You’re racist if you say that. Music shouldn’t have a color. Do you call Jimi Hendrix the Black rocker? My song was No. 1 before anybody knew what color I was. I was influenced by hip-hop. You can’t name any genre or any kind of person or ethnic background that is not influenced by it.
Don’t forget, a lot of these big rappers today were influenced by Vanilla Ice, OK? Nipsey Hussle admits it. You’ve got Kobe Bryant out there winning a talent contest when he was in high school dancing to “Ice Ice Baby,” doing the exact dance moves I did. The influence and the impact is undeniable. It’s possibly the biggest impact to ever hit music in music’s history next to Elvis or the Beatles.
VIOLENT J
In the seventh grade, I met John Utsler, Shaggy’s older brother, and an original member of I.C.P. He showed me “Roxanne, Roxanne,” and all the battling they were doing. He put me up on Eazy-E. How was a seventh grader copping these vinyl records and where was he finding them at? There was no internet. It’s almost supernatural. Maybe he was listening to the Wizard on WJLB at night or something.
We would watch “Yo! MTV Raps” when it only came on for an hour. And we would also watch Channel 62, which is a local channel, and they had a show called “The New Dance Show” and they would spin local rappers’ videos. Really cheap-made local rapper videos, but they were our heroes: Awesome Dré, A.W.O.L., Detroit’s Most Wanted, Smiley, Prince Vince and the Hip Hop Force, Merciless Ameer, Kaos & Mystro, DJ Duncan Hines.
Awesome Dré’s “You Can’t Hold Me Back” album and “Straight Outta Compton,” they just lived in our CD player. It took our love of pro wrestling away, which had been our goal. But we couldn’t deny it no more, man. We wanted to do hip-hop. As far as flow, my three main guys were Ice Cube, Awesome Dré and Esham. Now Eazy-E, I love Eazy-E’s voice, but Ice Cube on “Dope Man” is just a beast. He’s coming from the gut so hard.
Because people have called us horrorcore artists, I wanted to know about horror in hip-hop. My own personal investigation leads me to Houston, Texas, Prince Johnny C. That first Geto Boys record was all normal except for this one song called “Assassins”: “My father was a priest, cold blooded he’s dead/Hypocrite, I caught him basin’, so I shot him in the head/Poured on the holy water, ‘Bless the dead’ is what I said/Then heard the demon screaming as his body bled.” Nobody was talking like that. What I do and what Esham did comes from Prince Johnny C’s original idea.
I used to have cassette cases full of tapes of local rappers. If I’d seen anything that was actually pressed up, I had to have it. So I walk into a store and there’s this guy Esham and he’s got an album out and two EPs. He’s rapping about the scariest [expletive] I’ve ever heard. He’s rapping about the devil, 666, crucifix. It was insane. And he sounds like the devil, his voice.He became our biggest influence. The sky would turn red when we’d play his CDs.
We looked at Detroit, we saw Kid Rock riding in a tractor in his video. He had Too Short producing tracks on there. He was touring with Ice Cube. He was rapping about being from 32 Mile Road, which is way the [expletive] out. It was unique, it was different. We’re like, wow, this kid’s way out, redneck-style, and he’s rapping. And then we’re looking at Esham coming out onstage in a coffin, rapping about the devil.
So we were like, this is what Detroit does — theatrics. Plus we’re huge wrestling fans. We put face paint on after our first EP. The way Kiss does it in rock, in rap who’s doing that, you know? It felt natural. It wasn’t awkward. And we’ve been doing it ever since.
Right from the rip, we did everything ourselves. We pressed our CDs up, we advertised ourselves. And we hired Esham and Kid Rock, the two biggest rappers in Detroit, to be on our first CD. We had Michigan on lock. And Toledo and parts of Ohio. I’m talking 3,000 people at a show. We couldn’t do [expletive] in Pittsburgh if we went there, though.
I remember in ’95, Onyx and Das EFX were going on tour. We got on that tour somehow. We got booed off every night, sometimes violently. It was probably 400 people at every show that we went to. We got to Michigan, 2,200 people packed, sold out. Onyx came to us and was like … We went out last. It was three shows we did like that — Detroit, Flint and Toledo.
That was our first tour.
After ’95 we toured nonstop, but our experiences with touring with other rap groups are very minimal. For multiple reasons, but the Faygo is a main one. If they have their equipment up there, it’s gonna be all wet. Like, we’ve played with Snoop Dogg, but he’s had to go on first, which sucked, because people leave. But he ain’t gonna go on after we destroyed the stage with the Faygo.
In ’94, we got asked to be part of this big rap show in Toledo. It was Outkast, Coolio, a bunch more. We were so honored to be on a lineup like that. So we do the show and afterward the Outkast guys surround us and they’re like, you got your [expletive] soda all over our [expletive]. So we had to pay ’em money for cleaning and everything. People were mad at us and we weren’t trying to get nobody mad at us. We just wanted to do our thing.
You know, there’s a lot of reasons why we’re in this place we’re in. It’s a benefit because the Juggalos are the [expletive] and very supportive. But people look at Juggalos like they’re not people. They say, the only ones that like your [expletive] are the Juggalos. What are Juggalos? They’re people!
I would love the opportunity to get out on one of these hip-hop tours and perform for an audience that ain’t ours so people might say, man, they’re actually pretty good. One time we offered Ice Cube $100,000 to spit a verse and he passed, and then years later he did it for free, out of respect. Ain’t that crazy?
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rap music; Hip hop culture

Location: New York; United States--US

People: LL Cool J (James Todd Smith); Blow, Kurtis; Chuck D

Company / organization: Name: Geto Boys; NAICS: 711130

Identifier / keyword: Ti (1980 ); Cardi B (1992 ); Dj Hollywood (1954 ); Rap And Hip Hop; West, Kanye; Soundcloud; Two Thousands (Decade); Bronx (Nyc); Archives And Records; Southern States (Us); Houston (Tex); Last Poets; Audio Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Arts; Entertainment; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Race And Ethnicity; Culture (Arts); Innovation; Three 6 Mafia; Drake (Rapper); Rza; Joe (Singer); Wallace, Christopher G; Mcdaniels, Darryl (Dmc); Disc Jockeys; Outkast; Music; Caramanica, Jon; Advertising And Marketing; Los Angeles (Calif); Missy Elliott (1971 ); Shakur, Tupac; Jay Z; Nineteen Hundred Nineties; Black People; Ll Cool J; Atlanta (Ga); Pop And Rock Music; Beastie Boys (Music Group); Virginia; 2 Live Crew; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Rhode Island; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Dr Dre (1965 ); Bars And Nightclubs; Run Dmc; Noise; Social Conditions And Trends

Title: 50 Rappers, 50 Stories

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-05T15:24:44Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846387440

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/50-rappers-stories/docview/2846387440/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ripples From a Strike Touch Fashion's World: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ripples-strike-touch-fashions-world/docview/2842321397/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The actors' strike could have far-reaching implications for how we watch and consume fashion.
At first it seemed impossible to imagine: No more red carpets! No more photos of movie stars and names to watch in fabulous gowns blanketing the internet. Could "Oppenheimer" and "Barbie" be the last gasp of that marketing Valhalla of fashion and film that was the modern premiere -- at least for the foreseeable future?
At least, that is, until the SAG-AFTRA actor's strike, announced July 14, is resolved. For the moment, actors, from the unknown to the most celebrated, are banned by their union from engaging in any promotional activities. That means big openings. That means magazine covers touting new movies. That means film festivals with all their associated dressing and posing opportunities. That means social media pics of them getting dressed for premieres.
And what that means for fashion, an industry that has become increasingly intertwined with the denizens of Lalaland in a mutually beneficial ecosystem of influence and outfits -- and as important, what it means for the public's understanding of fashion, much of which is received through the lens of celebrity -- is potentially enormous.
Actors sign contracts that can be worth millions, negotiated by agents and managers, to be brand ambassadors, appearing in some combination of advertisements, front rows, store openings and red carpets, dressed by stylists, generating coverage, desire and, most of all, publicity for everyone involved.
Their work may form their substance, but fashion is the grease that sends them viral (and that has bolstered their bank accounts at a time when the economics of movies are shifting -- part of the reason for the strike). Timothée Chalamet on the red carpet in Venice in a crimson Haider Ackermann halter top and Florence Pugh in a sheer pink Valentino "revenge dress" are images that put those actors and those brands at the center of social media for days.
Alison Bringé, the chief marketing officer at Launchmetrics, a data analytics and software company, wrote in an email that Margot Robbie's appearance in Schiaparelli at the film's Los Angeles premiere "generated over $ 2.1 million in media impact value in just 24 hours, which is more than half of what Schiaparelli's fall 2023 show amassed overall."
With all of that grinding to a halt, along with studio productions themselves, what happens? And who are most at risk? Actors and studios are not the only ones with a stake in this game.
At the moment, agents and talent seem to be holding their breath and swiveling their heads to see what everyone else is doing. The brands themselves are staying mum. Louis Vuitton, whose ambassadors include Jennifer Connelly, Michelle Williams and Ana de Armas, declined to comment. Versace, which works with Anne Hathaway, ditto. Prada, ditto. Gucci, ditto. Dior did not respond to requests for comment.
In theory, all fashion promotional work (as opposed to movie promotional work) can continue. Commercial appearances are not prohibited, according to the strike guidelines. And there are myriad such opportunities that have nothing to do with premieres. Recently Wimbledon turned into a catwalk of sorts for celebrities including Emma Corrin and Brad Pitt.
Much has been made of the fact that the first big red carpet victim will be the Venice Film Festival, scheduled for Aug. 30 to Sept. 9, and the de facto start of awards season, with all the fashion fanfare that implies.
This year the films rumored to be showing star Zendaya, a Louis Vuitton ambassador (Luca Guadagnino's "Challengers"); Jessica Chastain, who works with Gucci (Michael Franco's "Memory"); Emma Stone, also a Louis Vuitton ambassador (Yorgos Lanthimos's "Poor Things"); and Penélope Cruz, who works with Chanel (Michael Mann's "Ferrari"). All of them will most likely be absent.
Yet, as it happens, early September is also New York Fashion Week, and the start of the whole fashion season. That's four weeks of potential for appearances and events.
Even more pointedly, brands themselves have increasingly tiptoed into the content arena, making short films, especially during the pandemic. What sorts of non-studio videos could they cook up? Entirely independent films are allowed under strike guidelines. YSL even has its own film production division. The studios would look selfless -- supporting talent -- and the talent would look, well, good. When given lemons. ...
Indeed, the strike may make brand relationships even more important, both as a source of income and as a creative outlet. "The first writers strike, our teams were busier than ever, because a lot of the actors had to do more promotional appearances to subsidize for any slowing in their main vocation," said Brooke Wall, the founder of the Wall Group, a talent agency for stylists that is part of the Endeavor group.
That's one way of looking at it. The issue is thornier, however, because of the morality and optics involved. Even if SAG-AFTRA members are allowed by the rules to continue their outside work, will it not seem gauche to do so? Given the glitz and champagne associated with fashion, it could seem a bit like partying while Rome burns.
Fran Drescher, the SAG-AFTRA president and face of the strike, received vociferous blowback when she attended the Dolce & Gabbana Alta Moda couture extravaganza/junket in Puglia, Italy, just before the strike was announced, even though a spokeswoman for the union told The Hollywood Reporter that it knew about the trip, and it was fine. Add in the fact that it is often the most boldface names in the industry who have snagged the biggest outside contracts -- exactly that layer of Hollywood that does not necessarily need work during a stoppage -- and the situation gets even more complicated.
On the other hand, there is a whole substratum of talent who are not at the negotiating table and yet are seriously affected by the red carpet suspension: the stylists and hair and makeup artists who help create the image-making magic, and whose salaries are generally paid for by the studios, not the talent.
"There is no work!" said Kate Young, a stylist whose work focuses on Hollywood.
The end of movie promotion is a "massive issue," according to the stylist Karla Welch, who said she had had four premiere tours cut short or canceled already. "Basically any stylist who works with celebs just saw all their jobs go away," she said. "The only thing celebs' people can do are fashion jobs, and that's the few people who have celebs with brand deals."
This may be partly why there has been little noise thus far about suspending brand appearances. There is a trickle-down effect at work that is not insignificant when it comes to people's livelihoods. Still, Ms. Wall said, "this is a whole new world, so we shall see."
Indeed, there is a scenario in which the suspension of the red carpet has the unintended but far-reaching consequence of decoupling fashion and Hollywood, or at least significantly changing the balance of power. It could prove to brands that they need celluloid celebrities less than they may think, ushering in a new era of ambassadors focused on the rest of the world and talent that has nothing to do with back lots or Oscar statuettes. Really, it has already begun.
Two names: BTS and Beyoncé.
Photograph Top, Timothée Chalamet in a Haider Ackermann halter top on the red carpet in Venice last year. Above, an actors' strike, led by the union's president, Fran Drescher, center, has suspended promotional fashion activities related to films. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VIANNEY LE CAER/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; MARK ABRAMSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Motion pictures; Strikes; Actors; Celebrities; Employment; Social networks; Fashion

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Employment Social networks

People: Drescher, Fran

Company / organization: Name: SAG-AFTRA; NAICS: 813930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/20/style/actors-strike-red-carpet-fashion.html

Title: Ripples From a Strike Touch Fashion's World:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 27, 2023

column: Unbuttoned

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842321397

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ripples-strike-touch-fashions-world/docview/2842321397/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pink Is Everywhere. Can It Please Go Away?: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pink-is-everywhere-can-please-go-away/docview/2842321372/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hey Barbie, there is a fine line between reclaiming a color and ruining it.
I admit it: If I never have to see another piece of "Barbie" pink merch; if I never receive another email touting how to "Barbie-fy" my wardrobe, or celebrating the Zara x Barbie collection and the Balmain x Barbie collection and "Pink Eyewear Must-haves" from Privé Revaux, or calling out a "pink mania alert"; if I never again type "Barbie" into the Google search bar only to be faced by pink fireworks and a pink results page -- I will be happy.
I know this may not be a popular opinion. But after a full year of buildup (it was in June 2022 that those pictures of Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling in their neon rollerblading outfits were released), after 100 official brand partnerships in what Variety called the "pink publicity machine" and after the climax of the opening weekend, in which "Barbie" took in more money than any film by a female director ever (get ready for a spate of stories about the power of the "pink purse") and viewers flooded theaters in their own Barbie pink, I am choking on pink. Drenched in pink.
Ready to take Pepto-Bismol for all the pink, except -- it's pink too.
I understand why Issa Rae -- President Barbie herself! -- on the promotional tour before the actor's strike, announced that she was planning to "burn" all her pink. And I can't help but wonder whether, once the excitement over the movie dissipates, we will see the Barbie pink period as a sort of mass fashion hallucination. If whether, in the pell-mell rush to embrace the color -- to reclaim it as a triumph of ironic feminism -- the Barbie hype has sowed the seeds of pink's destruction.
It was not always thus. In the beginning, the return of Barbie pink was exciting, in a high-camp, postmodern, conceptual kind of way; a way that reframed a relationship to pink that had been poisoned by the marketing of gender stereotype back in the 1970s.
There is a reason the cover of David Batchelor's 2000 book "Chromophobia," which posits that historically the color has been seen as feminine and anti-intellectual, is Barbie pink.
"Pink is the most controversial color in fashion history," said Valerie Steele, the director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology and author of "Pink: the History of a Punk, Pretty, Powerful Color." "It has so many contradictory meanings. It has fully entered our bloodstream like a virus, and now different variants keep emerging."
"Barbie" seemed to herald the third leg of historical troika. First came millennial pink, that comforting dusty rose pink that reflected a generational and dual gender nostalgia for the swaddling innocence of childhood. Then the bright pink of the pussy hat pink, a rebellious, in-your-face-pink of feminine protest. And now, Barbie pink, the most artificial, commercialized, almost tacky, unmistakable pink of all -- number 219 on the Pantone color chart.
It is a pink that Leatrice Eiseman, the executive director of the Pantone Color Institute, said, "is considered a 'hot pink,' a close descendant of the 'mother color' red, taking on some of the dynamism, energy and theatrical aspect of red, but tempered somewhat so that it is not quite as aggressive." Also, she said, it is a pink that is "impossible to ignore."
In celebrating it as it celebrates the multilayered reality of women, the film imbues it with new meaning: from girl power at its most clichéd and cheesy to girl power at its most complex. Even those of us who never really embraced the color, wardrobe-wise, could appreciate the irony and applaud it.
Except that meaning has been drowned in the flurry of marketing that has ensued. It's starting to feel like pinxploitation. When even politicians see pink as a strategic tool, be it Gretchen Whitmer and her Governor Barbie or Kyrsten Sinema and her Twitter (she posted twin photos of herself in hot pink and glasses, to demonstrate her "Barbenheimer" appeal), a detox may be in order. There are other colors in the film, after all: butter yellow, baby blue, all that neon, burgundy. Neither the movie nor the women it celebrates should be reduced to a single shade.
I know I am not the only one who thinks so. In July, at the couture shows in Paris, during a preview with Pierpaolo Piccioli of Valentino, who did as much as anyone to popularize very, very bright pink thanks to his fall 2022 show, which featured a collection done almost exclusively in "Pink PP" and which became a popular red carpet trend with celebrities like Anne Hathaway and Zendaya, I asked him if he was riding the Barbie wave and including more pink in his collection.
He made a bit of a face and shook his head. He had made a custom look for Margot Robbie's press tour (a polka-dot halter mini) because he thought it was fun, but aside from that, he said, he "preferred to stay away." Going pinkalicious once was a statement, but twice was ... well, a box.
Likewise, at Schiaparelli, a house so synonymous with shocking pink that a 2022 exhibition at the Musée des Arts Décoratifs was called "Shocking!," the color Daniel Roseberry, its current designer, chose to focus on in his couture show was Yves Klein blue.
And in the latest issue of Australian Vogue, with Ms. Robbie on the cover, the actress is pictured not in the plethora of pink that she modeled in the June issue of American Vogue, but in goth-y pleated red Balenciaga, transparent plastic Rabanne and, most of all, black: black Gucci, black Louis Vuitton and black Chanel.
Even she, it seems, is pinked out.
Photograph Clockwise from top: Valentino's fall 2022 show in Paris; items from Zara's Barbie collection; and Margot Robbie, left, with Alexandra Shipp and friends in "Barbie." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ZARA; WARNER BROS.) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Color; Motion pictures

People: Robbie, Margot

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/24/style/all-pinked-out.html

Title: Pink Is Everywhere. Can It Please Go Away?:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 27, 2023

column: Unbuttoned

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2842321372

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pink-is-everywhere-can-please-go-away/docview/2842321372/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-0 7-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Summer Outings On Long Island: [Style Desk]

Author: Katie Van Syckle

Publication info: Katie Van Syckle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-outings-on-long-island/docview/2840700192/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On Saturday night in the Hamptons, Goop and Gucci held an intimate dinner, while the museum hosted a gala.
"Careful!" Gwyneth Paltrow called to her daughter, Apple Martin, who was walking in black Gucci heels down a stone path on the family's property in Amagansett, N.Y.
It was a muggy, overcast Saturday night, and nearby, the actress Blythe Danner, Ms. Paltrow's mother, mingled as guests arrived for the tented, 46-person dinner near the trampoline and treehouse in the manicured yard.
The stylist Rachel Zoe said she was just focused on being on time as she was getting ready: "Gwyneth is very punctual, and if she is like, sitting at 7, it is 7, maybe even 6:59."
The dinner was hosted by Ms. Paltrow and her stylist, Elizabeth Saltzman, and the occasion was the release of a new Goop serum and a Gucci summer collection. Attendees included Jimmy Fallon, Jodie Comer, Cleo Wade, Jerry and Jessica Seinfeld, and Dr. Julius Few, a plastic surgeon who worked on the new product.
"We invited everyone ourselves," Ms. Saltzman said. "This is off of my phone, texting, genuine relationships."
The chef Mattia Agazzi from the Michelin-starred Gucci Osteria da Massimo Bottura in Beverly Hills, Calif., prepared a dinner of artichoke salad, risotto and baked cod. As they left, attendees could select produce from Amber Waves Farm, located nearby, and take assorted produce including zucchini, tomatoes and beets to go.
What were you thinking about when you got dressed tonight?
What is a serum?
Down Montauk Highway in Water Mill, N.Y., valet workers were jumping in and out of cars, as more than 460 people gathered at the Parrish Art Museum to celebrate the institution's 125th anniversary at its annual Midsummer Magic benefit. The festivities featured a dinner, an auction and a dance party.
The tables were filled with benefactors of the museum and artists featured in the exhibition, "Artists Choose Parrish," where 41 contemporary artists with ties to the East End of Long Island were invited to select pieces from the institution's collection to show alongside their work.
Nanette Carter, an artist in the exhibition, said she wanted the pieces she picked to focus on abstract art and feature African American artists and women.
"It was so much fun -- 3,600 works of art to choose from -- and I had a ball," Ms. Carter said.
The event, which began with a presentation of Max Mara's 2024 resort collection, raised more than $ 1.2 million.
What piece from the Parrish could you stare at all day?
What piece from the museum would you want to take home?
What were you thinking about when you got dressed?
What were you thinking about when you got dressed?
What piece from the museum would you want to take home?
The Most Dressed features great outfits from up, down and all around town.
Photograph Gwyneth Paltrow, who hosted a dinner at her Hamptons home.; Indhira Arrington, left, and Adora Whitaker at the Parrish gala.; Irina Eicke at the Parrish gala.; Dr. Julius Few at the Paltrow dinner.; liya LeeKong, left, and Deborah Bancroft at the Parrish gala.; Jerry Seinfeld and Jimmy Fallon at the Paltrow dinner.; Hoofing it at the Parrish gala.; Di Mondo, in Givenchy, at the Parrish gala.; Brian Robinson at the Parrish gala.; Kimberly Blackwell, left, and Elizabeth Saltzman at the Paltrow dinner.; Rashaan Reid, in Mara Hoffman, at the Parrish gala.; Rachel Zoe at the Paltrow dinner.; Nanette Carter at the Parrish gala.; Mónica Ramírez- Montagut at the Parrish gala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST9.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Artists

Location: United States--US; Long Island New York

People: Fallon, Jimmy; Paltrow, Gwyneth

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/18/style/gwyneth-paltrow-goop-gucci-party-parrish-gala.html

Title: Summer Outings On Long Island:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 23, 2023

column: The Most Dressed

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840700192

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/summer-outings-on-long-island/docview/2840700192/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kering Is Under Pressure After Executive Shake-Up: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Michael J. De La Merced; Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Michael J. De La Merced; Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kering-is-under-pressure-after-executive-shake-up/docview/2840448587/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: An activist investor is said to be pushing for change at the French conglomerate, which announced a sweeping reorganization of its top ranks this week.
Kering, the French luxury goods company that owns brands like Balenciaga, Alexander McQueen and Yves Saint Laurent, surprised the fashion industry this week when it announced a sweeping reorganization of its top ranks, including the departure of Marco Bizzarri, the longtime chief executive of Gucci, Kering's premier brand.
The move came amid a year of declining sales and stock performance. But the conglomerate run by the billionaire François-Henri Pinault is also under pressure from Bluebell Capital Partners, an activist hedge fund in London that has tangled with luxury titans before, said a person with knowledge of the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Kering declined to comment.
Activists have turned on the luxury industry in recent years. Dan Loeb's Third Point as well as Artisan Partners called for change at Richemont, the owner of jewelry brands like Cartier and Van Cleef & Arpels. But the most active recently is Bluebell, a four-year-old, $ 250 million firm that has also taken aim at Richemont and the fashion brand Hugo Boss. (Bluebell has also pushed for change at BlackRock and the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline.)
Bluebell failed to persuade fellow Richemont shareholders to add Francesco Trapani, the former chief executive of Bulgari, as a director, but the conglomerate agreed to give public investors more influence.
Bluebell has an ambitious goal for Kering. Though the hedge fund is seeking a number of changes at the conglomerate and at Gucci, it has also proposed a merger with Richemont, the person with knowledge of the discussions said.
But making the deal happen will not be easy. Richemont's founder, Johann Rupert, said in May that he was not interested in a merger -- and had rejected such a proposal two years ago. Mr. Pinault may not be interested, either. Moreover, both luxury companies are controlled by their founding families, making it nearly impossible for outside investors to prevail in corporate elections.
Bluebell is hoping that restive shareholders will join its push. Kering's stock price has been eclipsed by rivals such as Hermes and LVMH in the past year, while sales rose just 1 percent, to 5.08 billion euros (then $ 5.58 billion) in the first quarter. But Kering's stock rose more than 7 percent on Wednesday after Bloomberg first reported on Bluebell's efforts.
Photograph François-Henri Pinault This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Hedge funds; Stockholders; Shareholder activism

Business indexing term: Subject: Hedge funds Stockholders Shareholder activism

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/21/business/dealbook/luxury-kering-activist-investor.html

Title: Kering Is Under Pressure After Executive Shake-Up:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840448587

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kering-is-under-pressure-after-executive-shake-up/docview/2840448587/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lawyer's Novel Tactics Put Bull's-Eye on Big Oil: [National Desk]

Author: Gelles, David; Schaff, Erin

Publication info: Gelles, David; Schaff, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lawyers-novel-tactics-put-bulls-eye-on-big-oil/docview/2840134392/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Missy Sims carefully picked her way through a field of ruined tombs in central Puerto Rico, in a cemetery where walls of water from Hurricane Maria had smashed open some coffins and sent others careering into a nearby stream.
Six years later, the burial place in Lares, where more than 1,700 graves were damaged, is still shattered.
"This is apocalyptic, end of the world, end of times stuff," said Ms. Sims, an attorney who is representing 16 Puerto Rican municipalities that are seeking to hold the fossil fuel industry responsible for the damage caused by a series of storms, including Maria.
Ms. Sims wiped away a tear as she surveyed the broken graves and absorbed the pain of the grieving families. But she also vowed to hold those responsible to account.
Ms. Sims, 54, may be the most surprising legal figure to emerge as the world grapples with the devastating impacts of a warming planet. An Armani-and-Rolex wearing observant Catholic from a small Midwest town who talks to God as she mulls her complex legal cases, Ms. Sims is also a constant TikTok poster whose dog has more followers than some celebrities.
And she is now the singular force behind a creative legal gambit to make oil and gas companies pay for the devastation being wrought by climate change in Puerto Rico. Her strategy is being carefully watched by the fossil fuel industry and environmental groups as well as other lawyers and municipalities.
The lawsuit she filed in November goes after a who's who of the fossil fuel industry -- Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell, BP and others. Ms. Sims argues that since 1965, those companies have produced 40 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, while at the same time colluding to deceive the public about the disastrous consequences of their actions.
The case is part of a new wave of litigation targeting oil, gas and coal companies over climate change, which is driven by the burning of their products. But it stands out in two significant ways.
It was the first to allege that, by downplaying the effects of global warming for decades, the fossil fuel companies violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, which was originally designed to crack down on organized crime. So-called RICO charges expose the defendants to potentially huge financial damages and open up a new front in their growing legal challenges.
The case was also the first to request damages from a specific weather event. In her 247-page complaint, Ms. Sims notes that scientific studies have shown that man-made global warming made the 2017 hurricanes more severe, causing Maria to rapidly intensify in a way that killed thousands and inflicted more than $ 100 billion worth of destruction on Puerto Rico. It was the worst storm to ever hit the island.
Exxon and ConocoPhillips declined to comment. In a statement, Shell said, "We do not believe the courtroom is the right venue to address climate change, but that smart policy from government and action from all sectors is the appropriate way to reach solutions and drive progress."
If the companies were found liable, the potential damages could run into the hundreds of billions of dollars, legal experts say.
"That's why the companies are so afraid of these cases," said Richard Wiles, president of the Center for Climate Integrity, a nonprofit organization that is helping garner support for the Puerto Rico case. "If they have to pay for the damages they caused, the costs get out of control really fast."
'God's Work'
This isn't the first time Ms. Sims has sued Exxon.
She got her start as an associate at a small-town firm in central Illinois run by an accomplished municipal lawyer who would start each workday by leading the office in prayer. That suited Ms. Sims.
"He didn't try to cram it down anybody's throat," Ms. Sims said. "He literally was just, 'Hey, let's do God's work today."'
Ms. Sims soaked up local code and helped communities prosecute people who wouldn't clean up after their pets, residents who didn't have their trailers on foundations and landowners who wouldn't cut their weeds.
After several years, the mayor of DePue, a tiny village on a lake in northern Illinois, told Ms. Sims about a much more serious nuisance. A former industrial site was polluting the community, and no one would clean it up.
The site, a shuttered zinc smelting facility that once helped make film for Hollywood, had closed in 1989. But hazardous amounts of lead, mercury, cyanide, and cadmium remained in the ground. When it rained, puddles turned bright blue from the heavy metals, and local residents were getting sick.
The village of 1,600 people had one of the highest rates of multiple sclerosis in the country, and residents suspected elevated cancer rates were also tied to the site. Yet after more than a decade of trying, the community couldn't get the site's current owners, which included Exxon, to pay for the cleanup.
"The town was just sick," Ms. Sims remembered. "They were sick of the inaction by the regulators, and by these multinational companies."
Determined to come up with a way to help, Ms. Sims went for an evening jog. It is on these long, meditative runs that she says she talks with God.
"I get along with the Holy Spirit and I'm just like, 'Help me. Help me help these people,"' she said. "And he said, 'Fine them."'
Ms. Sims prayed on it. "I fine people every day for having dog poop in their yards, tall weeds, broken windows," she remembered thinking. This wasn't so different, she reckoned.
The next day, she pitched her boss on the idea. He was in. And in 2006, Ms. Sims helped the village sue Exxon and the site's other owners -- for littering.
The companies appealed, and the suit was initially dismissed on technical grounds. But Ms. Sims filed an amended complaint and the case started making its way through the court system. Years of procedural maneuvers followed, and in 2013, the village settled with Exxon and the other owners for almost $ 1 million. Exxon did not respond to a request for comment.
It wasn't a lot of money, given the size of the problem, yet it set an important precedent. With her novel legal strategy, Ms. Sims had brought an oil giant to the bargaining table.
"Other law firms were like, 'How did you do that?"' she said.
Even before that settlement, Ms. Sims had taken on her next big case. An oil refinery in another small village, Roxana, Ill., had polluted the groundwater with benzene, a carcinogen, and the site's owners, Shell and ConocoPhillips, wouldn't clean it up.
Ms. Sims helped Roxana file 230 tickets against each company for littering in traffic court, setting off another round of onerous litigation for some of the country's biggest fossil fuel companies. Once again, they settled. In 2017, Shell and ConocoPhillips agreed to pay almost $ 5 million.
For Ms. Sims, it was validation of her hunch that the smallest of towns could take on the world's biggest companies.
In short order, Ms. Sims joined Milberg, one of the largest class action firms in the world.
The firm was working on bringing cases against companies over the opioid crisis, and sent Ms. Sims to Puerto Rico in 2017 to help build a case on behalf of local governments struggling with the fallout from drug addiction. Months later, Hurricane Maria hit.
After the storm, Ms. Sims returned to continue her work and was stunned. "I could not believe the devastation," she said. "Everything was leveled. It looked like a bomb had gone off. It looked like Hiroshima."
As she drove across the island to meet with local officials about the opioid crisis, it occurred to her that Puerto Ricans were now suffering at the hands of another set of corporations. Fossil fuel companies had warmed the planet and misled the public about global warming, making billions along the way. It wasn't so different from what had happened in DePue and Roxana, she thought.
Then, she said, God told her to sue Exxon again.
"The Holy Spirit tells me what to do," she said. "This bomb that went off here was climate change related. We just need to prove it."
'I Hold Them Responsible'
The morning after Ms. Sims visited the cemetery in Puerto Rico, she was up at dawn preparing for the day. With a recording of the Bible playing on her iPhone, she applied her makeup and donned a pink corduroy suit and a silk Gucci scarf, then marched out the door carrying a large Fendi handbag.
"It's a show of respect and confidence," she said about the meticulous care she takes with her appearance. "I'm meeting people all the time, and you want them to know that you're taking them seriously. That's the way I was raised."
An hour later, she arrived in Caguas, a small city nestled in a lush valley south of San Juan. Accompanied by an associate from her firm, Ms. Sims greeted several city officials and unspooled the plan of attack.
She described how starting in the 1980s, companies including Exxon understood that fossil fuel emissions would rapidly heat the planet, but began a coordinated effort to conceal that information from the public. How they waged a sophisticated lobbying effort to block the regulation of emissions. How they sowed doubt around the increasingly conclusive science of climate change.
And how Shell produced an eerily prescient memo in 1998 that predicted that a "series of violent storms" would hit the Eastern coast of the United States, and that following the storms, there would be a "class-action suit against the U.S. government and fossil-fuel companies on the grounds of neglecting what scientists (including their own) have been saying for years: that something must be done."
As the meeting concluded, the city attorney, Monica Yvette Vega Conde, said that regardless of the outcome, it was important to bring the case.
"Mostly we want to make that statement," she said. "It's real, it's here and it happened to us."
Afterward, Ms. Sims indulged in a ritual that keeps her grounded in between emotional meetings. She stopped for ice cream. Eating a Nutella-flavored Frosty from Wendy's, Ms. Sims checked TikTok and showed off a new viral video of her dog, GeorgyGirl, who had amassed 2.2 million followers.
From Wendy's, she headed to the coastal city of Loíza, another of the 16 municipalities that brought the case. Hurricane Maria sent ocean water flooding into its streets, ripped the roofs off buildings and tore up roads. Six years later, City Hall was still in tatters. Skylights were broken, blue tarps covered the roof and the walls were buckled.
The mayor, Julia María Nazario Fuentes, listened to an update on the case and then escorted the lawyers to the shoreline, where a sidewalk had crumbled into the sea in 2017 and remained nothing more than a pile of rubble.
Hurricane Maria was made more powerful and dropped more rainfall because of man-made climate change, studies have shown. Hurricanes are becoming more destructive as the atmosphere and water temperatures rise because of global warming, scientists say. And the waters around Puerto Rico have warmed substantially in recent years, leading to the rapid intensification that made the storms so powerful.
"That warmer water around Puerto Rico, that was the rocket fuel," Ms. Sims said. "That's the key to the case."
As the mayor stood on her city's ruined beachside promenade, she said the more she learned about the fossil fuel companies named in the complaint, the angrier she got.
"I hold them responsible for everything," the mayor said. "Human beings have to be more responsible in protecting what God gave us as a gift."
'Settle With the World'
When Ms. Sims is not in Puerto Rico, she is at home in Princeton, Ill., where she lives alone, not far from where she grew up, and not far from DePue. Working from an antique wooden desk with four computer monitors, she pores over evidence and refines her case. When she needs a break, she goes into the backyard and films her dog frolicking in the swimming pool.
By early next year, it should be clear whether the case against the fossil fuel industry clears enough legal hurdles to move toward trial.
Ms. Sims doesn't expect a settlement, given the sweeping nature of the charges. "If they settle with us, they will have to settle with the world," she said.
Robert Brulle, a visiting professor at Brown University who has researched the efforts by fossil fuel companies to mislead the public, said he believed Ms. Sims had made too much of some details in the Puerto Rico complaint, but that the overall argument was sound.
"I can tell you that these companies worked together to stop climate action," he said. "Whether that passes legal muster, I don't know."
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island and that state's former attorney general, is also paying attention. He has compared the fossil fuel industry's tactics to the tobacco industry's efforts to downplay the health effects of smoking.
Just as tobacco companies faced RICO charges and were ultimately found guilty in federal court, Senator Whitehouse said oil companies were vulnerable to the kind of racketeering case that Ms. Sims has now brought on behalf of Puerto Rico.
"The common thread there is that somebody is willing to lie for money," Senator Whitehouse said.
Already, the Puerto Rico case is having an impact. Just days after Ms. Sims returned from her trip, the city of Hoboken, N.J., amended its complaint against big oil companies to include state RICO charges.
And in June, lawyers in Oregon sued fossil fuel companies over a deadly heat dome in 2021, the second time, after the Puerto Rico case, that lawyers have brought claims against oil and gas companies for damages from a specific weather event.
From her home office, Ms. Sims applauded the developments in New Jersey and Oregon. It was more validation, she said, that she was doing God's work.
"I believe the Holy Spirit is my co-counsel," she said. "He's never steered me wrong."
Audio produced by Jack D'Isidoro.
Audio produced by Jack D'Isidoro.
Photograph Graves damaged by Hurricane Maria, top, and a convent in Lares, one of 16 municipalities in Puerto Rico that are seeking to hold big energy companies responsible for the damage caused by storms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN SCHAFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Ms. Sims talking to city officials in Lares, and the Phillips 66 Wood River Refinery in Roxana, Ill. "I believe the Holy Spirit is my co-counsel," Ms. Sims said. "He's never steered me wrong." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN SCHAFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES; LUKE SHARRETT/BLOOMBERG) (A18); Missy Sims, a lawyer with the firm Milberg, one of the biggest class-action firms in the world, is behind an effort that could force fossil fuel companies to pay hundreds of billions in damages. (A18-A19); Julia María Nazario Fuentes, the mayor of Loíza, met with Ms. Sims and Luis Almeida, a lawyer from Milberg's Puerto Rico office. Six years after Hurricane Maria, many buildings in Loíza remain in serious disrepair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN SCHAFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) This article appeared in print on page A1, A18, A19.

Subject: Global warming; Hurricanes; Fossil fuels; Climate change; Litigation; Racketeering; Towns; Narcotics

Location: Puerto Rico; United States--US; Illinois

Company / organization: Name: ConocoPhillips Co; NAICS: 211120; Name: Exxon Mobil Corp; NAICS: 211120, 457110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/19/climate/climate-lawsuit-puerto-rico.html

Title: Lawyer's Novel Tactics Put Bull's-Eye on Big Oil:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840134392

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lawyers-novel-tactics-put-bulls-eye-on-big-oil/docview/2840134392/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

She’s on a Mission From God: Suing Big Oil for Climate Damages

Author: Gelles, David

Publication info: Gelles, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-s-on-mission-god-suing-big-oil-climate/docview/2840048872/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Missy Sims carefully picked her way through a field of ruined tombs in central Puerto Rico, in a cemetery where walls of water from Hurricane Maria had smashed open some coffins and sent others careering into a nearby stream.
Six years later, the burial place in Lares, where more than 1,700 graves were damaged, is still shattered.
“This is apocalyptic, end of the world, end of times stuff,” said Sims, an attorney who is representing 16 Puerto Rican municipalities that are seeking to hold the fossil fuel industry responsible for the damage caused by a series of storms, including Maria.
Sims wiped away a tear as she surveyed the broken graves and absorbed the pain of the grieving families. But she also vowed to hold those responsible to account.
Sims, 54, may be the most surprising legal figure to emerge as the world grapples with the devastating impacts of a warming planet. An Armani-and-Rolex-wearing observant Catholic from a small Midwest town who talks to God as she mulls her complex legal cases, Sims is also a constant TikTok poster whose dog has more followers than some celebrities.
And she is now the singular force behind a creative legal gambit to make oil and gas companies pay for the devastation being wrought by climate change in Puerto Rico. Her strategy is being carefully watched by the fossil fuel industry and environmental groups as well as other lawyers and municipalities.
The lawsuit she filed in November goes after a who’s who of the fossil fuel industry — Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell, BP and others. Sims argues that since 1965, those companies have produced 40% of global greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time colluding to deceive the public about the disastrous consequences of their actions.
The case is part of a new wave of litigation targeting oil, gas and coal companies over climate change, which is driven by the burning of their products. But it stands out in two significant ways.
It was the first to allege that by downplaying the effects of global warming for decades, the fossil fuel companies violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, which was originally designed to crack down on organized crime. So-called RICO charges expose the defendants to potentially huge financial damages and open up a new front in their growing legal challenges.
The case was also the first to request damages from a specific weather event. In her 247-page complaint, Sims notes that scientific studies have shown that human-made global warming made the 2017 hurricanes more severe, causing Maria to rapidly intensify in a way that killed thousands and inflicted more than $100 billion worth of destruction on Puerto Rico. It was the worst storm to ever hit the island.
Exxon and ConocoPhillips declined to comment. In a statement, Shell said, “We do not believe the courtroom is the right venue to address climate change, but that smart policy from government and action from all sectors is the appropriate way to reach solutions and drive progress.”
If the companies were found liable, the potential damages could run into the hundreds of billions of dollars, legal experts say.
“That’s why the companies are so afraid of these cases,” said Richard Wiles, president of the Center for Climate Integrity, a nonprofit organization that is helping garner support for the Puerto Rico case. “If they have to pay for the damages they caused, the costs get out of control really fast.”
‘God’s Work’
This isn’t the first time Sims has sued Exxon.
She got her start as an associate at a small-town firm in central Illinois run by an accomplished municipal lawyer who would start each workday by leading the office in prayer. That suited Sims.
“He didn’t try to cram it down anybody’s throat,” Sims said. “He literally was just, ‘Hey, let’s do God’s work today.’”
Sims soaked up local code and helped communities prosecute people who wouldn’t clean up after their pets, residents who didn’t have their trailers on foundations and landowners who wouldn’t cut their weeds.
After several years, the mayor of DePue, a tiny village on a lake in northern Illinois, told Sims about a much more serious nuisance. A former industrial site was polluting the community, and no one would clean it up.
The site, a shuttered zinc smelting facility that once helped make film for Hollywood, had closed in 1989. But hazardous amounts of lead, mercury, cyanide and cadmium remained in the ground. When it rained, puddles turned bright blue from the heavy metals, and local residents were getting sick.
The village of 1,600 people had one of the highest rates of multiple sclerosis in the country, and residents suspected elevated cancer rates were also tied to the site. Yet after more than a decade of trying, the community couldn’t get the site’s current owners, which included Exxon, to pay for the cleanup.
“The town was just sick,” Sims remembered. “They were sick of the inaction by the regulators and by these multinational companies.”
Determined to come up with a way to help, Sims went for an evening jog. It is on these long, meditative runs that she says she talks with God.
“I get along with the Holy Spirit, and I’m just like, ‘Help me. Help me help these people,’” she said. “And he said, ‘Fine them.’”
Sims prayed on it. “I fine people every day for having dog poop in their yards, tall weeds, broken windows,” she remembered thinking. This wasn’t so different, she reckoned.
The next day, she pitched her boss on the idea. He was in. And in 2006, Sims helped the village sue Exxon and the site’s other owners — for littering.
The companies appealed, and the suit was initially dismissed on technical grounds. But Sims filed an amended complaint, and the case started making its way through the court system. Years of procedural maneuvers followed, and in 2013, the village settled with Exxon and the other owners for almost $1 million. Exxon did not respond to a request for comment.
It wasn’t a lot of money, given the size of the problem, yet it set an important precedent. With her novel legal strategy, Sims had brought an oil giant to the bargaining table.
“Other law firms were like, ‘How did you do that?’” she said.
Even before that settlement, Sims had taken on her next big case. An oil refinery in another small village, Roxana, Illinois, had polluted the groundwater with benzene, a carcinogen, and the site’s owners, Shell and ConocoPhillips, wouldn’t clean it up.
Sims helped Roxana file 230 tickets against each company for littering in traffic court, setting off another round of onerous litigation for some of the country’s biggest fossil fuel companies. Once again, they settled. In 2017, Shell and ConocoPhillips agreed to pay almost $5 million.
For Sims, it was validation of her hunch that the smallest of towns could take on the world’s biggest companies.
In short order, Sims joined Milberg, one of the largest class-action firms in the world.
The firm was working on bringing cases against companies over the opioid crisis and sent Sims to Puerto Rico in 2017 to help build a case on behalf of local governments struggling with the fallout from drug addiction. Months later, Hurricane Maria hit.
After the storm, Sims returned to continue her work and was stunned. “I could not believe the devastation,” she said. “Everything was leveled. It looked like a bomb had gone off. It looked like Hiroshima.”
As she drove across the island to meet with local officials about the opioid crisis, it occurred to her that Puerto Ricans were now suffering at the hands of another set of corporations. Fossil fuel companies had warmed the planet and misled the public about global warming, making billions along the way. It wasn’t so different from what had happened in DePue and Roxana, she thought.
Then, she said, God told her to sue Exxon again.
“The Holy Spirit tells me what to do,” she said. “This bomb that went off here was climate change-related. We just need to prove it.”
‘I Hold Them Responsible’
The morning after Sims visited the cemetery in Puerto Rico, she was up at dawn preparing for the day. With a recording of the Bible playing on her iPhone, she applied her makeup and donned a pink corduroy suit and a silk Gucci scarf, then marched out the door carrying a large Fendi handbag.
“It’s a show of respect and confidence,” she said about the meticulous care she takes with her appearance. “I’m meeting people all the time, and you want them to know that you’re taking them seriously. That’s the way I was raised.”
An hour later, she arrived in Caguas, a small city nestled in a lush valley south of San Juan. Accompanied by an associate from her firm, Sims greeted several city officials and unspooled the plan of attack.
She described how, starting in the 1980s, companies including Exxon understood that fossil fuel emissions would rapidly heat the planet but began a coordinated effort to conceal that information from the public. How they waged a sophisticated lobbying effort to block the regulation of emissions. How they sowed doubt around the increasingly conclusive science of climate change.
And how Shell produced an eerily prescient memo in 1998 that predicted that a “series of violent storms” would hit the Eastern coast of the United States and that, following the storms, there would be a “class-action suit against the U.S. government and fossil fuel companies on the grounds of neglecting what scientists (including their own) have been saying for years: that something must be done.”
As the meeting concluded, the city attorney, Monica Yvette Vega Conde, said that regardless of the outcome, it was important to bring the case.
“Mostly we want to make that statement,” she said. “It’s real, it’s here, and it happened to us.”
Afterward, Sims indulged in a ritual that keeps her grounded in between emotional meetings. She stopped for ice cream. Eating a Nutella-flavored Frosty from Wendy’s, Sims checked TikTok and showed off a new viral video of her dog, GeorgyGirl, who had amassed 2.2 million followers.
From Wendy’s, she headed to the coastal city of Loíza, another of the 16 municipalities that brought the case. Hurricane Maria sent ocean water flooding into its streets, ripped the roofs off buildings and tore up roads. Six years later, City Hall was still in tatters. Skylights were broken, blue tarps covered the roof, and the walls were buckled.
The mayor, Julia María Nazario Fuentes, listened to an update on the case and then escorted the lawyers to the shoreline, where a sidewalk had crumbled into the sea in 2017 and remained nothing more than a pile of rubble.
Hurricane Maria was made more powerful and dropped more rainfall because of human-made climate change, studies have shown. Hurricanes are becoming more destructive as the atmosphere and water temperatures rise because of global warming, scientists say. And the waters around Puerto Rico have warmed substantially in recent years, leading to the rapid intensification that made the storms so powerful.
“That warmer water around Puerto Rico, that was the rocket fuel,” Sims said. “That’s the key to the case.”
As the mayor stood on her city’s ruined beachside promenade, she said the more she learned about the fossil fuel companies named in the complaint, the angrier she got.
“I hold them responsible for everything,” the mayor said. “Human beings have to be more responsible in protecting what God gave us as a gift.”
‘Settle With the World’
When Sims is not in Puerto Rico, she is at home in Princeton, Illinois, where she lives alone, not far from where she grew up, and not far from DePue. Working from an antique wooden desk with four computer monitors, she pores over evidence and refines her case. When she needs a break, she goes into the backyard and films her dog frolicking in the swimming pool.
By early next year, it should be clear whether the case against the fossil fuel industry clears enough legal hurdles to move toward trial.
Sims doesn’t expect a settlement, given the sweeping nature of the charges. “If they settle with us, they will have to settle with the world,” she said.
Robert Brulle, a visiting professor at Brown University who has researched the efforts by fossil fuel companies to mislead the public, said he believed that Sims had made too much of some details in the Puerto Rico complaint but that the overall argument was sound.
“I can tell you that these companies worked together to stop climate action,” he said. “Whether that passes legal muster, I don’t know.”
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., that state’s former attorney general, is also paying attention. He has compared the fossil fuel industry’s tactics with the tobacco industry’s efforts to downplay the health effects of smoking.
Just as tobacco companies faced RICO charges and were ultimately found guilty in federal court, Whitehouse said oil companies were vulnerable to the kind of racketeering case that Sims has now brought on behalf of Puerto Rico.
“The common thread there is that somebody is willing to lie for money,” Whitehouse said.
Already, the Puerto Rico case is having an impact. Just days after Sims returned from her trip, the city of Hoboken, New Jersey, amended its complaint against big oil companies to include state RICO charges.
And in June, lawyers in Oregon sued fossil fuel companies over a deadly heat dome in 2021 — the second time, after the Puerto Rico case, that lawyers have brought claims against oil and gas companies for damages from a specific weather event.
From her home office, Sims applauded the developments in New Jersey and Oregon. It was more validation, she said, that she was doing God’s work.
“I believe the Holy Spirit is my co-counsel,” she said. “He’s never steered me wrong.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Global warming; Hurricanes; Fossil fuels; Climate change; Litigation; Towns; Racketeering; Narcotics

Location: Puerto Rico; United States--US; Illinois

Company / organization: Name: ConocoPhillips Co; NAICS: 211120

Identifier / keyword: Floods; Hurricane Maria (2017); Organized Crime; Hoboken (Nj); Global Warming; Natural Gas; Gelles, David; Chevron Corporation; Netherlands; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Rhode Island; Books And Literature; Pets; Conocophillips; Oregon; Air Pollution; Cemeteries; United States; Corporations; Armani, Giorgio, Spa; San Juan (Puerto Rico); Princeton University; Oceans And Seas; Politics And Government; Weather; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Bp Plc; Illinois; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Puerto Rico; Rolex Sa; Fendi Spa; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Rackete ering And Racketeers; Decisions And Verdicts; Water Pollution; Roman Catholic Church; Brown University; Shell Plc; Dogs; Hazardous And Toxic Substances; Fashion And Apparel; Local Government; International Relations; Center For Climate Integrity; New Jersey; Workplace Environment; Deaths (Fatalities); Exxon Mobil Corp; Tiktok (Bytedance); Corporate Social Responsibility; Tombs And Tombstones; Hurricanes And Tropical Storms; Lares (Puerto Rico); Labor And Jobs; Water; Compensation For Damages (Law); Names, Organizational; Rain

Title: She’s on a Mission From God: Suing Big Oil for Climate Damages

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-20T22:55:18Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840048872

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-s-on-mission-god-suing-big-oil-climate/docview/2840048872/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chief Executive of Gucci Is Out Amid Declining Sales and a Shake-Up of Leadership at Kering: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth; Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth; Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chief-executive-gucci-is-out-amid-declining-sales/docview/2838922745/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The fashion label's owner, the Kering group, unveiled a new roster of executives as it tries to begin a new chapter and leave the shadow of its rival, LVMH.
For years, Marco Bizzarri was one of the most well-known and respected executives in the global luxury business. Bald and boldly suited, he was the architect behind the meteoric success of Gucci, the largest fashion brand in the stable owned by the French group Kering, which also includes Balenciaga, Bottega Veneta and Saint Laurent.
But on Tuesday, after a bruising year of declining sales and the abrupt exit of Gucci's longtime creative director, Alessandro Michele, Mr. Bizzarri's departure from the fashion house after eight years as its leader was announced quietly by its parent group. The news was buried in the third paragraph of a memo Kering released that outlined a major organizational shake-up as François-Henri Pinault, the chairman and chief executive, tries to write a new chapter for the fortunes of Gucci and the conglomerate.
In the same announcement, Kering said Francesca Bellettini, the chief executive of Yves Saint Laurent, would become the conglomerate's deputy chief executive for brand development, a promotion that will require all Kering brand chief executives to report to her and make her one of the most powerful women in the luxury industry. Jean-Marc Duplaix, Kering's chief financial officer, will also become a deputy chief executive, overseeing operations and finance.
"We are building a more robust organization to fully capture the growth of the global luxury market," Mr. Pinault said in the memo. "I am confident that the changes we are announcing today will set Kering on a path to success and profitable growth over the long term."
The management reshuffle follows the group's recent purchase of the beauty brand Creed, the first big acquisition after its decision in February to create a separate beauty division -- yet another signal of Kering's plans for reinvention.
And it comes in the wake of multiple reports that Mr. Pinault is in advanced negotiations to buy a majority stake in the Hollywood talent agency CAA under the aegis of Artémis, his family investment company, which is the main shareholder in Kering. A spokesman for Mr. Pinault and Artémis declined to comment about those reports.
With Kering's buzzy labels and outsize cultural influence, a dominant industry narrative has arisen casting the conglomerate as an archrival to LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the largest group in the luxury industry. But LVMH, with more than 75 luxury brands, dwarfs Kering's 14 labels in both sales revenue and market capitalization.
Lately, Kering has stumbled. Its stock performance has lagged that of key rivals like Hermes and LVMH, while several scandals and controversies inside some of the biggest Kering fashion houses have roiled the group.
Balenciaga, once the hottest brand on the fashion calendar, had a spectacular fall from grace last autumn after it was accused of promoting pedophilia in its advertising campaigns; it is still trying to regain momentum. Then there were the continuing headaches at Gucci, which generated two-thirds of Kering profits in 2021 and which, under Mr. Michele, was widely lauded for inaugurating a new era of magpie inclusivity and emotion in fashion.
However, Mr. Michele -- largely unknown in fashion until he was handpicked by Mr. Bizzarri to lead the brand -- left in November after disagreeing with management about Gucci's direction. He was replaced by Sabato De Sarno, who will show his debut collection during Milan Fashion Week in September.
The public line -- until now -- was that Mr. Bizzarri, who oversaw the growth of Gucci revenues to more than 10 billion euros from €3.89 billion, would stay on to steer the house into its next era.
Instead, he will be replaced in September by Jean-François Palus, the managing director of the Kering group, who will fill the role until a successor is found.
In an investment note, Citibank called the moves "well-thought and logical, reinforcing decision-making, governance and succession while showing further determination to transform Gucci."
Photograph The Gucci chief executive, Marco Bizzarri, right, with the label's former creative director, Alessandro Michele. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUGLIELMO MANGIAPANE/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Executives

People: Michele, Alessandro; Bizzarri, Marco

Company / organization: Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490; Name: Guccio Gucci SpA; NAICS: 315250, 454110, 458110, 459999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/18/business/gucci-ceo-leaves-kering.html

Title: Chief Executive of Gucci Is Out Amid Declining Sales and a Shake-Up of Leadership at Kering:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 19, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2838922745

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chief-executive-gucci-is-out-amid-declining-sales/docview/2838922745/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 19, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jay-Z Tours His Life, And So Can You: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Coscarelli, Joe

Publication info: Coscarelli, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jay-z-tours-his-life-so-can-you/docview/2837236339/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "The Book of Hov," an elaborate summer exhibition at the borough's main branch, was quietly conceived by his team as a surprise tribute that opens Friday.
Earlier this week, when passages of Jay-Z lyrics from songs like "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)" and "Justify My Thug" appeared on the Art Deco-style, curved limestone facade of the Brooklyn Public Library's main branch, fans and passers-by could only speculate on the occasion for the building's sudden makeover. A surprise concert for the rapper's home borough? A tribute to the 50th anniversary of hip-hop this summer?
The answer, it turned out, was neither -- and also a secret even from the man himself.
On Thursday evening, when Jay-Z entered the library for a private event surrounded by an inner circle of family, friends and business associates, he was greeted by his live band playing instrumental versions of his hits out front, and a career-spanning archival exhibition that he never asked for inside.
"I know he wouldn't let us do this," said Desiree Perez, the chief executive of Jay-Z's entertainment empire Roc Nation, about keeping such elaborate plans from the boss. "This could never happen if he was involved."
Featuring artwork, music, memorabilia, ephemera and large-scale recreations of touchstones from a sprawling career, "The Book of Hov," which will run through the summer, might seem more at home at the Brooklyn Museum down the block. But by installing the showcase across eight zones of a functioning library, its architects are aiming to bring aspirational celebrity extravagance to a free public haven just a few miles from the Marcy Houses where Jay-Z grew up.
"Jay belongs to the people," Perez said. "It's a place that feels comfortable. It's not intimidating. A lot of people go to the museum, but a lot of people don't."
Only the debut on Thursday was meant to be exclusive. Following a private tour through his own memories, Jay-Z made himself scarce when the tightly controlled doors opened, content to leave the V.I.P. guests among representations of his many likenesses, from Mafioso M.C. to boardroom mogul to social justice string-puller.
Even his elusive wife, Beyoncé, mingled more, at least momentarily, as crowds gathered outside to catch glimpses of the Jay-Z extended universe -- athletes like Jayson Tatum and Robinson Cano; the musicians Lil Uzi Vert, DJ Khaled and Questlove; the director Josh Safdie and the businessman Michael Rubin.
By Friday, when the exhibit opens to the masses, the hors d'oeuvres and passed drinks -- Jay-Z's brands, naturally -- would be gone. But remaining among the stacks are statues, sneakers, paintings, platinum plaques, trophies and news clippings tied to Jay-Z's 13 albums and the companies he founded, including Rocawear and Tidal.
The library had initially pitched Jay-Z as an honoree for its annual fund-raising gala. But when its chief executive, Linda E. Johnson -- the wife of another Jay-Z ally, the developer Bruce Ratner -- floated the idea to Perez of Roc Nation, the pair pivoted.
"I just asked her, 'How big is the library?"' Perez recalled. "And when she said 350,000 square feet, I couldn't believe it."
Throughout the pandemic, Perez and Roc Nation had been plotting to display artifacts that conveyed Jay-Z's influence across music, business and broader culture, including the pallets' worth of master recordings he had regained ownership of over the years.
"That archive belongs in Brooklyn," said Johnson, who oversaw the merger of the Brooklyn Public Library and Brooklyn Historical Society.
Together, the teams began planning "The Book of Hov" in January, tapping the production designers Bruce and Shelley Rodgers, Emmy-winning veterans of the Super Bowl halftime show, as well as the creative agency General Idea to conceive and execute the elaborate project.
It wasn't just displaying memorabilia. Beyond the library's main atrium, beneath an enormous Jay-Z collage, now sits a full-scale replica of the main room from Baseline Recording Studios, where Jay-Z created some of his best-known songs. Every detail had to be correct, down to the TV size and the tub of Dum Dums on the counter.

"They had the wrong couch, the wrong soundboard," said Juan Perez, a Roc Nation executive and longtime friend of Jay-Z's, who designed the original studio and gave plenty of notes for the recreation.
Another area of the library features playable turntables and vinyl representing the samples used across Jay-Z's catalog, surrounded by the encased tape reels, floppy disks and CDs containing his original music.
Bruce Rodgers, the production designer now working on his 18th Super Bowl halftime show, called the project "probably the most intense installation I've ever been involved in," adding: "We didn't want to interrupt the normal workings of the library, but we wanted to make a statement." That included flying in "ninjas" from the West Coast who could rappel up and down the building to install the lyrical facade in time.
"People thought I was a little out of my mind," Johnson, the library executive, said. "I don't think I'd be going out on a limb to say that this is the biggest exhibition we've ever done."
While the valuables will require additional security, Brooklyn Public Library was not paying for any of the production for the show, she added. "Roc Nation is doing a lot for us financially," Johnson said, including a substantial donation tied to the gala in October, when Jay-Z and his mother, Gloria Carter, will be honored.
In the meantime, Jay-Z will also be helping, perhaps unwittingly, with sign-ups. In addition to the draw of the exhibition itself, the library is producing 13 limited-edition library card variations featuring its homegrown star -- one for each album.
"I'm concerned about crowds," Johnson said, conveying equal parts trepidation and excitement. "We'll run out, I suspect."
Photograph A mural by Jazz Grant of imagery from Jay-Z's archives greets visitors to Brooklyn Public Library's "The Book of Hov." "Ninjas" helped install the lyrical facade, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1); Top from left, a private event on Thursday where Jay-Z toured the show, and one section featuring playable turntables and vinyl representing samples he used. Center, a reel-to-reel machine displayed with a Betacam master tape of the song "99 Problems." Above, a recreation of the main room at Baseline Recording Studios, where Jay-Z recorded. Below, Nicola Yeoman and Dan Tobin Smith's mash-up of instruments shot for the "Blueprint 3" cover, and a Gucci jacket tied to the release of Jay-Z's 2010 memoir, "Decoded." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES; SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Archives & records; Public libraries; Awards & honors; Museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Museums

People: Jay-Z (rapper)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/14/arts/music/jay-z-book-of-hov-brooklyn-public-library.html

Title: Jay-Z Tours His Life, And So Can You:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 15, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2837236339

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jay-z-tours-his-life-so-can-you/docview/2837236339/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Still Spectacular, and Seeking Perfection: [Review]

Author: Zoladz, Lindsay

Publication info: Zoladz, Lindsay. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/still-spectacular-seeking-perfection/docview/2834856315/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The pop superstar's first solo outing in seven years draws on the dance-music cultures that inspired her 2022 album, and her work that led up to that ecstatic release.
It was a crowd that had come to dance, dressed for a rodeo in the distant future: sparkling cowboy hats, silvery fringe, outré sunglasses and any other sartorial detail that represented "Renaissance," Beyoncé's dazzling seventh album and the occasion for her first solo tour in seven years. But as the imperial pop superstar took the stage at the Rogers Center in Toronto on Saturday night for the first North American show of her Renaissance World Tour, she reminded the club-ready audience just who was in charge. Because if they were prepared to move, she was going to make them wait a little longer.
Setting the table for a two-and-a-half-hour performance that was visually spectacular, vocally ambitious and sometimes tonally confused, Beyoncé, 41 -- clad in a glimmering chain-mail mini dress -- began the show with a nearly 30-minute stretch of ballads and deep cuts that harked back to her past: an acrobatically sung solo rendition of the 2001 Destiny's Child track "Dangerously in Love," a bit of "Flaws and All" from the deluxe edition of her 2007 album "B'Day," and the sparse, soulful "1+1" from 2011, which she belted atop a mirrored piano.
It was a both a display of her vocal agility and a curiously traditional way to start a show centered around an album as conceptually bold and forward-thinking as "Renaissance" -- a sprawling, knowingly referential romp through the history of dance music, with an emphasis on the contributions of Black and queer innovators. Here, instead, was a stopover in Beyoncé's Middle Ages.
As a live entertainer, though, she has earned a fresh start. The Renaissance World Tour shows are some of Beyoncé's first appearances since her dazzling, commanding performance headlining the 2018 Coachella festival (later released as the concert film and live album "Homecoming"), which served as a kind of mic-drop capstone to her career thus far. It would be futile to repeat that, and difficult to top it. The loose, fluid "Renaissance," still said to be the first part of a trilogy, represents a new chapter in Beyoncé's recorded oeuvre. And once the show finally found its center and, however belatedly, welcomed the crowd to the Renaissance, it heralded her maturity as a performer, too.
The show's look -- as projected in diamond-sharp definition onto a panoramic screen -- conjured Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" by way of the 1990 drag ball documentary "Paris Is Burning." After a lengthy video introduction, Beyoncé emerged from a chrome cocoon and vamped through a thrilling stretch of the first suite of "Renaissance" songs; during "Cozy," most strikingly, a pair of hydraulic robotic arms centered her body in industrial picture frames, like a post-human Mona Lisa.
In May, when Beyoncé began the European leg of the Renaissance World Tour, rumors swirled that she may have been recovering from a foot injury, since her choreography was a bit more static and less stomp-heavy than usual. The Toronto show did nothing to dispel that chatter, but it also showed that it doesn't matter much. Perhaps because of some constraints, Beyoncé has embraced new means of bodily expression. She brought the flavor of ball movements into the show and served face all night, curling her lip like a hungry predator, widening her eyes in mock surprise, scrunching her features in exaggerated disgust.
Few seats in the stadium provided a legible view of Beyoncé's face, of course, though the screen took care of that. She played expertly to the cameras that followed her every choreographed move, aware of how she'd appear to the majority of the audience and -- perhaps just as crucially -- in FOMO-inducing social media videos. The stage itself was breathtaking, featuring an arced cutout section of the screen that made for playful visuals, but its full grandeur was not visible from many of the side seats, making the band and sometimes the dancers difficult to see.
The screen, though, was the point. Beyoncé's two solo releases before "Renaissance" -- her 2013 self-titled album and "Lemonade," from 2016 -- were billed as "visual albums," featuring a fully realized music video for each track. Again toying with her fans' anticipation, she has still not released any videos from "Renaissance," giving the previously unseen graphics that filled her expansive backdrop an added impact, and making them feel more weighty than a convenient way to pass time between costume changes.
Many of the tour's outfits struck a balance between Beyoncé's signature styles -- megawatt sparkles, high-cut bodysuits -- and the futuristic bent of "Renaissance." She played haute couture bee in custom Mugler by Casey Cadwallader and glimmered in a Gucci corset draped with crystals. But the night's most memorable look -- so instantly iconic that a few fans had already tried to replicate it, from photos of the European shows -- was a flesh-tone catsuit by the Spanish label Loewe, embellished with a few suggestively placed, red-fingernailed hands.
Throughout the set, Beyoncé wove interpolations of her predecessors' songs throughout her own, as if to place her music in a larger continuum. The grandiose "I Care" segued into a bit of "River Deep, Mountain High," in honor of Tina Turner, who died in May. The cheery throwback "Love on Top" contained elements of the Jackson 5's "Want You Back." Most effective was the "Queens Remix" she performed of "Break My Soul," which mashes up the "Renaissance" leadoff single with Madonna's "Vogue," paying homage to the mainstream pop star who brought queer ball culture to the masses before her. (The merch on sale at a Renaissance Tour pop-up shop in the days before the show included a hand-held fan emblazoned with the song title "Heated" for $ 40. It sold out.)
The show contained moments that sometimes felt conceptually cluttered and at odds with the "Renaissance" album's sharp vision, like dorm-room-poster quotes from Albert Einstein and Jim Morrison that filled the screen during video montages. The middle stretch, arriving with a lively "Formation," featured Beyoncé and her dancers clad in camo print, riding and occasionally writhing atop a prop military vehicle. There was a wordless, gestural power in the moment she and her entourage held their fists in the air, referencing a salute that had rankled some easily rankle-able viewers of the 2016 Super Bowl Halftime Show. But if Beyoncé was calling for any more specific forms of protest or political awareness -- especially in a moment when drag culture and queer expression are being threatened at home and throughout the world -- those went unarticulated.
Beyoncé's endurance as a world-class performer remained the show's raison d'être; she is the rare major pop star who prizes live vocal prowess. By the end of the long night -- and especially during the striking closing number, the disco reverie "Summer Renaissance," when she floated above the crowd like a deity on a glittering horse -- she extended the microphone to lend out some of the high notes to her eager and adoring fans. "Until next time," she said, keeping the stage banter relatively minimal and pat. "Drive home safe!"
Even when Beyoncé embraces styles and cultures known for their improvisational looseness, she still seems to be striving toward perfection -- a pageant smile always threatens to break through the stank face. Commanding a stadium-sized audience, she was an introvert wearing an extrovert's armor. That tension is part of both her boundless charm and her occasional limitations as a performer. And it makes moments of genuine spontaneity all the more prized.
Naturally, #RenaissanceWorldTour was trending on Twitter long after the show, but one of the clips that went viral was unplanned. During a rousing performance of her early hit "Diva," Beyoncé accidentally dropped her sunglasses. She fumbled them for a second, mouthed an expletive as they fell to the ground, and gave a sincere, shrugging grin before snapping back into the choreography's formation. For a fleeting moment, she seemed human after all.
Beyoncé's Renaissance World Tour Rogers Center in Toronto
Photograph Beyoncé's "Renaissance World Tour" started its North American leg with a visually spectacular show in Toronto on Saturday night. Beyoncé is the rare major pop star who prizes live vocal prowess. (C1); Top, few seats provided a good view of Beyoncé's face, but the screen took care of that. Above, the full grandeur of the stage was not visible from many of the side seats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Choreography; Audiences; Dance; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances

People: Knowles, Beyonce

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/09/arts/music/beyonce-renaissance-world-tour-review.html

Title: Still Spectacular, and Seeking Perfection:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 10, 2023

column: Critic's Pick

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Performance Review

ProQuest document ID: 2834856315

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/still-spectacular-seeking-perfection/docview/2834856315/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On Her Renaissance Tour, the World Is Beyoncé’s Ball

Author: Zoladz, Lindsay

Publication info: Zoladz, Lindsay. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-her-renaissance-tour-world-is-beyoncé-s-ball/docview/2834813261/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TORONTO — It was a crowd that had come to dance, dressed for a rodeo in the distant future: sparkling cowboy hats, silvery fringe, outré sunglasses and any other sartorial detail that represented “Renaissance,” Beyoncé’s dazzling seventh album and the occasion for her first solo tour in seven years. But as the imperial pop superstar took the stage at the Rogers Center in Toronto on Saturday night for the first North American show of her Renaissance World Tour, she reminded the club-ready audience just who was in charge. Because if they were prepared to move, she was going to make them wait a little longer.
Setting the table for a 2-1/2-hour performance that was visually spectacular, vocally ambitious and sometimes tonally confused, Beyoncé, 41 — clad in a glimmering chain-mail mini dress — began the show with a nearly 30-minute stretch of ballads and deep cuts that harked back to her past: an acrobatically sung solo rendition of the 2001 Destiny’s Child track “Dangerously in Love,” a bit of “Flaws and All” from the deluxe edition of her 2007 album “B’Day,” and the sparse, soulful “1+1” from 2011, which she belted atop a mirrored piano.
It was both a display of her vocal agility and a curiously traditional way to start a show centered around an album as conceptually bold and forward-thinking as “Renaissance” — a sprawling, knowingly referential romp through the history of dance music, with an emphasis on the contributions of Black and queer innovators. Here, instead, was a stopover in Beyoncé’s Middle Ages.
As a live entertainer, though, she has earned a fresh start. The Renaissance World Tour shows are some of Beyoncé’s first appearances since her dazzling, commanding performance headlining the 2018 Coachella festival (later released as the concert film and live album “Homecoming”), which served as a kind of mic-drop capstone to her career thus far. It would be futile to repeat that, and difficult to top it. The loose, fluid “Renaissance,” still said to be the first part of a trilogy, represents a new chapter in Beyoncé’s recorded oeuvre. And once the show finally found its center and, however belatedly, welcomed the crowd to the Renaissance, it heralded her maturity as a performer, too.
The show’s look — as projected in diamond-sharp definition onto a panoramic screen — conjured Fritz Lang’s “Metropolis” by way of the 1990 drag ball documentary “Paris Is Burning.” After a lengthy video introduction, Beyoncé emerged from a chrome cocoon and vamped through a thrilling stretch of the first suite of “Renaissance” songs; during “Cozy,” most strikingly, a pair of hydraulic robotic arms centered her body in industrial picture frames, like a post-human Mona Lisa.
In May, when Beyoncé began the European leg of the Renaissance World Tour, rumors swirled that she may have been recovering from a foot injury, since her choreography was a bit more static and less stomp-heavy than usual. The Toronto show did nothing to dispel that chatter, but it also showed that it doesn’t matter much. Perhaps because of some constraints, Beyoncé has embraced new means of bodily expression. She brought the flavor of ball movements into the show and served face all night, curling her lip like a hungry predator, widening her eyes in mock surprise, scrunching her features in exaggerated disgust.
Few seats in the stadium provided a legible view of Beyoncé’s face, of course, though the screen took care of that. She played expertly to the cameras that followed her every choreographed move, aware of how she’d appear to the majority of the audience and — perhaps just as crucially — in FOMO-inducing social media videos. The stage itself was breathtaking, featuring an arced cutout section of the screen that made for playful visuals, but its full grandeur was not visible from many of the side seats, making the band and sometimes the dancers difficult to see.
The screen, though, was the point. Beyoncé’s two solo releases before “Renaissance” — her 2013 self-titled album and “Lemonade,” from 2016 — were billed as “visual albums,” featuring a fully realized music video for each track. Again toying with her fans’ anticipation, she has still not released any videos from “Renaissance,” giving the previously unseen graphics that filled her expansive backdrop an added impact, and making them feel more weighty than a convenient way to pass time between costume changes.
Many of the tour’s outfits struck a balance between Beyoncé’s signature styles — megawatt sparkles, high-cut bodysuits — and the futuristic bent of “Renaissance.” She played haute couture bee in custom Mugler by Casey Cadwallader and glimmered in a Gucci corset draped with crystals. But the night’s most memorable look — so instantly iconic that a few fans had already tried to replicate it, from photos of the European shows — was a flesh-tone catsuit by the Spanish label Loewe, embellished with a few suggestively placed, red-fingernailed hands.
Throughout the set, Beyoncé wove interpolations of her predecessors’ songs throughout her own, as if to place her music in a larger continuum. The grandiose “I Care” segued into a bit of “River Deep, Mountain High,” in honor of Tina Turner, who died in May. The cheery throwback “Love on Top” contained elements of the Jackson 5’s “Want You Back.” Most effective was the “Queens Remix” she performed of “Break My Soul,” which mashes up the “Renaissance” leadoff single with Madonna’s “Vogue,” paying homage to the mainstream pop star who brought queer ball culture to the masses before her. (The merch on sale at a Renaissance Tour pop-up shop in the days before the show included a hand-held fan emblazoned with the song title “Heated” for $40. It sold out.)
The show contained moments that sometimes felt conceptually cluttered and at odds with the “Renaissance” album’s sharp vision, like dorm-room-poster quotes from Albert Einstein and Jim Morrison that filled the screen during video montages. The middle stretch, arriving with a lively “Formation,” featured Beyoncé and her dancers clad in camo print, riding and occasionally writhing atop a prop military vehicle. There was a wordless, gestural power in the moment she and her entourage held their fists in the air, referencing a salute that had rankled some easily rankle-able viewers of the 2016 Super Bowl Halftime Show. But if Beyoncé was calling for any more specific forms of protest or political awareness — especially in a moment when drag culture and queer expression are being threatened at home and throughout the world — those went unarticulated.
Beyoncé’s endurance as a world-class performer remained the show’s raison d’être; she is the rare major pop star who prizes live vocal prowess. By the end of the long night — and especially during the striking closing number, the disco reverie “Summer Renaissance,” when she floated above the crowd like a deity on a glittering horse — she extended the microphone to lend out some of the high notes to her eager and adoring fans. “Until next time,” she said, keeping the stage banter relatively minimal and pat. “Drive home safe!”
Even when Beyoncé embraces styles and cultures known for their improvisational looseness, she still seems to be striving toward perfection — a pageant smile always threatens to break through the stank face. Commanding a stadium-sized audience, she was an introvert wearing an extrovert’s armor. That tension is part of both her boundless charm and her occasional limitations as a performer. And it makes moments of genuine spontaneity all the more prized.
Naturally, #RenaissanceWorldTour was trending on Twitter long after the show, but one of the clips that went viral was unplanned. During a rousing performance of her early hit “Diva,” Beyoncé accidentally dropped her sunglasses. She fumbled them for a second, mouthed an expletive as they fell to the ground, and gave a sincere, shrugging grin before snapping back into the choreography’s formation. For a fleeting moment, she seemed human after all.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Choreography; Audiences; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Costumes; Entertainment; Discrimination; Vogue (Song); North America; Lemonade (Album); Funerals And Memorials; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Rodeos; Arts; Vogue; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Dancing; Renaissance (Album); Records And Achievements; Knowles, Beyonce; Coachella Valley Music And Arts Festival; Cowboys And Cowgirls; Europe; Turner, Tina; Social Media; Threats And Threatening Messages; Cadwallader, Casey; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Music; Senses And Sensation; Face; Fashion And Apparel; Destiny's Child; Accidents And Safety; Twitter; Theater; Drag (Performance); Lang, Fritz; Homecoming (Movie); Formation (Song); Pop And Rock Music; Gucci; Hats And Caps; Fans (Persons); Break My Soul (Song); Age, Chronological

Title: On Her Renaissance Tour, the World Is Beyoncé’s Ball

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 9, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-09T22:39:37Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2834813261

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-her-renaissance-tour-world-is-beyoncé-s-ball/docview/2834813261/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Magic World's 50-Year Grudge: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Segal, David

Publication info: Segal, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/magic-worlds-50-year-grudge/docview/2834561817/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In 1973, Uri Geller claimed to bend metal with his mind on live television. Skeptics couldn't beat him. Now they've joined him.
In 1973, a young man named Uri Geller appeared on one of the BBC's most popular television shows, "The Dimbleby Talk-In," and announced that the laws of Newtonian physics did not apply to him. Or that, at least, was the implication. A handsome 26-year-old Israeli, dressed casually and flanked by a pair of academics, Mr. Geller performed a series of bewildering feats using nothing more, he said, than his mind.
He restarted a stopped watch. He duplicated a drawing that had been sealed in an envelope. Then he appeared to bend a fork simply by staring at it.
"It's cracking," Mr. Geller said quietly, speaking over a tight shot of his right hand, which was gently rubbing the fork between his fingers. "It's becoming like plastic."
A few seconds later, the top of the fork fell off and hit the ground. By the time the applause of the studio audience died down, Gellermania had begun.
Mr. Geller became not just a global celebrity -- a media darling who toured the world and filled auditoriums for dramatic demonstrations of cutlery abuse, with the humble spoon becoming his victim of choice -- but also the living embodiment of the hope that there was something more, something science couldn't explain. Because at the core of his performance was a claim of boggling audacity: that these were not tricks.
They were displays of raw psychic powers.
"I've never even seen a magic show," Mr. Geller, now a lean and tireless 76-year-old, said during a recent interview in Tel Aviv at the Uri Geller Museum, which he opened in 2021. "Except one: Siegfried and Roy in Las Vegas, because I missed a flight."
Charm and a seemingly bottomless supply of chutzpah were essential to his fame, and with fame came a one-man, multimillion-dollar enterprise, built on sales of tickets and books, and the reality TV show "The Next Uri Geller," which had versions in Israel, in the United States and around Europe.
It's a fortune he might have never earned, he said, without a group of highly agitated critics. Mr. Geller was long shadowed by a handful of professional magicians appalled that someone was fobbing off what they said were expertly finessed magic tricks as acts of telekinesis. Like well-matched heavyweights, they pummeled one another in the '70s and '80s in televised contests that elevated them all.
Mr. Geller ultimately emerged the victor in this war, and proof of his triumph is now on display in the museum: a coffee-table book titled "Bend It Like Geller," which was written by the Australian magician Ben Harris and published in May.
Timed to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the "Talk-In" appearance, the book celebrates Mr. Geller as a brilliant and highly original magical entertainer. Which represents a significant change of heart for Mr. Harris, who was once among Mr. Geller's most avid debunkers.
Today, Mr. Harris and Mr. Geller are friends who text or talk nearly every day. Mr. Harris looks back at his 1985 attack book, "Gellerism Revealed," as the work of an angry young man who had missed the point.
And the point is that Mr. Geller is an entertainer, one who'd figured out that challenging our relationship to the truth, and daring us to doubt our eyes, can inspire a kind of wonder, if performed convincingly enough. Mr. Geller's bent spoons are, in a sense, the analog precursors of digital deep fakes -- images, videos and sounds, reconfigured through software, so that anyone can be made to say or do anything.
Unlike a lot of self-help gurus, yogis and crackpot messiahs who rose to prominence in the early-1970s age of weird, Mr. Geller endured and his cultural impact proved both singular and lasting. Ikea produced a Geller stool, which had bent, wavy legs. Nintendo made a spoon-wielding Pokémon character, Kadabra, who could cause clocks to run backward. References to Mr. Geller, or mangled silverware, have appeared in songs by R.E.M., Toad the Wet Sprocket and Incubus, and made a memorable cameo in "The Matrix."
"It's not the spoon that bends," a bald tyke in a robe tells Neo, Keanu Reeves's character. "It is only yourself."
A mere handful of magicians have left anything close to this kind of imprint. If Mr. Geller can't actually bend metal with his brain -- and civility and fairness demands this "if" -- he is the author of a benign charade, which is a pretty good definition of a magic trick. Small wonder that the anti-Geller brigade has laid down its arms and led a rapprochement with the working professionals of magic. He is a reminder that people thrill at the sense that they are either watching a miracle or getting bamboozled. And now that fakery is routinely weaponized online, Mr. Geller's claims to superpowers seem almost innocent.
"I mean this in the most respectful way," said Andy Nyman, a magician and actor who a few years ago introduced a lecture by Mr. Geller at the Blackpool Magic Convention, an appearance that cemented this truce. "I think the world is aware that if he's fraudulent, there are bigger lies and bigger frauds out there that are far more damaging."
The best publicist in the world
A sloping 53-foot, 11-ton spoon made of rusting steel sits outside the Uri Geller Museum, in the ancient neighborhood of Old Jaffa. Throughout the day, tourists gather to gawk at the sculpture, and when Mr. Geller spots them, he often bounds down a flight of stairs to say hello and offer a quick performance.
"Where are you all from?" he asked a group of Austrians who gathered there one afternoon in May. As they answered, he quickly began to rub a spoon, which appeared to droop in his hands, that he autographed and tossed into the crowd, like a bouquet of flowers at a wedding.
"Thank you for coming to Israel!" he shouted as he walked off, to a round of applause.
The impromptu show lasted about a minute. He came, he bent, he left.
Mr. Geller is a vegan who doesn't drink or smoke, and he is always either moving or talking, usually both. During five hours of interviews over two days, he repeatedly said that he was shameless, which turns out to be one of his most winning qualities. He has a spoon tattooed on his right arm, which bends when he brings his hand to his shoulder, a hammy sight gag he'll perform for anyone.
He is less dogmatic about claims to otherworldly gifts now, preferring to call himself a "mystifier." Time and again, he emphasized his chops as a performer, a man who could mesmerize an audience, largely through ad-libbed interactions and charisma. When young magicians come and ask for advice, he suggests what amounts to a makeover.
"I tell them, 'Wear Armani T-shirts, buy Hermès after-shave, fix your teeth, smile a lot, be nice to people,"' he said, sitting in a chair in the middle of the museum. "This is the way to become famous and loved by your audience."
Mr. Geller never retired, though he doesn't travel much any more and spends nearly every day here, giving group tours -- no walk-ins, please -- to roughly 250 people each week. He spent $ 6 million buying and four years refurbishing the Ottoman-era soap factory, an investment he knows he will never recoup.
He and Hanna, his wife of 52 years, decided in 2015 to leave England, where the couple had raised their two now-adult children. The family had lived in a nine-bedroom mansion in a village outside London, with a Jacuzzi, tennis court, helicopter pad and glass meditation pyramid. His next-door neighbor was George Clooney; Jimmy Page lived down the street. The house is on the market for the equivalent of just under $ 10 million.
In Britain, Mr. Geller maintained the sort of profile that got him invited to appear on the TV show "I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!" as he found endless ways to insert himself into the news -- offering to stop Brexit telekinetically, taking credit for dislodging the tanker that was stuck in the Suez Canal.
"I'm the best publicist in the world, come on," he said, matter-of-factly. "You can promote Coca-Cola, you can promote a car. It doesn't matter, as long as you use my techniques, which are brilliant."
The museum tour he offers is a strange, slightly maddening way to spend an hour. Mr. Geller is a self-professed hoarder, and the place is essentially the contents of his attic, or a few storage bins, tastefully laid out as a permanent exhibition.
With a wireless microphone in hand, he seems intent on introducing visitors to every curio in the building. Here is a sculpture of a horse made of driftwood. That's a table designed by Versace. This is a piece of marble from the United Nations.
"Yoko Ono, amazing woman," he said, pausing by one of dozens of photographs. "She always wears Porsche glasses."
By the time you get to the 1976 Cadillac Fleetwood, covered with a few thousand bent spoons, you realize that the Uri Geller story isn't told at the Uri Geller Museum in a tour by Uri Geller. The experience ends with a somewhat perfunctory spoon bending ("Doesn't matter how I do it, whether it's real or not") and then a slightly off-key version of "My Way," in a recording sung by Mr. Geller himself, which plays over a montage of our hero with famous people -- including Salvador Dalí and Muhammad Ali.
"I have so many questions," said Gila Bublick, an American living in Israel, who was on the tour, sounding exhilarated and befuddled.
No questions were taken. Asked the next day why so little of his biography was in the tour, Mr. Geller said he thought his possessions were more interesting than his story.
Which is wrong.
Shouting 'Bend!' in unison
By the time Mr. Geller appeared on "The Dimbleby Talk-In," his career had already endured several near-death experiences. Raised in poverty as an only child, he said the first time he bent a spoon was while eating mushroom soup in his mother's kitchen around age 5. It didn't occur to him that this could be a profession until many years later, after he had left the army and was working as a courier and part-time model. At a photo shoot, he bent a photographer's key.
"The guy freaked out and said, 'I'm having a house party tonight, will you come and demonstrate your powers because nobody is going to believe me,"' Mr. Geller recalled. "I go and I'm stunned. I'm stunned by the reaction."
He soon was paid to perform at other parties, then small theaters, then larger ones. Each performance was unscripted and chaotic, its lack of polish only enhancing the sense that this was not a show.
Word spread about this hunky guy with the paranormal act. His first setback came in 1970, when a public relations man concocted and published a fabricated image of Mr. Geller with Sophia Loren, whom he'd visited in Rome. Ms. Loren's objections made front-page news in Israel, and Mr. Geller assumed he was finished. He asked his manager to cancel that evening's show in Haifa.
"I get to the theater that night, there are 400 people outside without tickets," he said. "It was sold out. That's when I realized controversy, for me, is a diamond on a silver platter."
There were soon more platters. In 1973, he was a guest on "The Tonight Show," and for 20 intensely awkward minutes Mr. Geller didn't even try to bend the objects laid out in front of him. (The vibe was wrong, he explained.) Astonishingly, viewers seemed to regard the failure as a sign of authenticity. Only someone at the mercy of the universe's unpredictable vibrations, went the theory, could have flopped like that.
His appearance on "The Dimbleby Talk-In," a few months later, was the performance of a daredevil who doesn't need a motorcycle to risk his life.
The two academics who sat on either side of Mr. Geller were, it turned out, both fans of the paranormal. (One, Lyall Watson, argued in a book that the emotions of plants could be registered on a lie detector.) The role of rational observer fell that evening to David Berglas, one of Britain's most famous magicians, who had been invited backstage by the show's host, David Dimbleby, to offer an instant assessment.
Now 96 years old, Mr. Berglas remembered the conversation in a recent phone interview.
"Can you do that?" Mr. Dimbleby asked him when the show was over.
"Of course," Mr. Berglas said. He then picked up a teaspoon and bent it after a brief rub.
"Yes," Mr. Dimbleby said, unimpressed, "but you're a magician."
'I basically call him a fraud'
One early Geller devotee was Mr. Harris, who watched the "Dimbleby" show from his grandparents' home in Sydney, Australia. He was 15 at the time and already a performing magician. After the broadcast, as instructed by Mr. Geller, he went to the kitchen, grabbed a utensil and willed it to bend. It did.
"I was totally sucked in," he said in a recent phone interview. "If it had been presented as a magic trick, I would have figured it out immediately. But this was something else, something standing on the edge of the unknown."
It was also something new. Psychic metal bending wasn't among the dozen or so genres of magic, like card tricks or levitation. And this guy didn't dress the part. He wore street clothes and lacked a patter. Briefly, Mr. Harris said, he imagined a better world, one in which the energy crisis was solved, in part, by mind power. Because if one guy could bend a fork, who knows what a few million people could achieve?
By 1976, Mr. Harris was becoming a doubter. That year, he attended a Geller show in Brisbane, along with about 4,000 others, and remembers an eccentric, riveting performance with a tray of spoons and keys provided by the audience and stretches of silence punctuated by inexplicable bends. After the show, Mr. Harris managed to get backstage, the first and only time he met Mr. Geller in person. He handed him a matchbox, wrapped in tinfoil and tape, containing a piece of metal.
"It was a challenge from a hyperactive young man," Mr. Harris said during a recent video call with Mr. Geller. "He started to unravel it, then said: 'No, no, no, you take it home, unravel it. See if it's bent and let me know."'
It was not bent. By then, Mr. Harris realized that the slight anomaly in his grandparents' spoon three years earlier had been there all along. Like many collections of well-worn utensils, they varied in curvature, something nobody ever had reason to notice until then.
Mr. Harris felt hoodwinked, which is why the book "Gellerism Revealed" is infused with the rage of disillusionment.
"I basically call him a fraud and charlatan," he said.
James Randi, a Canadian magician and escape artist, known professionally as the Amazing Randi, went much further. A relative unknown at the time, Mr. Randi, who eventually won a MacArthur Fellowship as a professional skeptic, was the loudest anti-Geller voice in the world.
"He is intending to enter the 'psychic healing' field soon, and when he starts into that racket he can kill people," he wrote in an edition of his book "The Truth About Uri Geller." He also called Mr. Geller a "dangerous and insidious figure," one he intended to stop "at all costs."
Those costs, it turned out, were high. Mr. Geller filed defamation lawsuits against Mr. Randi, including one for claiming that Mr. Geller was performing tricks once taught on the back of cereal boxes. The so-called cornflakes case ended with a dismissal, but over the years Mr. Randi burned through most of his $ 272,000 MacArthur grant covering personal legal expenses. He died three years ago and apparently loathed his nemesis to the end. He once asked that someone throw his cremated ashes into Mr. Geller's eyes, an obituary in The Economist stated.
The vitriol is a little hard to fathom. It's true that Mr. Geller had a lucrative side hustle in the 1980s working for mining companies who thought his putative psychic powers could help them determine where to dig. In a 1986 Financial Times story, he said that his standard fee was 1 million pounds per assignment, $ 3 million in inflation-adjusted terms, and that 11 companies had retained him.
Mr. Geller's track record as a prospector is not known, and he says he can't remember. But he never went into faith healing, nor did he charge enough to leave many with a case of buyer's remorse. He performed live shows and wrote books like "Use Your Psychic Powers to Have It All."
So watching the Geller haters now is like watching people run into nursery schools shouting that there is no Santa Claus. Consider Mr. Randi's appearance on Barbara Walters's talk show in 1974. He arrived soon after Mr. Geller had been there and entranced the host by bending her door key, apparently with his mind. Mr. Randi had now come to prove that there was nothing psychic about this feat.
"Here is my identical key," Ms. Walters told Mr. Randi, challenging him to equal Mr. Geller, and clearly hoping he would fail. "Touch it and make it bend."
A few moments later, the key is bent. Ms. Walters deflates. Suddenly, Mr. Geller seemed like a workaday huckster and the world seemed a little duller. She looked at the key that Mr. Randi had just bent and began theatrically boohooing, as if to say, "Thanks for nothing, you buzz killer."
The new sleight of hand
The science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke wrote that "any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic," and today magic and technology are merging. Start-ups in the field of artificial intelligence are the new masters of illusion; algorithms are the new sleight of hand.
"Geller's bent spoon demonstrations and deep fakes both create this conflict between what we think is possible and what we're seeing," said Alice Pailhès, an author of "The Psychology of Magic." "Both elicit strong emotional responses -- confusion, delight, distress, maybe even paranoia."
The stakes, of course, are different. Get fooled by a spoon bender and you're likely to end up with a smile on your face. Get fooled by a pernicious deep fake and you might end up believing that video posted last year of President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine appearing to surrender, or something else that is false and noxious. This time, it's going to take much more than Mr. Randi and Ben Harris to flag the frauds.
The upsides of digital fakes have, inevitably, intrigued more than a few magicians. Drummond Money-Coutts, the English conjurer who starred in the Netflix series "Death by Magic," said in an interview that he was looking into possibilities presented by Midjourney, the program used to produce an image of Pope Francis in a Balenciaga puffer jacket that went viral a few months ago. He still prefers nondigital methods, though, which he attributes in no small part to the influence of Mr. Geller.
Mr. Money-Coutts first met Mr. Geller in 2003. A student at the British prep school Eton who was a budding magician, he invited Mr. Geller to perform for 700 gobsmacked schoolboys. ("I was told to write a letter to the catering department to apologize because they basically had no spoons for weeks after he came," Mr. Money-Coutts recalled.) Mr. Geller had relocated to Britain by then, having spent 12 tumultuous years in the United States, most of them in New York City.
While there, he had gotten rich, but he wasn't equipped for money or fame on this scale, and he was rattled by the verbal assaults. He struggled with panic attacks and became anorexic and bulimic. He also shopped compulsively, once buying 100 silk shirts during a visit to a Brioni store in Milan, few of which he ended up wearing.
"It was decadence," he said. "I had 10 Gucci suitcases, leather Gucci suitcases. Do you know how much they cost?"
Mr. Geller gradually regained his mental equilibrium, though his taste for luxury proved hard to shake. When he moved to Britain in the mid-80s -- a relative suggested it would be a better place to raise a family -- he fell in love with a house in Sonning, a village 40 miles west of London, because it reminded him of Graceland and the White House. He more than doubled the square footage of the place, adding bedrooms, a cinema room and gold-plated bathroom fixtures. At some point, about six years ago, it all started to seem berserk.
"I just looked at the marble and the crystal chandeliers," he said of Sonning Court, as the house is known, "and I thought, 'I've got to get out of this."'
He wanted to radically downsize, he said, and today he lives in a modest one-bedroom apartment not far from where he grew up. He has settled where he began. On the off chance that he can't truly bend metal with his mind, he has done something less miraculous but nearly as implausible: He has earned a very comfortable living for 50 years performing what is essentially the most acclaimed party trick of all time.
Now and then, he speaks to magicians, giving tips and what are essentially motivational speeches. Be original, be persistent, stick with a persona, he tells listeners. At the Blackpool Magic Convention in February 2020, he gave all that advice to a packed room, and he performed a newish effect. He poured radish seeds into his hand and asked everyone to chant "Sprout!" over and over. As he swirled the seeds with a finger, a close-up camera showed a green shoot that seemed to materialize in the middle of his hand, as though it had been willed to blossom.
"Among magicians," asked a cheeky young man, during the question and answer part of the presentation, "was that a magic trick? Did you sneak a bit of cress in with your seeds?"
"Are you serious?" Mr. Geller all but shouted, more amused than galled. "Do you really think that I'm going to say at the age of 73 that this was a trick? Get a life!"
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Photograph Uri Geller, above in an undated photograph, who bent spoons in his act. Below, Geller sitting in his car last month in Tel Aviv at the Uri Geller Museum, which is essentially the contents of his attic, or a few storage bins, tastefully laid out as a permanent exhibition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVENING STANDARD, VIA GETTY IMAGES; AVISHAG SHAAR-YASHUV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4); Above, tourists outside the Uri Geller Museum, which Mr. Geller opened in Old Jaffa, a neighborhood in Tel Aviv, in 2021. Below, a view of his many promotional posters and other assorted memorabilia inside the museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AVISHAG SHAAR-YASHUV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Far left, the Australian magician Ben Harris. Near left, James Randi, a Canadian magician and escape artist who feuded with Mr. Geller for decades before his death in 2020. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATALIE GRONO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LARRY BUSACCA/GETTY IMAGES FOR THE 2014 TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL) (BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU4, BU5.

Subject: Television programs; Audiences; Celebrities; Books; Museums; Magic & magicians

Location: Israel

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/08/business/uri-geller-magic-deep-fakes.html

Title: The Magic World's 50-Year Grudge:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 9, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2834561817

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/magic-worlds-50-year-grudge/docview/2834561817/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The End of the Magic World’s 50-Year Grudge

Author: Segal, David

Publication info: Segal, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/end-magic-world-s-50-year-grudge/docview/2834486854/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TEL AVIV, Israel — In 1973, a young man named Uri Geller appeared on one of the BBC’s most popular television shows, “The Dimbleby Talk-In,” and announced that the laws of Newtonian physics did not apply to him. Or that, at least, was the implication. A handsome 26-year-old Israeli, dressed casually and flanked by a pair of academics, Geller performed a series of bewildering feats using nothing more, he said, than his mind.
He restarted a stopped watch. He duplicated a drawing that had been sealed in an envelope. Then he appeared to bend a fork simply by staring at it.
“It’s cracking,” Geller said quietly, speaking over a tight shot of his right hand, which was gently rubbing the fork between his fingers. “It’s becoming like plastic.”
A few seconds later, the top of the fork fell off and hit the ground. By the time the applause of the studio audience died down, Gellermania had begun.
Geller became not just a global celebrity — a media darling who toured the world and filled auditoriums for dramatic demonstrations of cutlery abuse, with the humble spoon becoming his victim of choice — but also the living embodiment of the hope that there was something more, something science couldn’t explain. Because at the core of his performance was a claim of boggling audacity: that these were not tricks.
They were displays of raw psychic powers.
“I’ve never even seen a magic show,” Geller, now a lean and tireless 76-year-old, said during a recent interview in Tel Aviv at the Uri Geller Museum, which he opened in 2021. “Except one: Siegfried and Roy in Las Vegas, because I missed a flight.”
Charm and a seemingly bottomless supply of chutzpah were essential to his fame, and with fame came a one-man, multimillion-dollar enterprise, built on sales of tickets and books, and the reality TV show “The Next Uri Geller,” which had versions in Israel, in the United States and around Europe.
It’s a fortune he might have never earned, he said, without a group of highly agitated critics. Geller was long shadowed by a handful of professional magicians appalled that someone was fobbing off what they said were expertly finessed magic tricks as acts of telekinesis. Like well-matched heavyweights, they pummeled one another in the ’70s and ’80s in televised contests that elevated them all.
Geller ultimately emerged the victor in this war, and proof of his triumph is now on display in the museum: a coffee-table book titled “Bend It Like Geller,” which was written by Australian magician Ben Harris and published in May.
Timed to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the “Talk-In” appearance, the book celebrates Geller as a brilliant and highly original magical entertainer. Which represents a significant change of heart for Harris, who was once among Geller’s most avid debunkers.
Today, Harris and Geller are friends who text or talk nearly every day. Harris looks back at his 1985 attack book, “Gellerism Revealed,” as the work of an angry young man who had missed the point.
And the point is that Geller is an entertainer, one who’d figured out that challenging our relationship to the truth, and daring us to doubt our eyes, can inspire a kind of wonder, if performed convincingly enough. Geller’s bent spoons are, in a sense, the analogue precursors of digital deepfakes — images, videos and sounds, reconfigured through software, so that anyone can be made to say or do anything.
Unlike a lot of self-help gurus, yogis and crackpot messiahs who rose to prominence in the early-1970s age of weird, Geller endured and his cultural impact proved both singular and lasting. Ikea produced a Geller stool, which had bent, wavy legs. Nintendo made a spoon-wielding Pokémon character, Kadabra, who could cause clocks to run backward. References to Geller, or mangled silverware, have appeared in songs by R.E.M., Toad the Wet Sprocket and Incubus, and made a memorable cameo in “The Matrix.”
“It’s not the spoon that bends,” a bald tyke in a robe tells Neo, Keanu Reeves’ character. “It is only yourself.”
A mere handful of magicians have left anything close to this kind of imprint. If Geller can’t actually bend metal with his brain — and civility and fairness demands this “if” — he is the author of a benign charade, which is a pretty good definition of a magic trick. Small wonder that the anti-Geller brigade has laid down its arms and led a rapprochement with the working professionals of magic. He is a reminder that people thrill at the sense that they are either watching a miracle or getting bamboozled. And now that fakery is routinely weaponized online, Geller’s claims to superpowers seem almost innocent.
“I mean this in the most respectful way,” said Andy Nyman, a magician and actor who a few years ago introduced a lecture by Geller at the Blackpool Magic Convention, an appearance that cemented this truce. “I think the world is aware that if he’s fraudulent, there are bigger lies and bigger frauds out there that are far more damaging.”
The Best Publicist in the World
A sloping 53-foot, 11-ton spoon made of rusting steel sits outside the Uri Geller Museum, in the ancient neighborhood of Old Jaffa. Throughout the day, tourists gather to gawk at the sculpture, and when Geller spots them, he often bounds down a flight of stairs to say hello and offer a quick performance.
“Where are you all from?” he asked a group of Austrians who gathered there one afternoon in May. As they answered, he quickly began to rub a spoon, which appeared to droop in his hands, that he autographed and tossed into the crowd, like a bouquet of flowers at a wedding.
“Thank you for coming to Israel!” he shouted as he walked off, to a round of applause.
The impromptu show lasted about a minute. He came, he bent, he left.
Geller is a vegan who doesn’t drink or smoke, and he is always either moving or talking, usually both. During five hours of interviews over two days, he repeatedly said that he was shameless, which turns out to be one of his most winning qualities. He has a spoon tattooed on his right arm, which bends when he brings his hand to his shoulder, a hammy sight gag he’ll perform for anyone.
He is less dogmatic about claims to otherworldly gifts now, preferring to call himself a “mystifier.” Time and again, he emphasized his chops as a performer, a man who could mesmerize an audience, largely through ad-libbed interactions and charisma. When young magicians come and ask for advice, he suggests what amounts to a makeover.
“I tell them, ‘Wear Armani T-shirts, buy Hermès after-shave, fix your teeth, smile a lot, be nice to people,’” he said, sitting in a chair in the middle of the museum. “This is the way to become famous and loved by your audience.”
Geller never retired, although he doesn’t travel much anymore and spends nearly every day here, giving group tours — no walk-ins, please — to roughly 250 people each week. He spent $6 million buying and four years refurbishing the Ottoman-era soap factory, an investment he knows he will never recoup.
He and Hanna, his wife of 52 years, decided in 2015 to leave England, where the couple had raised their two now-adult children. The family had lived in a nine-bedroom mansion in a village outside London, with a Jacuzzi, tennis court, helicopter pad and glass meditation pyramid. His next-door neighbor was George Clooney; Jimmy Page lived down the street. The house is on the market for the equivalent of just under $10 million.
In Britain, Geller maintained the sort of profile that got him invited to appear on the TV show “I’m a Celebrity … Get Me Out of Here!” as he found endless ways to insert himself into the news — offering to stop Brexit telekinetically, taking credit for dislodging the tanker that was stuck in the Suez Canal.
“I’m the best publicist in the world, come on,” he said, matter-of-factly. “You can promote Coca-Cola, you can promote a car. It doesn’t matter, as long as you use my techniques, which are brilliant.”
The museum tour he offers is a strange, slightly maddening way to spend an hour. Geller is a self-professed hoarder, and the place is essentially the contents of his attic, or a few storage bins, tastefully laid out as a permanent exhibition.
With a wireless microphone in hand, he seems intent on introducing visitors to every curio in the building. Here is a sculpture of a horse made of driftwood. That’s a table designed by Versace. This is a piece of marble from the United Nations.
“Yoko Ono, amazing woman,” he said, pausing by one of dozens of photographs. “She always wears Porsche glasses.”
By the time you get to the 1976 Cadillac Fleetwood, covered with a few thousand bent spoons, you realize that the Uri Geller story isn’t told at the Uri Geller Museum in a tour by Uri Geller. The experience ends with a somewhat perfunctory spoon bending (“Doesn’t matter how I do it, whether it’s real or not”) and then a slightly off-key version of “My Way,” in a recording sung by Geller, which plays over a montage of our hero with famous people — including Salvador Dalí and Muhammad Ali.
“I have so many questions,” said Gila Bublick, an American living in Israel, who was on the tour, sounding exhilarated and befuddled.
No questions were taken. Asked the next day why so little of his biography was in the tour, Geller said he thought his possessions were more interesting than his story.
Which is wrong.
Shouting ‘Bend!’ in Unison
By the time Geller appeared on “The Dimbleby Talk-In,” his career had already endured several near-death experiences. Raised in poverty as an only child, he said the first time he bent a spoon was while eating mushroom soup in his mother’s kitchen around age 5. It didn’t occur to him that this could be a profession until many years later, after he had left the army and was working as a courier and part-time model. At a photo shoot, he bent a photographer’s key.
“The guy freaked out and said, ‘I’m having a house party tonight. Will you come and demonstrate your powers because nobody is going to believe me,’” Geller recalled. “I go and I’m stunned. I’m stunned by the reaction.”
He soon was paid to perform at other parties, then small theaters, then larger ones. Each performance was unscripted and chaotic, its lack of polish only enhancing the sense that this was not a show.
Word spread about this hunky guy with the paranormal act. His first setback came in 1970, when a public relations man concocted and published a fabricated image of Geller with Sophia Loren, whom he’d visited in Rome. Loren’s objections made front-page news in Israel, and Geller assumed he was finished. He asked his manager to cancel that evening’s show in Haifa.
“I get to the theater that night; there are 400 people outside without tickets,” he said. “It was sold out. That’s when I realized controversy, for me, is a diamond on a silver platter.”
There were soon more platters. In 1973, he was a guest on “The Tonight Show,” and for 20 intensely awkward minutes, Geller didn’t even try to bend the objects laid out in front of him. (The vibe was wrong, he explained.) Astonishingly, viewers seemed to regard the failure as a sign of authenticity. Only someone at the mercy of the universe’s unpredictable vibrations, went the theory, could have flopped like that.
His appearance on “The Dimbleby Talk-In,” a few months later, was the performance of a daredevil who doesn’t need a motorcycle to risk his life.
The two academics who sat on either side of Geller were, it turned out, both fans of the paranormal. (One, Lyall Watson, argued in a book that the emotions of plants could be registered on a lie detector.) The role of rational observer fell that evening to David Berglas, one of Britain’s most famous magicians, who had been invited backstage by the show’s host, David Dimbleby, to offer an instant assessment.
Now 96 years old, Berglas remembered the conversation in a recent phone interview.
“Can you do that?” Dimbleby asked him when the show was over.
“Of course,” Berglas said. He then picked up a teaspoon and bent it after a brief rub.
“Yes,” Dimbleby said, unimpressed, “but you’re a magician.”
‘I Basically Call Him a Fraud’
One early Geller devotee was Harris, who watched the “Dimbleby” show from his grandparents’ home in Sydney. He was 15 at the time and already a performing magician. After the broadcast, as instructed by Geller, he went to the kitchen, grabbed a utensil and willed it to bend. It did.
“I was totally sucked in,” he said in a recent phone interview. “If it had been presented as a magic trick, I would have figured it out immediately. But this was something else, something standing on the edge of the unknown.”
It was also something new. Psychic metal bending wasn’t among the dozen or so genres of magic, like card tricks or levitation. And this guy didn’t dress the part. He wore street clothes and lacked a patter. Briefly, Harris said, he imagined a better world, one in which the energy crisis was solved, in part, by mind power. Because if one guy could bend a fork, who knows what a few million people could achieve?
By 1976, Harris was becoming a doubter. That year, he attended a Geller show in Brisbane, Australia, along with about 4,000 others, and remembers an eccentric, riveting performance with a tray of spoons and keys provided by the audience and stretches of silence punctuated by inexplicable bends. After the show, Harris managed to get backstage, the first and only time he met Geller in person. He handed him a matchbox, wrapped in tinfoil and tape, containing a piece of metal.
“It was a challenge from a hyperactive young man,” Harris said during a recent video call with Geller. “He started to unravel it, then said: ‘No, no, no, you take it home, unravel it. See if it’s bent and let me know.’”
It was not bent. By then, Harris realized that the slight anomaly in his grandparents’ spoon three years earlier had been there all along. Like many collections of well-worn utensils, they varied in curvature, something nobody ever had reason to notice until then.
Harris felt hoodwinked, which is why the book “Gellerism Revealed” is infused with the rage of disillusionment.
“I basically call him a fraud and charlatan,” he said.
James Randi, a Canadian magician and escape artist, known professionally as the Amazing Randi, went much further. A relative unknown at the time, Randi, who eventually won a MacArthur Fellowship as a professional skeptic, was the loudest anti-Geller voice in the world.
“He is intending to enter the ‘psychic healing’ field soon, and when he starts into that racket he can kill people,” he wrote in an edition of his book “The Truth About Uri Geller.” He also called Geller a “dangerous and insidious figure,” one he intended to stop “at all costs.”
Those costs, it turned out, were high. Geller filed defamation lawsuits against Randi, including one for claiming that Geller was performing tricks once taught on the back of cereal boxes. The so-called cornflakes case ended with a dismissal, but over the years Randi burned through most of his $272,000 MacArthur grant covering personal legal expenses. He died three years ago and apparently loathed his nemesis to the end. He once asked that someone throw his cremated ashes into Geller’s eyes, an obituary in The Economist stated.
The vitriol is a little hard to fathom. It’s true that Geller had a lucrative side hustle in the 1980s working for mining companies that thought his putative psychic powers could help them determine where to dig. In a 1986 Financial Times story, he said that his standard fee was 1 million pounds per assignment, $3 million in inflation-adjusted terms, and that 11 companies had retained him.
Geller’s track record as a prospector is not known, and he says he can’t remember. But he never went into faith healing, nor did he charge enough to leave many with a case of buyer’s remorse. He performed live shows and wrote books like “Use Your Psychic Powers to Have It All.”
So watching the Geller haters now is like watching people run into nursery schools shouting that there is no Santa Claus. Consider Randi’s appearance on Barbara Walters’ talk show in 1974. He arrived soon after Geller had been there and entranced the host by bending her door key, apparently with his mind. Randi had now come to prove that there was nothing psychic about this feat.
“Here is my identical key,” Walters told Randi, challenging him to equal Geller, and clearly hoping he would fail. “Touch it and make it bend.”
A few moments later, the key is bent. Walters deflates. Suddenly, Geller seemed like a workaday huckster and the world seemed a little duller. She looked at the key that Randi had just bent and began theatrically boohooing, as if to say, “Thanks for nothing, you buzz killer.”
The New Sleight of Hand
Science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke wrote that “any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic,” and today magic and technology are merging. Startups in the field of artificial intelligence are the new masters of illusion; algorithms are the new sleight of hand.
“Geller’s bent spoon demonstrations and deepfakes both create this conflict between what we think is possible and what we’re seeing,” said Alice Pailhès, an author of “The Psychology of Magic.” “Both elicit strong emotional responses — confusion, delight, distress, maybe even paranoia.”
The stakes, of course, are different. Get fooled by a spoon bender and you’re likely to end up with a smile on your face. Get fooled by a pernicious deepfake and you might end up believing that video posted last year of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine appearing to surrender, or something else that is false and noxious. This time, it’s going to take much more than Randi and Harris to flag the frauds.
The upsides of digital fakes have, inevitably, intrigued more than a few magicians. Drummond Money-Coutts, the English conjurer who starred in the Netflix series “Death by Magic,” said in an interview that he was looking into possibilities presented by Midjourney, the program used to produce an image of Pope Francis in a Balenciaga puffer jacket that went viral a few months ago. He still prefers nondigital methods, though, which he attributes in no small part to the influence of Geller.
Money-Coutts first met Geller in 2003. A student at British prep school Eton who was a budding magician, he invited Geller to perform for 700 gobsmacked schoolboys. (“I was told to write a letter to the catering department to apologize because they basically had no spoons for weeks after he came,” Money-Coutts recalled.) Geller had relocated to Britain by then, having spent 12 tumultuous years in the United States, most of them in New York City.
While there, he had gotten rich, but he wasn’t equipped for money or fame on this scale, and he was rattled by the verbal assaults. He struggled with panic attacks and became anorexic and bulimic. He also shopped compulsively, once buying 100 silk shirts during a visit to a Brioni store in Milan, few of which he ended up wearing.
“It was decadence,” he said. “I had 10 Gucci suitcases, leather Gucci suitcases. Do you know how much they cost?”
Geller gradually regained his mental equilibrium, although his taste for luxury proved hard to shake. When he moved to Britain in the mid-’80s — a relative suggested it would be a better place to raise a family — he fell in love with a house in Sonning, a village 40 miles west of London, because it reminded him of Graceland and the White House. He more than doubled the square footage of the place, adding bedrooms, a cinema room and gold-plated bathroom fixtures. At some point, about six years ago, it all started to seem berserk.
“I just looked at the marble and the crystal chandeliers,” he said of Sonning Court, as the house is known, “and I thought, ‘I’ve got to get out of this.’”
He wanted to radically downsize, he said, and today he lives in a modest one-bedroom apartment not far from where he grew up. He has settled where he began. On the off chance that he can’t truly bend metal with his mind, he has done something less miraculous but nearly as implausible: He has earned a very comfortable living for 50 years performing what is essentially the most acclaimed party trick of all time.
Now and then, he speaks to magicians, giving tips and what are essentially motivational speeches. Be original, be persistent, stick with a persona, he tells listeners. At the Blackpool Magic Convention in February 2020, he gave all that advice to a packed room, and he performed a newish effect. He poured radish seeds into his hand and asked everyone to chant “Sprout!” over and over. As he swirled the seeds with a finger, a close-up camera showed a green shoot that seemed to materialize in the middle of his hand, as if it had been willed to blossom.
“Among magicians,” asked a cheeky young man, during the question-and-answer part of the presentation, “was that a magic trick? Did you sneak a bit of cress in with your seeds?”
“Are you serious ?” Geller all but shouted, more amused than galled. “Do you really think that I’m going to say at the age of 73 that this was a trick? Get a life!”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Television programs; Audiences; Celebrities; Books; Museums; Magic & magicians

Location: Israel; Tel Aviv Israel

Identifier / keyword: Tableware; United States; Ono, Yoko; Jaffa (Israel); Nyman, Andy; Balenciaga (Fashion Label); Netflix Inc; Celebrities; Parties (Social); Great Britain; New York City; Coca Cola Company; Ukraine; London (England); Reality Television; Interior Design And Furnishings; Geller, Uri; Canada; Israel; Haifa (Israel); Philanthropy; Ikea; Armani, Giorgio, Spa; Segal, David; Psychics And Fortune Tellers; Automobiles; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Brisbane (Australia); Sydney (Australia); United Nations; Records And Achievements; Libel And Slander; Economist, The; Dali, Salvador; Europe; Museums; Nintendo Co Ltd; England; Jewels And Jewelry; Art; Magic And Magicians; Loren, Sophia; Roman Catholic Church; Rome (Italy); Tel Aviv (Israel); Ali, Muhammad; Senses And Sensation; Milan (Italy); Computers And The Internet; Weight; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Siegfried And Roy; Suez Canal; Great Britain Withdrawal From Eu (Brexit); Versace, Gianni, Spa; Private And Sectarian Schools; Clarke, Arthur C; Artificial Intelligence; Utensils And Cutlery; Collectors And Collections; Pop And Rock Music; Gucci; Walters, Barbara; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Randi, James; Clooney, George; Porsche Ag; Rem (Music Group); Television; Financial Times; Mines And Mining; Australia; British Broadcasting Corp; Las Vegas (Nev); Austria; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Brioni (Fashion Label); Business; Airlines And Airplanes; Soft Drinks; Hermes International Sa; Reeves, Keanu; Watson, Lyall; Luxury Goods And Services; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological

Title: The End of the Magic World’s 50-Year Grudge

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-08T15:27:34Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2834486854

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/end-magic-world-s-50-year-grudge/docview/2834486854/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On the Court, Serving Up a New Fashion Spin: [Style Desk]

Author: Testa, Jessica

Publication info: Testa, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-court-serving-up-new-fashion-spin/docview/2833500384/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jannik Sinner swapped his athletic bag for a large logo-covered duffel by Gucci. It may be a new frontier for luxury brands in tennis.
It was the kind of bag you may spot in the overhead bin of an airplane's first-class cabin. Except it was being carried onto Centre Court at Wimbledon by a 6-foot-2-inch redhead.
Jannik Sinner, 21, the Italian tennis player ranked eighth in the world, broke from tradition Monday when he emerged on court with a custom-made duffel bag wrapped in Gucci's "GG" monogram, its red and green straps slung over a shoulder.
To the average sports fan, this may not seem so extraordinary. In basketball, tunnel walks have become mini fashion shows as players make their way to their locker rooms drenched in designer clothing and accessories.
But that kind of sartorial energy has not yet come to tennis -- especially not to Wimbledon, the most traditional of the four Grand Slam tournaments, with its strict all-white uniform requirements. (This is the first year that women playing at Wimbledon are allowed to wear nonwhite underwear, to ease anxiety around periods.)
Players at Grand Slams abide by a rule book that regulates what they can wear and carry onto courts. There are limits on the size, placement and number of logos on their sleeves, collars, headbands, socks and, yes, equipment bags.
Many players carry both a racket bag and a personal duffel bag onto court, but typically they're obvious athletic bags. A few hours before Mr. Sinner's match began, for example, Novak Djokovic (ranked second in the world) walked onto Centre Court with two white bags made by Head, his racket sponsor.
Mr. Sinner's appearance with his duffel was the first time, Gucci said, that a tennis player has been cleared to carry a luxury logo-ed bag on court. Even players beloved by the fashion world, like Roger Federer and Serena Williams, who had a close relationship with Gucci, had not done so before their retirements. For Ms. Williams's final match last year, she carried a Wilson racket bag and duffel stamped with her own Nike monogram logo.
Mr. Sinner, whose initials also appear on his Gucci bag, was named an ambassador for the brand last July. Gucci said it worked with Mr. Sinner's team for approvals from the International Tennis Federation, the Association of Tennis Professionals and the Grand Slams, including Wimbledon, to ensure that the bag met the necessary requirements. He carried his rackets in a standard white Head bag.
Gucci isn't the only luxury house looking to align itself with young tennis stars. Naomi Osaka and Carlos Alcaraz have been ambassadors for Louis Vuitton. Mr. Alcaraz, 20, who is ranked No. 1 in the world, was announced as a Vuitton ambassador on June 28, just five days before Wimbledon began. The same day, Gucci held a swanky private dinner for Mr. Sinner in London to celebrate his third year at Wimbledon.
Mr. Sinner and Mr. Alcaraz are budding rivals among the next generation of men's tennis stars. At last year's U.S. Open, they played a quarterfinals match that lasted more than five hours, ending before 3 a.m. -- the latest a U.S. Open match had ever finished.
Unlike Mr. Alcaraz, Mr. Sinner does not have a Grand Slam title, although tennis prognosticators are hopeful. The Italian does have one thing the Spaniard does not: a fervent group of fans, called the Carota Boys, who dress in carrot costumes and travel to tournaments to support him.
Mr. Sinner does not appear to view the bag, which was made in a canvas material with a leather trim, as a serious break from tradition. In an email, he wrote that he was very fond of traditions, including Wimbledon's dress code. For the bag's design, he and Gucci wanted "something that could have been drawn from Gucci's archives."
The straps are removable and the inside contains hidden water bottle pockets. He said he'll use it to carry a change of clothes, nutritional supplements, sunscreen and anything else he may need for a few hours on court.
Asked if he made any specific requests to Gucci, Mr. Sinner wrote: "I wanted the bag to be comfortable to carry and have enough to keep all my stuff inside. My priority was functionality, I guess."
Photograph Jannik Sinner at Wimbledon with a custom-made Gucci bag. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZAC GOODWIN/PA IMAGES, VIA GETTY IMAGES; GREG WILLIAMS FOR GUCCI) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Luggage; Tennis; Logos; Diplomatic & consular services

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/03/style/wimbledon-gucci-tennis.html

Title: On the Court, Serving Up a New Fashion Spin:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 6, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833500384

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-court-serving-up-new-fashion-spin/docview/2833500384/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Glaring Blind Spot in College Admissions: Economic Diversity: [National Desk]

Author: Leonhardt, David

Publication info: Leonhardt, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/glaring-blind-spot-college-admissions-economic/docview/2832939608/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: By David Leonhardt
Goodmorning. We're covering affirmative action, story B and story C.
Colleges' blind spot
The University of Virginia, one of the country's top public universities, enrolls a strikingly affluent group of students: Fewer than 15 percent of recent undergraduates at UVAhave come from families with incomes low enough to qualify for Pell Grants, the largest federal financial aid program.
The same is true at some other public universities, including Auburn, Georgia Tech and William & Mary. It is also true at a larger group of elite private colleges, including Bates, Brown, Georgetown, Oberlin, Tulane and Wake Forest. The skew is so extreme at some colleges that more undergraduates come from the top 1 percent of the income distribution than from the entire bottom 60 percent, one academic study found.
It's worth remembering that this pattern has existed despite affirmative action. Nearly every college with an affluent enrollment has historically used race-based admissions policies. Those policies often succeeded at producing racially diversity without producing as much economic diversity.
After the Supreme Court decision last week banning race-based affirmative action, much of the commentary has focused on how admissions officers might use economic data, like household income or wealth, to ensure continued racial diversity. And whether they figure out how to do so is important (as I've previously covered).
But racial diversity is not the only form of diversity that matters. Economic diversity matters for its own sake: The dearth of lower-income students at many elite colleges is a sign that educational opportunity has been constrained for Americans of all races. To put it another way, economic factors like household wealth are not valuable merely because they are a potential proxy for race; they are also a telling measure of disadvantage in their own right.
As colleges revamp their admissions policies to respond to the court's decision, there will be two different questions worth asking: Can the new system do as well as the old one at enrolling Black, Hispanic and Native students? And can it do better at enrolling lower-income students? So far, the public discussion has tended to ignore that second question.
The F&M model
Creating more economically diverse selective campuses is both difficult and possible.
It is difficult because nearly every aspect of the admissions system favors affluent applicants. They attend better high schools. They receive help on their essays from their highly educated parents. They know how to work the system by choosing character-building extracurricular activities and taking standardized tests multiple times. In many cases -- if the applicants are athletes or the children of alumni, donors or faculty members -- they benefit from their own version of affirmative action.
Nonetheless, some colleges have recently shown that it is possible to enroll and graduate more middle- and low-income students.
These newly diverse colleges include several with multibillion-dollar endowments (like Amherst, Harvard, Princeton, Swarthmore and Yale). The list also includes colleges with fewer resources -- like Franklin & Marshall, Macalaster, Vassar and Wooster -- which have had to make tough choices to find the money to increase their scholarship budgets. Crucially, these campuses have not sacrificed one form of diversity for another: They also tend to be racially diverse.
Admissions officers at such colleges have recognized that talented students from humble backgrounds usually don't look as polished. Their essays may be less impressive -- perhaps because they received less editing from adults. The student's summer activity may have been a job in her own impoverished neighborhood -- rather than a social justice trip to an impoverished area overseas.
Many of these students have tremendous promise. By admitting them, an elite college can change the trajectories of entire families. A college dominated by affluent students, by contrast, is failing to serve as the engine of opportunity that it could be.
I'm not suggesting that economic diversity is an adequate replacement for racial diversity. The United States has a specific history of racial discrimination, especially against Black and Native Americans, that continues to restrict opportunities for today's teenagers. The Supreme Court ruling that banned race-based affirmative action at times seemed to wish away this history, imagining that the country had moved beyond racism. In truth, students of color, at every income level, face challenges that white students do not.
But many of the people who run elite colleges have had their own blind spot in recent decades. They have often excluded class from their definition of diversity. They enrolled students of every race and religion, from every continent and U.S. region, without worrying much about the economic privilege that many of those students shared.
Now that colleges are legally required to change their approach, they have a new opportunity to broaden their definition of diversity.
Related
■ The Supreme Court's decisions on affirmative action and student debt have handed Democrats an opportunity to talk about class and improve their elitist image. "The question is, will the party pivot?" asks The Times's Jonathan Weisman.
■ "Affirmative action, in my view, was doomed," Jay Caspian Kang writes in The New Yorker, focusing on how the system treated Asian Americans, "because it had been stripped of its moral force."
■ In Times Opinion, David French also examines anti-Asian discrimination.
THE LATEST NEWS
War in Ukraine
■ Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping and Narendra Modi met a virtual summit. Instead of discussing collaboration, each leader was focused on his own agendas.
■ Russian officials said they shot down several drones near Moscow.
■ In Washington D.C., protesters are using projectors to beam a giant Ukrainian flag onto the Russian embassy.
International
■ France's justice system is trying to process about 3,400 arrests after five nights of protests over a teenager's killing.
■ Bullet
■ Bullet
Other Big Stories
■ TK
■ TK
Opinions
As Germany looks to build alliances with non-Western countries, it must face the lingering resentment over colonialism, Anna Sauerbrey writes.
Utility companies are lobbying to slow down the clean energy transition. They should be prevented from using customers' money to do so, David Pomerantz argues.
Here are columns by tk on tk and Farhad Manjoo on gas-powered cars.
MORNING READS
"Asteroid City": These are the six best films of 2023 so far.
Road trip: Prue Leith, the "Great British Baking Show" judge, drives from California to Florida.
Going to Europe? You're not alone. People are arriving in record numbers.
Lives Lived: Susan Love was a surgeon and one of the world's most visible public faces in the war on breast cancer. She died at 75.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
ARTS AND IDEAS
Saving music history: In the mid-2000s, before Spotify dominated the online music industry, mixtape websites like DatPiff flourished, giving musicians a simple way to release their songs for free. Much of their content fell into a legal gray area; signed artists would publish songs without their label's approval, and tracks often used unlicensed samples. While those loose rules once helped spur hip-hop creativity, Brian Josephs writes in The Times, they are now complicating the effort to preserve the sites' archives.
More on culture
■ The hot new Italian player at Wimbledon? Gucci.
■ The music world is celebrating the English composer William Byrd on the 400th anniversary of his death.
THE MORNING RECOMMENDS ...
Make a chopped salad with chickpea, feta and avocado.
Store your bike in a smart way.
Use the best bread knife.
Read "The Exhibitionist," a novel about a woman married to an monster in the art world.
GAMES
Here are today's Spelling Bee and the Bee Buddy, which helps you find remaining words. Yesterday's pangrams were diatomic and idiomatic.
And here are today's Mini Crossword, Wordle and Sudoku.
______
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow. -- David
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox . Reach our team at themorning@nytimes.com .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A11.

ERIC Subject: Educational Opportunities; Economic Factors; Affirmative Action; Standardized Tests; College Admission; Music Education; Public Colleges; Race; Admissions Officers; Colonialism; Family Income; Admission Criteria; Extracurricular Activities; Admission (School); Undergraduate Students; Student Financial Aid; White Students; Racial Discrimination; Universities

Subject: College admissions; Racial discrimination; College campuses; Low inc ome groups; Extracurricular activities; College students; Supreme Court decisions; Income distribution; Admissions policies; Asian Americans; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Race; Affirmative action

Business indexing term: Subject: Income distribution

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/04/pageoneplus/04rex1nl.html

Title: The Glaring Blind Spot in College Admissions: Economic Diversity:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 5, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2832939608

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/glaring-blind-spot-college-admissions-economic/docview/2832939608/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 5, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fitting a Bathing Suit Into Your Wedding Day: [Society Desk]

Author: Strauss, Alix

Publication info: Strauss, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fitting-bathing-suit-into-your-wedding-day/docview/2831912792/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Beaded and bedazzled, fancy and frilly, lacy and Lycra-fitted -- bridal bikinis are here. Brides are embracing swimwear for after parties, honeymoons and even ceremonies.
Marigo Mihalos Sfaelos brought many outfits to her four-day, event-filled wedding in Karpathos, Greece, last year. There was the silk citrine Greek goddess-style dress, a floral appliqué Estee Couture bridal gown, and a disco ball-inspired floor-length dress for the after party. But the showstopper was worn at the post-wedding beach party: a gladiator-like metal and silver bikini with rhinestones, from the designer Karen Sabag's Rêver collection, along with a matching overlay skirt.
"I wanted it to be a bridal look that stood out, and the bride should stand out," said Mrs. Mihalos Sfaelos, 35, a senior director of talent relations at SiriusXM radio in New York. She married Spiro Sfaelos, a 37-year-old restaurant owner, atop a cliff on Aug. 27, 2022, on the Greek island where she grew up. "You can't just wear a white bathing suit."
Other brides seem to feel the same way, especially with destination weddings, and designers and stylists are paying close attention. Today's bridal swimwear are not just fashion-forward white bathing suits -- they are beaded and bedazzled, fancy and frilly, lacy and Lycra-fitted, and custom made.
Mrs. Mihalos Sfaelos said her bathing suit felt bridal.
"Like a bridal dress, it was a full statement," said Mrs. Mihalos Sfaelos, who lives in Clifton, N.J. "It was a one-of-a-kind, custom-made item tailored to my body."
Like a wedding gown, Ms. Sabag, who also made Mrs. Mihalos Sfaelos's second wedding dress, took measurements and did two fittings.
"As much attention to the wedding dress was paid to this bathing suit," Mrs. Mihalos Sfaelos added.
Samantha Brown, a professional stylist in New York, sees bridal swimwear as a trend that's likely here to stay. "We used to see brides wearing gigantic gowns on the beach, which never made any sense," she said. "They were heavy, dragging through the sand and out of place for the venue. Now, people are trying to find unique touch points that make their wedding memorable and photographically beautiful."
Designers like Marysia, Anemos and Giambattista Valli have sporadically offered swimsuit options in their collections, though they have not developed a fully dedicated bridal line.
Demi Raquel Thomas, a designer based in Marina del Ray, Calif., debuted her ready-to-wear bridal swimwear company, La Chenille Bridal Bikini, in April 2021 with a pop-up launch event in New York. The company concentrates on bachelorette parties, honeymoons and wedding wear.
"These are one-of-a-kind pieces that make brides look and feel as special as if they were wearing a traditional wedding gown," said Ms. Thomas, who plans to open a showroom in Manhattan next year. Her bridal line is currently only available on her website.
Ms. Thomas says she has seen a 25 to 30 percent increase in sales from 2021 to 2022.
Still, an overall lack of offerings has made finding bridal swimwear challenging. Elizabeth Paladeau, 31, the senior manager of special projects for Gucci who lives in Manhattan, said she had trouble finding a special swimsuit for her three-day Amalfi Coast Beach wedding last September. She said she "didn't find a trove of bridal swimwear options, because they weren't as trendy as they are now," she said. (She ended up wearing a Chanel white one-piece with black piping and a matching crystal netted skirt.)
In the past, Ms. Thomas explained, brides typically wanted just one or two outfits. "Gen Zs and millennials want five or six, for the ceremony, reception, first dance, cutting of the cake, after party and beach themed activities," she said.
Before plunging into the bridal swimwear market, Ms. Thomas spent a year immersed in research. She hired an online marketing company and acquired data and statistics about the fashion and wedding industry, among other things.
"This is a niche category," she said, "I learned 60 percent of couples were having or wanted beach or a pool weddings. I realized no one was offering a high-end, luxury look that was also comfortable to wear."
Ms. Thomas started out with about 20 pieces, including swimsuits, cover-ups and jackets, custom made with beaded and sequined fabric like organza and toile. Then, they are adorned by hand-sewn appliqués, crystals, taffeta, and trim. Depending on style and craftsmanship, tops can cost $ 600 to $ 800, bottoms from $ 550 to $ 800, and one pieces around $ 1,300 to $ 2,000. Full-length cover-ups can start at $ 1,800 and go as high as $ 7,000.
"We have a rose coat with 200 organza and toile roses," she said of a jacket that costs $ 6,000. "I didn't want to be a middle market brand." She said she is also looking into eventually offering plus-size pieces.
Ms. Sabag, who lives in Roslyn, N.Y., started Karen Sabag Bridal, in 2008, offering handcrafted, atelier dresses. Her designs range in price from $ 10,000 to $ 30,000 and beyond. Over the last several years, "more brides were asking for swimsuits," she said.
In November 2020, she created Rêver (which means dream in French), specializing in custom, hand-embellished swimsuits and lingerie. This summer, she will open her first Rêver flagship store in Gravesend, Brooklyn, offering 18 swimsuit styles and 40 interchangeable items, including cover tops, overlays and lingerie. Like Ms. Thomas, Ms. Sabag uses imported Chantilly and beaded lace, delicate silks, pearls, stones, embroidery and corsetry.
"I'm a detailed designer," she said. "These are high-end couture pieces that can be worn in the water, with a cover-up, and look like bridal dresses." Her swimsuits cost $ 450 to $ 1,200 while cover-ups range from $ 800 to $ 2,500.
Ms. Sabag says she sees more than 200 brides in a year, and about half of them buy swimsuits.
"That's a huge number," she said, adding that women who are not planning weddings "are also buying the line, and wearing our tops and cover-ups with jeans and pants. "There's a demand for this. It's become a recognized entity to bridal wardrobes."
Photograph Above center, a swimsuit from the Rêver collection of the designer Karen Sabag; above left and right, swimwear from the designer Demi Raquel Thomas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER GRAYLOCK; VERONICA SAMS; KIM TRAN) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Clothing; Swimwear; Weddings; Lingerie; Designers

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/22/style/bridal-swimsuits.html

Title: Fitting a Bathing Suit Into Your Wedding Day:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 2, 2023

column: Field Notes

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831912792

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fitting-bathing-suit-into-your-wedding-day/docview/2831912792/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bold Uniforms for the Game Within a Game: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bold-uniforms-game-within/docview/2829133918/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tailoring, bling and Louis Vuitton, oh my.
The fact that the N.B.A. draft occurred smack in the middle of the Paris men's wear shows was something of a cosmically appropriate coincidence.
After all, the draft has increasingly become one of our most watched runways, the heart of the convergence between fashion and sport that has spawned the tunnel walk and social media accounts that chronicle players' wardrobes -- and leads to front row seats at shows like Louis Vuitton, recently attended by LeBron James, and Rick Owens, where Kyle Kuzma showed up. And it is only getting more important.
ESPN has added a one-hour "N.B.A. Draft Red Carpet Special" just as E! does for the Oscars and the Met Gala, including a 360 degree cam kind of like the E! Glambot, the better to capture the looks in the round, as well as a reporter asking the attendees, "What are you wearing?"
Yes, the question isn't just for women any more.
Perhaps because most of the athletes aren't used to answering, they didn't respond with a "what" -- they didn't name their brand -- but a "why." Why they chose the look they chose. Which in turn reflects why this all matters.
As Mitchell Jackson, the author of the forthcoming "Fly: The Big Book of Basketball Fashion," a coffee-table book that elevates the subject to the same decorative status as a Dior or Gucci monograph, said: "N.B.A. draft fashion is its own subject now, not an afterthought but part of the big show. It was always something the players cared about, but with more media coverage of the draft, with the advent of social media and the tunnel, it's an important part, dare I say essential part, of player's star power."
It's the players' first chance to create the brand of them and offer it up for public consumption. As a result, everything is tailored. Not just literally, but conceptually.
Starting with Victor Wembanyama, the No. 1 overall pick and widely touted "generational talent" from France, who wore a forest green suit from Louis Vuitton with a kimono-like jacket that wrapped at the waist and a matching forest green shirt, a large stone dangling from his neck. Vuitton is, of course, the world's dominant luxury brand, one synonymous with French savoir-faire and one that recently hired a Black American -- Pharrell Williams -- as its men's wear designer, all values (inclusivity, cross-border diplomacy, success) that line up with what Mr. Wembanyama promises to represent.
As for the color, he said he liked it because it made him think of outer space (he's reaching for the stars), while the stone around his neck, less blingy than some of the other ice sported by his soon-to-be competitors, was an element said to help achieve goals.
His only competition in the high-fashion stakes came from Kobe Bufkin (picked 15th, by the Atlanta Hawks), in a cream tweed double-breasted suit sans shirt, a choice that revealed a highly tuned trend antenna. It implicitly associated him with other celebrity proponents of the suit-without-shirt look, like Timothée Chalamet (who popularized the trend when he went shirtless to the 2022 Oscars). Little wonder LeagueFits announced that "Atlanta will be competing for a leaguefits championship, confirmed."
Notably restrained was Brandon Miller, the No. 2 pick, in a three-piece plaid number, and Amen and Ausar Thompson, identical twins chosen fourth and fifth, who wore matching double-breasted suits by the tailor Waraire Boswell. One was white, and one was navy. "They went for subtlety," Mr. Jackson said, a sign of just how much draft fashion has shifted from the straightforward "look at me" to "think about me" or "invest in me."
Pointedly, the looks were part of a collaboration with Amex, and Mr. Boswell also designed a limited-edition jacket inspired by the Thompson suits that will be available only to Amex cardholders. Why not start the influencing as soon as possible?
On the other end of the spectrum were Scoot Henderson (picked third) and Gradey Dick (picked 13th), who were the most bedazzled athletes of the night. Even then, though, their bling wasn't just bling for bling's sake. It was bling with reason.
Mr. Henderson's suit, by Indochino (a label that has something of a lock on draft-day dressing, this year working with nine athletes), was covered in more than 600 gemstones meant to represent his family tree, incorporating the birthstones of his parents and siblings.
"I wanted to be very thoughtful about how my draft-day look represents both my journey so far and what's next," Mr. Henderson, who also wore a customized bedazzled grill, said in a news release. "This suit is a visual representation of what got me here."
This is the next iteration of the personal-story-in-a-lining approach that has become familiar among many players, who paper the inside of their jackets with photographs and memorabilia printed onto silk. See, for example, Taylor Hendricks (picked ninth), whose sugar-pink suit concealed a whole biography.
As for Mr. Dick, he wore a turtleneck and zoot suit jacket, both covered in red sequins. The look got him compared to Zoolander and Siegfried and Roy on social media but was a nod, he said, to Dorothy's ruby slippers and his own journey from Kansas to the presumably magical world of the Toronto Raptors (a team whose color also happens to be red). Not to mention the suggestion that he has courage and heart, too.
As a choice, the sequins were mocked and praised in equal measure, but either way they were impossible to ignore. In the attention economy, that's a win.
Photograph Top, the 2023 N.B.A. draft class showing off its finery. Above from left: Victor Wembanyama, selected first overall; Kobe Bufkin; and Amen (left) and Ausar Thompson (right). Below left, Gradey Dick. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST3.

Subject: Luggage; Professional basketball; Books; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/23/style/nba-draft-best-dressed.html

Title: Bold Uniforms for the Game Within a Game:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 25, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829133918

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bold-uniforms-game-within/docview/2829133918/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Away From Ibiza, in a Place That Welcomes Bare Feet: [Style Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/away-ibiza-place-that-welcomes-bare-feet/docview/2828104557/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Forget Ibiza. A hip new hotel opening underscores how many in the style set opt for the charms of Majorca instead.
The Serra de Tramuntana is a mountain range that runs along the northwestern edge of the island of Majorca, off the coast of mainland Spain. Its towering peaks and valleys are lined with ancient olive groves, lemon orchards and picturesque hilltop villages. The winding pathways that dot the rugged cliffs plunge through pine trees and goat herds to meet the Mediterranean Sea.
Nine years ago, the British fashion photographer Kate Bellm decided to make these mountains her home, building a house just off the coastal road between the towns of Deia and Soller and commuting to shoots for clients like Gucci and magazines like British Vogue. In 2020, after she fell in love with the 18th-century finca next door, she and her husband, the Mexican artist Edgar Lopez Arellano, decided to turn their hands to hospitality.
Hotel Corazon opened earlier this month, after more than two years of work by the couple alongside a team from Moredesign, a local architecture practice that's a mainstay of glossy magazines like Architectural Digest.
"We were covered in dust for months and months," Ms. Bellm, 35, said as she made her way from a cavernous room with a fireplace centerpiece -- perfect for snuggle puddles or sound baths, she declared -- and into a verdant inner courtyard. The hotel's aesthetic, and particularly its bedrooms, feels heavily influenced by the organic architecture movement of the 1970s, which espoused carving out a harmonious balance between the synthetic and natural worlds.
All of the rooms are individually designed but share curving pigmented lime walls in soft shades of pink, sage and ocher; custom-made furniture by local artisans; shaggy carpets; and windows that open out onto gardens overflowing with palm and jacaranda trees, honeysuckle and cactuses (Mr. Arellano, 40, who specializes in constructing zero-water cactus gardens, was busy potting several varieties on the restaurant terrace nearby.) Rooms range from 550 euros (about $ 600) to 1,800 euros.
"When I came here for the first time, I knew immediately what we needed to do and what it had the capacity to give," said Ms. Bellm, who wore stonewashed denim flares and braids in her mane of hair. "A place this island is missing -- a supercool hotel that feels like the private home of a friend, with wellness at its core and where you can't break the rules because there are none. I wanted to create a place that my people -- fashion people -- will totally love."
Earlier this month the supermodel Anja Rubik, who owns a house on Majorca, booked Hotel Corazon to celebrate her 40th birthday. Alexandre de Betak, who produces runway shows, and Mario Sorrenti, the fashion photographer, also own holiday houses close by.
But don't most of the fashion "it" crowd descend on Ibiza during the summer? Ms. Bellm wrinkled her nose.
"I feel like the big dogs come here," she said. "Obviously Ibiza is great to pop in, but it's just a different scene, shall we say. I feel like Majorca is very unpretentious. You can just be in your pajamas all day basically, especially here at Corazon. This is a hotel for those who want to be barefoot, eat straight from the trees, swim in the sea at night and get lost in the pines."
Concierge services will be via WhatsApp for guests wanting to know the best hidden swimming coves and caves for summer, or hiking trails to waterfalls and meadows full of wild mountain flowers during the cooler seasons. Adventure fuel can be found in the hotel's homemade date shakes or matcha smoothies, and restoration in its yoga, sound healing, massage and reiki sessions.
The menu is designed to be "local, seasonal, medicinal and delicious," Ms. Bellm said, with most of the produce grown in Hotel Corazon's newly planted organic farm with 50 garden beds. There is also an artist residency program underway, with painters, sculptors and ceramists chosen by Ms. Bellm to stay and create work at the hotel, with a final exhibition in Corazon's gallery at the end of their time there.
"I love collaborating with artists and to see how they make things -- it gives you inspirations to do things differently in your own world" said Ms. Bellm, whose main client is currently Zara and who added that she was shooting more and more work at the hotel and on the island. "Plus, we can also help them tap into the creative community that exists here in Majorca, who can fix their vintage cameras or fire their pots. I want people to be able to thrive on this place like I have."
After forging her professional reputation on super-sexy depictions of, in her words, "rock 'n' roll babes," Ms. Bellm said that her muses now were "the wild mothers of Majorca who live near me and take their babies in the rocks and, like, swim naked with starfish in their hands. They are so badass." Ms. Bellm's son, Sage, was born on the island.
It is little surprise that one of her favorite pastimes at the hotel is topless gardening with neighbors.
"We should totally also do a sound bath down here, it really floats you into another realm" she said excitedly as she walked through the farm and chomped into a ripened peach. "The more I think about it, the more I just want to be around the veggies and have them experience the gong too."
Photograph Above, the Majorcan estate that Kate Bellm and her husband, Edgar Lopez Arellano, had renovated. Above right, one of the bedrooms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS & RUTH; MELISSA GIDNEY) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Architecture; Swimming; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Hotels & motels

Location: Majorca; Ibiza

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/21/style/hotel-corazon-wants-to-host-your-hot-girl-summer.html

Title: Away From Ibiza, in a Place That Welcomes Bare Feet:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 22, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2828104557

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/away-ibiza-place-that-welcomes-bare-feet/docview/2828104557/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After the Tonys, It Was Time to Present the Party: [Style Desk]

Author: Bahr, Sarah; Coleman, Nancy

Publication info: Bahr, Sarah; Coleman, Nancy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-tonys-was-time-present-party/docview/2825675297/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Spirited celebrations that included a block party in Washington Heights and a gathering at the Carlyle Hotel extended past 4 a.m.
It wasn't hard to spot J. Harrison Ghee at the official Tony Awards after-party outside the United Palace theater in Washington Heights on Sunday night -- they towered over much of the crowd in a vibrant blue gown, with a statuette in hand and a trail of well-wishers close behind. After their groundbreaking win for best leading actor in a musical -- they became the first out nonbinary performer to win in the category -- the gown color, it seemed, was fortuitous.
"I felt like this is such a Cinderella moment," they said.
Hundreds of the ceremony's attendees spilled out, shortly after 11 p.m., almost directly into the party: a tented extension of the fuchsia carpet and its lush floral backdrop, with catering that reflected both the culinary traditions of the neighborhood's surrounding communities (paella, ceviche, mango on sticks) and also the immediate hunger of nominees who had sat snackless for hours. (About 800 hamburgers from Shake Shack were gone within 90 minutes.)
The Tonys, which celebrate Broadway's best plays and musicals, were held uptown for the first time this year at the United Palace -- an ornate movie house at 176th Street in Washington Heights, nearly eight miles north of Times Square. The theater is tucked within the largely Dominican neighborhood where Lin-Manuel Miranda shot the 2021 film adaptation of his musical "In the Heights."
"To show off one of the cultural gems of the city to a national audience is super exciting," Heather Hitchens, the president and chief executive of the American Theater Wing, which puts on the Tonys with the Broadway League, said in an interview on Saturday.
"The after-party is always important, but to celebrate that we made it through a season and we gave some awards out and actually had a telecast?" she said, continuing, "We haven't been able to do that for so long."
Sunday's ceremony was certainly an unusual one. With the Writers Guild of America still on strike, the show featured unscripted commentary from presenters, abundant musical performances from the year's productions -- plus Lea Michele's rendition of "Don't Rain on My Parade" from last season's "Funny Girl" -- and a wordless opening dance number by Ariana DeBose, the show's host.
"Ariana DeBose," Wayne Brady, who is set to star in the 2024 Broadway revival of "The Wiz," said later in the evening, shaking his head. "She was tremendous. She can improvise like no one's business."
"It went so smoothly," said Bonnie Milligan, a Tony Award winner for best featured actress in a musical for her performance as a scheming aunt in the offbeat musical "Kimberly Akimbo," which was the top winner of the night with five trophies overall. "So many people were able to speak in solidarity with the strike."
With a long list of celebrations still ahead, many of the night's winners and nominees stayed at the official after-party only briefly before moving on to smaller soirees hosted by individual productions across the city.
Julia Lester, a nominee for her turn as Little Red Riding Hood in the revival of "Into the Woods," was leaving with her father as many attendees were still arriving. Ms. Lester said she was "just seeing where the night takes me." She wore a voluminous green ball gown, sheer elbow-length gloves, a black choker and a bow in her red curly hair. "I'm wearing a hoop skirt, so I can't do that much. Sitting down was a nightmare."
Jordan Roth, the president of Jujamcyn Theaters, donned a sparkling scarlet outfit meant to elicit, he said, "Big Red Riding Hood." His after-party plans, he added, would extend "until the hood falls off, which is literally impossible. It's pinned, glued, sewn -- I probably won't be able to take it off to go to sleep."
By 12:30 a.m., many had left the official after-party, and most of the nominees began heading to the Carlyle Hotel on the Upper East Side, where the theater publicist Rick Miramontez -- dressed in a white blazer with red-and-white striped shorts -- was hosting his famed late-night shindig for several hundred guests with the producer John Gore.
"This is the party," Mr. Brady proclaimed from a couch nestled alongside an open bar near the hotel's entrance.
Kolton Krouse, who starred in a recent revival of "Bob Fosse's Dancin"' and uses the pronouns they and them, also opted for business-on-top-party-on-the-bottom, sporting a black blazer that barely covered their torso atop gold heels.
"Congratulations!" they said, lunging to stop Jessica Chastain, who was wearing a caped, sunshine-yellow Gucci gown, her long red hair in a high ponytail, as she swept in around 12:30 a.m. -- accompanied by her grandmother, Marilyn Herst.
"I bring her with me to all the parties," said Ms. Chastain, who was nominated for best leading actress in a play for her performance as the housewife Nora Helmer in Jamie Lloyd's bare-bones revival of "A Doll's House."
The English actress Jodie Comer had won the category for her performance as a lawyer who defends men accused of sexual assault in the one-woman show "Prima Facie," but you would not know it by Ms. Chastain's cadre of photographers, who temporarily clogged the passageway between the upper lounge and a bar area, and a receiving line of those congratulating the actress after the play's final performance this past weekend.
"I hope it's not over forever," Ms. Chastain said as shutters clicked away.
Buckets of Moet & Chandon champagne were placed around the room, while waiters in white blazers ferried silver trays of sliders and cartons of French fries around four rooms. On side tables sat slender trays of nuts and chips, which nominees appreciatively munched.
In a back room alongside a bar, a cabaret singer crooned Frank Sinatra's "Nice 'n' Easy" accompanied by a pianist and a cellist. (The Tony-winning soprano Kelli O'Hara, in a feathery white gown, bopped to the music.)
The party began to pick up around 1 a.m. Ben Platt, accompanied by his fiancé, Noah Galvin, in a matching black suit, got a hug from Micaela Diamond, his co-star in "Parade," which won best revival of a musical. Ms. Lester -- whose night had apparently taken her to the Carlyle -- was deep in conversation in a corner with Julie Benko, the "Funny Girl" alternate for Michele's Fanny Brice.
Attendees discussed the beauty of the United Palace, a dazzling remnant of the golden age of cinema, which many had been inside for the first time that night.
"I am so in love with that house," Mr. Brady said.
Shortly before 3 a.m., many of the performers began heading out, though the party would last until after 4 a.m.
"I'm excited to have a shot at the Tonys next year," Mr. Brady, "The Wiz" star-to-be, said around 2:30 a.m., before heading for the door.
"In the bigger sense, I'm excited about making history with such a melanated cast, a mostly Black creative team."
Photograph Clockwise from top left: Alex Newell, left, and J. Harrison Ghee; Ben Platt and Micaela Diamond; Jessica Chastain, with her grandmother Marilyn Herst; Bonnie Milligan, left, and Miriam Silverman; Victoria Clark, right; Myles Frost, left; and Jordan Roth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Nominations; Theater; Actors; Sex crimes; Film adaptations

People: Chastain, Jessica; Platt, Ben

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/12/style/tony-awards-after-party.html

Title: After the Tonys, It Was Time to Present the Party:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 15, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2825675297

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-tonys-was-time-present-party/docview/2825675297/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Digital Window Into the Downtown Scene: [Style Desk]

Author: Schacter, Cara

Publication info: Schacter, Cara. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digital-window-into-downtown-scene/docview/2824427202/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Gutes Guterman sat on an antique French farm bench in Pig Bar, a craft beer shop overlooking the scene-y slice of Lower Manhattan known as Dimes Square. Reaching for a gherkin, her hand in a lacy fingerless glove, she paused to gesture toward the former site of the Drunken Canal newspaper box.
"If you know, you know," she said.
It was a cool spring day, and Ms. Guterman, 26, was here to talk about her latest editorial venture: Byline, a website that went live on Thursday.
But first she had to address the end of her analog publication, The Drunken Canal, a print-only newspaper meant for people who have "made out at Clandestino," as Ms. Guterman put it in a TikTok video, referring to a bar at the center of the scene.
Ms. Guterman and a friend, Claire Banse, started the paper mid-lockdown. During its nearly two-year run, the unmarked box near Seward Park was frequently restocked to meet demand for what became a sort of downtown vade mecum. Cheeky and cryptic, it ran headlines like "Basic Things to Try This Fall (Based on Your Level of Depression)" and "New York Men You Will Ghost -- as Chocolates."
The writer Dean Kissick, a contributor to The Drunken Canal, summed up the ethos surrounding the publication in a 2020 tweet: "On 6th street around 11 last night we passed a girl kneeling on her stoop, facing the railings, reading a copy of the Drunken Canal with no socks on."
There were stickers: "Don't read The Drunken Canal. CALL YOUR MOM!" Vogue called it "downtown New York's paper of record for gossip." The Cut said it was an "unfiltered antidote to the careful, conservative vibe" that had become prevalent on the two founders' social media feeds.
"Not being online was important at that time," Ms. Guterman said, contemplating a charcuterie board. "We wanted to make something you could touch at a time when you weren't supposed to touch anything." She paused for prosciutto. "The fact that it was offline was a product of its time, as opposed to, like, a philosophy of living."
The final issue ran in November. In March, the paper told its 17,000 Instagram followers that The Drunken Canal had been part of a sociological study conducted by Harvard University (it wasn't really) and, also, to stay tuned for a sequel (really).
Getting a Byline
"A sequel, but not necessarily Part 2," is how Ms. Guterman described Byline at Pig Bar, a recently opened pub with studded leather floors, cured meats, Amish butter, Sabrett hot dogs, something with quinoa called a Dream Bowl and miscellaneous essentials like Visine eye drops and Camel Blues.
"The Drunken Canal was an amazing thing, but Byline is bigger," she said. "The big sister. No. Not the big sister. An aunt."
Over locally brewed raw honey ale, Ms. Guterman and her Byline co-founder, Megan O'Sullivan, 30, spoke of "creating a universe of content."
The new publication will be "unbridled" and "niche," Ms. Guterman said, giving the example of an article headlined "Monogamy in This Economy?," which proposes polyamory as a financial coping mechanism. Other potential rubrics include "Heel Hunter," an analysis of crowdsourced foot photos, and "Hot Girl Lit," a catalog of "hot writers."
Ms. O'Sullivan broke off a piece of Parmesan and described the void they planned to fill. What young writers need, she said, is "a place that feels informal and fun and champions the individual."
A regular contributor to The Drunken Canal, Ms. O'Sullivan -- Texas-born, categorically sweet -- credited the paper with jump-starting her freelance writing career at i-D, GQ and Vogue.
"The problem is that the individual still needs a platform to reach people," she said.
Ms. Guterman and Ms. O'Sullivan have assembled an advisory board that includes: Ben Dietz, a former longtime executive at Vice Media; Taj Alavi, the head of marketing at Spotify; and Trevor McFedries, creator of the robot pop star Lil Miquela. Madeline Montoya, an art director at Bloomberg Businessweek, is working as Byline's creative director.
In phone interviews, Ms. Montoya and Mr. Dietz said the site would resist easy categorization.
"It's easy to say it's a digital magazine, but -- this sounds silly -- I almost don't want to call it anything," Ms. Montoya said. "Everything's on the table."
Mr. Dietz talked about "fungibility," noting that it won't be restricted to text. "Think of a byline metaphorically," he said.
Byline, which shares in the same upstart spirit that gave rise to indie publications of previous generations (think: Spy, Might, Gawker), is making its debut at a terrible time in the digital media business. Millions of dollars from investors looking to cash in on the next big thing could not prevent Vice from filing for bankruptcy last month. Shortly before that, Vox and Insider laid off significant numbers of employees, and BuzzFeed shut down its news division.
"It's harder than ever if you're a young writer today," said Taylor Lorenz, who covers online culture for The Washington Post and has signed on as an adviser for Byline. "If you're starting out, who do you pitch for? There's no one left."
Ms. Lorenz, a former New York Times reporter who is writing a column for Byline, roll-called a number of defunct or diminished sites: "There was this middle ground when I was coming up -- xoJane, Jezebel, Rookie Mag, Hello Giggles, Man Repeller -- these midlevel media outlets where you could get your feet wet."
"It's all gone," she said, "and no one has built anything to replace it."
Ms. Guterman seemed unfazed. "Byline really feels like right time, right place," she said in a text on the day that Paper magazine laid off its staff and ceased publication. "It's like we're walking into a graveyard and building a bar."
'Love'
The idea of "fun" came up a lot during an April video call with the Byline design team.
"Do we want to have a fun mouse?" Ms. O'Sullivan asked.
Ms. Montoya said the site has enough "hee-hee" elements.
Ms. Guterman wanted the interface to be "sealed with a wink," she said, without being "something you need to wink about." Nothing "too doodle-y," she added, though there should be "some squiggles somewhere."
Chris Oka, a programmer, was asked if it would be possible to "make the hamburger something cuter than a hamburger" ("hamburger" being coder-speak for the navigation menu icon that is traditionally three stacked lines).
"Can it be an actual hamburger?" Ms. Guterman asked.
"I like the idea of, once in a while, you go to a story and it's like ... leaning," Ms. Montoya said, sharing her screen with the group to show a visual asset tipping over.
"Love," Ms. O'Sullivan said.
"And you're like ... why?" Ms. Montoya explained.
"I love that," Ms. Guterman said.
Mr. Oka suggested tilt-optional settings for users to input desired degree of image crookedness.
Sections needed streamlining. Should "On the Rise" be part of "Culture"? "Libations" gave Ms. O'Sullivan pause. She said, "If 'Libations' is in 'Culture,' and a lot of libation content is New York-based, then the question is: What is 'Culture' versus 'New York'?"
Ms. Guterman parsed it: "'Culture' is when it's, like, 'Absolut Vodka dropped a new flavor!' But 'New York' is when it's, like, 'New hot dog dropped at Parcelle!"'
Byline isn't a site for hard news. Ms. O'Sullivan said, "It's just like: 'Hey, what's up? I woke up this morning."'
Still, they have standards. Their submission inbox gets "a lot of rambling," Ms. Guterman said.
"Someone will email, 'I want to write about all of my boy troubles,"' she said. "And, well, maybe we don't really care about all your boy troubles." In that case, she said, they encouraged the writer to explore "boy troubles at large."
'Girlboss Juice'
On a hot May afternoon, the co-founders were talking corporate sponsorship over white wine, Diet Coke and mixed nuts at the Chelsea hotel. For now, contributors to Byline will be unpaid, but Ms. Guterman and Ms. O'Sullivan said they had been in talks with possible sponsors including the furniture company Knoll, the astrology app Co-Star and the kink-friendly dating app Feeld.
Wearing an emerald maxi dress and nude Gucci slides, Ms. Guterman clapped her hands. "We had a come-to-Jesus moment," she said. "We got rid of banner ads. I don't want to go on this gorgeous website and see banner ads."
"Eww," said Ms. O'Sullivan, who was wearing a big blazer and wide legged jeans.
The Drunken Canal didn't make money. It did, however, get the nutrition shake company Soylent to pay for a trip to Art Basel in Miami.
"It's kind of a muddled story," Ms. Guterman said of her fleeting relationship with the meal replacement company. "Basically, Claire and I wanted to go to Basel," she continued, referring to Claire Banse, the paper's co-founder. "I was like, 'Let's pretend Tesla flew us out.' Claire was like, 'No, no, let's pretend Soylent flew us out."'
Soylent struck Ms. Guterman as reachable. "I was like, 'I feel like I could get to Soylent,"' she said. Four hours later, she recalled, she was in a group chat with the company's founder, Rob Rhinehart.
"I said, 'I have an idea for you: Girlboss Juice. Soylent caters to your incel man on a computer, but Claire and I are going to Art Basel. We're not going to have time to eat. We're going to be running around to all these art fairs. We'll shill Soylent as "Girlboss Juice" to a whole new audience that doesn't believe Soylent works, and you'll fly us out to Basel.' They were like, 'We're in."'
Ms. O'Sullivan chimed in: "It honestly was how I became aware of Soylent."
The untapped market of the Clandestino cognoscenti watched on Instagram as the women chased shots with Soylent at Miami's hottest parties. Ms. Guterman recalled a DM from a friend who said he had started dreaming about Soylent.
"Synergy," Ms. Guterman said, is key. "The future of advertising is letting creatives be creative."
She also noted that she didn't want Byline to be "so digital." To keep the clunky charm of print and the deadline rush that she knew from her Drunken Canal experience, Byline will come out in "drops" -- a big dispatch at the top of the month, followed by weekly "trickles."
Issue 1 has 75 contributors from Seoul to San Diego ranging in age from 12 to 40-something. An article highlighted on the home page, written by Ms. Guterman, is headlined "Who Builds the Internet? Meet Wikipedia's Architects." Other pieces include a story on the rise of the selfie by Ms. Lorenz, and an installment of the Teenage Diaries column, "You Went to Prom, and Heaven Knows You're Miserable Now."
In search of child writers before the debut, Byline asked on Instagram: "Is your kid a genius?" Alas, Henry Jones, who turned 12 this week, is writing the column "Give the People What They Want." The title, he said, comes from the 1997 movie "Tomorrow Never Dies." It's what James Bond says before killing the bad guy with a petroleum drill. The line is apt for Byline "because the villain was like a big old media mogul," Henry explained in a phone interview, "so ... yeah."
Photograph Gutes Guterman, left, and Megan O'Sullivan, the founders of Byline. (ST8-ST9); Ms. Guterman said the content on Byline would be unbridled and niche. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANNA APISUKH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Writers; Layoffs; Online advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Online advertising

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/08/style/the-drunken-canal-byline-media.html

Title: A Digital Window Into the Downtown Scene:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 11, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Documenttype: News

ProQuest document ID: 2824427202

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digital-window-into-downtown-scene/docview/2824427202/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

These Put the 'Show' in 'Fashion Show': [Correction]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-put-show-fashion/docview/2823392941/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Chanel in Los Angeles, Dior in Mexico, Gucci in Seoul. Clothes are just a tiny part of the content.
In 1964, John Cheever published a short story called "The Swimmer" in which a seemingly happy suburbanite endeavors to swim his way home across New York's Westchester County, by going from one backyard pool to the next in an odyssey that reveals the truth of his world.
It's a scenario that sprang to mind during the last cruise (or resort) season, a monthlong series of extravaganzas in far-flung destinations that came to an end last week. It was not hard to imagine fashionistas hieing their way from show to show to show before finally returning home.
They could have started in Los Angeles with Chanel on May 9, moved on to Seoul with Gucci, on to Mexico City for Dior, then to northern Italy for Louis Vuitton (which had confusingly held a separate pre-fall show in Seoul just a few weeks before) and Alberta Ferretti, ending in Rio de Janeiro on June 1 with Carolina Herrera. Many of them may have been treated to their trips by the brands themselves (The New York Times does not accept press trips, so yours truly watches the shows on the computer), caravanning around the globe as if the pandemic was a speck in the rearview mirror.
In other words, despite all the lip service paid in recent seasons to reducing the excesses of fashion, this was one of the most mileage-intensive, blowout seasons on record, one that widened the gulf between the mega-brands that can orchestrate such spectacles and the rest of the industry.
Each brand, it seemed, was trying to one-up the others in offering "experiences" complete with dinners and famous guests dressed to the nines, selfie-ing away in extraordinary places: Jaden Smith, Eileen Gu and Emma Stone at Isola Bella, Italy, the Borromeo family's private island (Vuitton); Naomi Watts, Alicia Keys and Riley Keough at the Antiguo Colegio de San Ildefonso, once the school where Frida Kahlo studied and met Diego Rivera and now a museum (Dior); Kristen Stewart, G-Dragon and Sofia Richie at the Paramount Studios lot (Chanel).
Rarely has it been so clear that when it comes to fashion, there is now so much more at stake than just clothes.
It's About Content, Baby
The sheer fact that the press notes for Gucci's fashion fantasia in the 14th-century Gyeongbokgung Palace in Seoul contained not just a description of the "dialogue between the house's own heritage and the electrifying South Korean impact that influences it today" but also a 36-page document detailing the celebrities and "KOLs" (key opinion leaders) in attendance along with their Instagram, Twitter and TikTok followings, pretty much said it all.
The collection itself, a wetsuits-meets-the-bourgeoisie hybrid of neoprene, logos, suiting and chiffon created by an anonymous team because Gucci's new designer, Sabato De Sarno had not yet arrived, was significantly less striking than the idea that more than 350 million IG followers were granted secondary access to the experience through the postings of the lucky few actually in attendance.
In other words, the show allowed the brand to have its exclusivity -- to flex its power, ability to access a historic site that had never before hosted a fashion show and taste -- and advertise it widely too.
Not to mention court a market that is increasingly important, as K-pop takes over the world and China proves increasingly complicated politically. What better way to show respect, after all, than to go to the source?
That's also partly why Wes Gordon decided to take his first-ever Carolina Herrera cruise show, a bouquet of polka dots, juicy florals and cha-cha frills, to Brazil, in a nod to both the brand's Latin roots as well as the country's voracious appetite for beauty and fragrance.
Also Cultural Cross-pollination
Of course, the destination show also brings other benefits -- like inspiration. Designers have to produce so many collections, so often, that coming up with new ideas every season is pretty much a Sisyphean task. One advantage, then, of the traveling collection is that it comes with a built-in set of potential new ingredients based on paying "homage" to the culture and geography where a brand lands. This is both a necessary show of appreciation in the era of cultural appropriation, though one that can seem more expedient than long-lasting and authentic, and thematically useful.
Maria Grazia Chiuri of Dior, in particular, had made a virtue of the trend, positioning her cruise shows as platforms to showcase the work of local artisans and using her power to argue, at least for a season, that skills that have often been dismissed as "craft" deserve the same respect as couture. As a result, she has created a specific identity and reason for being for the Dior cruise collections that no other brand has quite managed.
This season was no different, with six different expert weavers and artisanal groups invited to contribute their work to classic Dior shapes like the Bar jacket; lacy petticoat shirtdresses; and filigree gowns (and to sit in the front row at the show). For a grand finale, designed by the Mexican artist and activist Elina Chauvet, there was a set of 20 white dresses -- muslin toiles, taken from the brand's archives -- embroidered in blood red with hearts and words meant to represent the violence visited on women, their fragility and strength. It was jarring but also unexpectedly effective.
Another kind of conceptual liberation was on view in Nicolas Ghesquière's Louis Vuitton show, which was weird in the best possible way: a bizarro amalgamation of sea creature silhouettes, sci-fi royalty and romance sparked perhaps by the island site but not limited by it. It made for a persuasive argument for getting designers, literally, out of their comfort zone. Free the imagination!
And Haute Merch
Not that it always works. For Virginie Viard of Chanel, a journey to Los Angeles led to what seemed like thoughts of roller-skating on the Venice boardwalk, "Barbie" (Margot Robbie was in attendance), aerobics and related clichés, including palm trees, playsuits and bubblelicious bouclé so saccharine it made the jaw clench. Ms. Viard can lean casually into the soignée -- see one shimmery, simple tank top with a wisp of a black skirt -- when she isn't trying so blindingly hard to be hip, but this was one case when going further afield meant going astray.
Blink in surprise, however, at a particularly lurid aqua warm-up suit and simply cast your eyes somewhere else: to the bright lights and snack carts and movie stars and later a performance by Snoop Dogg. The show around the show was so fabulous, the fact that so much of the collection was more souvenir kitsch than chic was washed away in the rush of fame and fun.
And that, in the end, is the crux of this particular fashion phenomenon. That's the memory dangled, and designed, for purchase. Like any piece of concert merch, these collections tap into the atavistic urge to own a sign that you were there.
Or there-ish.
Photograph Louis Vuitton, left and below, at the 17th-century Borromeo Palace on a private island in Italy, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTONIO CALANNI/ASSOCIATED PRESS; ANDRÉ LUCAT/ANDREKINA PHOTOGRAPHY; ANTONIO CALANNI/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Polka dots, florals and frills from Carolina Herrera, below, shown in Rio de Janeiro. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZÉ TAKAHASHI); Gucci, left, shown at the 14th-century Gyeongbokgung Palace in Seoul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUCCI); At Chanel, a white tank and pearls, left, and a nod to Barbie, below left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANEL): In Mexico City, Maria Grazia Chiuri's collection for Dior involved the work of local artisans, above and left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLEGIO DE SAN ILDEFONSO; YANNIS VLAMOS) This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Fashion shows; Fashion; Fashion designers; Brands

Business indexing term: Subject: Brands

Title: These Put the 'Show' in 'Fashion Show':   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 8, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2823392941

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-put-show-fashion/docview/2823392941/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jenny Lewis Keeps Finding the Magic: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Ryzik, Melena

Publication info: Ryzik, Melena. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jenny-lewis-keeps-finding-magic/docview/2822605770/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jenny Lewis didn't mean to wind up with the marimba.
But for the last year, a vintage percussion instrument has occupied pride of place in the singer-songwriter's forest green home studio. She inherited it from her godfather, Jerry Cohen, a music editor for TV and movies and an amateur musician, who died suddenly last spring. He was a surrogate dad to her, the kind who surreptitiously bought Hanukkah presents when money was tight in her household, and introduced her to jazz records when she was 10. She was the only person in the room with him when he passed away.
"He was my mentor and my best friend and the most Jewish of all people in my life," she said. "Jerry would want me to get lessons on the marimba."
Lewis, the 47-year-old indie artist whose country-rock troubadour style and evocative lyricism has earned her comparisons to songwriting greats from Nashville's Music Row to Laurel Canyon, has suffered a lot of loss lately. Her mother's death, in 2017, was the backdrop for her last album, "On the Line," in 2019. Now, after losing Cohen and another mentor, the album designer and her "rock 'n' roll dad" Gary Burden, there is "Joy'All," an album out June 9 that grapples with aging, life cycles and romantic (im)possibility and yet somehow feels vivacious.
"My 40s are kicking my ass," she sings on the third track over peppy acoustic guitars, "and handing them to me in a margarita glass." The song is called "Puppy and a Truck," her latest -- and perhaps most lasting -- prescription for happiness; she scored them both. "Having survived this moment, I felt like it was important to project something joyful," she said.
The dog, Bobby Rhubarb, a shiny black cockapoo, greeted me with a waist-high leap when I visited Lewis recently at her home at the end of a wildflower-lined canyon road in the San Fernando Valley. The house is called Mint Chip -- there's an ice cream cone etched in stained glass by the garage -- and Lewis acquired it after promising to maintain the whimsical touches that the Disney animator who built it in the 1950s installed. It attracts the fantastical too: during the pandemic, Lewis said, she discovered a baby squirrel had been sneaking in and hiding acorns under her pillow.
There is more than a little magic to her life. It's in the way Lewis amplifies the space around her (she decked out that truck, a Chevy Colorado, with ersatz Gucci seat covers) and even the way she made it out of a career as a child actor to succeed in another artistic universe.
"She's a unicorn," said Soleil Moon Frye, her fellow child star ("Punky Brewster") and a friend for decades. Even as a preteen, Lewis had musical skills, said Moon Frye, who documented their Hollywood crew's adolescence in home movies, released as the 2021 documentary "Kid 90." "We would memorize these hip-hop songs -- she was always so good at rapping."
Though she's pegged as a country-tinged folk rock songwriter, Lewis's keystone is still hip-hop, reggae, soul and funk -- "finding the story in rap-style verses and picking up an acoustic guitar, and kind of marrying the two worlds," she said. A printout of the Wikipedia entry for "3 Feet High and Rising," the landmark album by De La Soul, rested on the music stand in her studio; she was paging through it to understand all the samples they had used.
Her references for "Joy'All" included Tracy Chapman, whose conversational delivery she admires, Portishead and Frank Ocean. About half of the tracks for the LP were created over two years in Los Angeles. The rest she made in Nashville, where she has also had a home since 2017. It's her fifth studio album as a solo artist -- she started out in popular indie bands, Rilo Kiley and the Postal Service -- and her first release on Blue Note Records, the storied jazz label. (After her own tour, she'll be joining the Postal Service on the road this fall.)
Dave Cobb, the Nashville producer (Brandi Carlile, John Prine, Chris Stapleton) who worked on the album, was awe-struck by her ease and perennial good moods. "If you don't like Jenny Lewis, you don't like people," he said. Their sessions, tracking instruments like pedal steel and Mellotron, along with birdsong from Lewis's Nashville backyard, flowed easily. "To say she led is absolute, because we all played to her," he said, adding: "Everything she writes about is true. She literally showed up every day with the puppy and her truck."
She has the openness of someone who has spent a lifetime cheerfully talking about herself, and the staggeringly eccentric stories of a showbiz veteran. Sitting on the midnight blue couch in her minimalist living room, Lewis, in a sweatshirt, sunset-hued corduroys and a single gold hoop earring inscribed with her last name, touched on being Jewish; the spiritual guru Ram Dass; the female Elvis impersonator who was her childhood babysitter; the time her mother convinced Lucille Ball to have a sitcom wrap party in their ramshackle house ("Lucy walks in, and she goes, 'What a dump!"'); and the swap meet in Atlanta where she buys knockoff Gucci socks by the armful. "I would never buy a real Gucci sock -- that's so silly," she said.
Telling stories about Cohen, she cried. When she was a child, he took her to his job on the Universal Studios lot and let her draw and animate her own movies using giant old film machines. Being with him when he died "was probably like the most important moment of my whole life," she said.
Lewis's parents, itinerant lounge musicians, split when she was a toddler. Her acting career in the '80s changed the family's fortunes, for a time, but her mother's drug addiction and instability outpaced her sitcom earnings. She was estranged from her parents for decades, then reconciled with each late in their lives. Her father's bass harmonica sits on a stand on her mantel.
"On my dad's deathbed, he basically was like, 'learn musical theory,"' she said. "So there has been this pressure, from my people, to do better and learn more."
Jess Wolfe, one half of the duo Lucius, befriended Lewis and sings backup on "Joy'All." "I really understand the need for trying to lift yourself up through your art and hoping that it can do the same for other people -- she did that, in her cool, effortless Jenny Lewis kind of way," Wolfe said.
"She's always had to figure it out and take care of herself," she added. "She is incredibly resourceful and incredibly clever about how to do something, effectively, efficiently and affordably. Truly, I'm always blown away by her in that sense -- I will always feel creative when I'm around her."
At age 40, after Lewis separated from her longtime partner, the musician Johnathan Rice, she moved to New York for the first time, realizing a teenage ambition. She lived in her pal Annie Clark's (St. Vincent) apartment for two years, starting the side project NAF there with some friends. Then came Nashville, where she learned how to two-step at a honky-tonk across from the Ryman Auditorium.
In a rehearsal at a space covered in red velvet in Nashville last week, which she shared over a video call, Lewis directed her all-female backing band (she seeks out women for the stage and, for this outing, even has a female tour manager -- a relative rarity in the industry, and a first for her). "You guys just pedal on that, and let me do my thing," she said, as they prepared to sing "Acid Tongue," the title track off her 2008 solo debut. "Let's get those 'oohs,"' she instructed. The harmonies rolled in. "Well done," she told them. "It's just feeling confident."
Back in L.A., Lewis had confided that aging as an unfiltered, undoctored music star isn't easy. "I see myself and I don't always love it," she said. "But I'm trying to embrace being a woman in her 40s, and all that has to offer."
She is contentedly single now, though trying out a dating app, and itching to write about it -- even, she admitted, enjoying that more.
"My life is outrageous," she said, although her songwriting is not straight autobiography. "But if I'm being honest, I'm in every single line."
Photograph The singer-songwriter Jenny Lewis, at her California home in the San Fernando Valley. (C1); "Everything she writes about is true," the producer Dave Cobb said of the musician. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIEL FISHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Television programs; Marimba music; Songwriters; Postal & delivery services; Musicians & conductors; Motion picture directors & producers; Singers; Musical performances

Location: San Fernando Valley; United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

People: Cobb, Dave

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/05/arts/music/jenny-lewis-joyall.html

Title: Jenny Lewis Keeps Finding the Magic:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 6, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2822605770

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jenny-lewis-keeps-finding-magic/docview/2822605770/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jenny Lewis Keeps Finding the Magic

Author: Ryzik, Melena

Publication info: Ryzik, Melena. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jenny-lewis-keeps-finding-magic/docview/2822536742/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Jenny Lewis didn’t mean to wind up with the marimba.
But for the last year, a vintage percussion instrument has occupied pride of place in the singer-songwriter’s forest green home studio. She inherited it from her godfather, Jerry Cohen, a music editor for TV and movies and an amateur musician, who died suddenly last spring. He was a surrogate dad to her, the kind who surreptitiously bought Hanukkah presents when money was tight in her household, and introduced her to jazz records when she was 10. She was the only person in the room with him when he passed away.
“He was my mentor and my best friend and the most Jewish of all people in my life,” she said. “Jerry would want me to get lessons on the marimba.”
Lewis, the 47-year-old indie artist whose country-rock troubadour style and evocative lyricism has earned her comparisons to songwriting greats from Nashville’s Music Row to Laurel Canyon, has suffered a lot of loss lately. Her mother’s death, in 2017, was the backdrop for her last album, “On the Line,” in 2019. Now, after losing Cohen and another mentor, the album designer and her “rock ’n’ roll dad” Gary Burden, there is “Joy’All,” an album out June 9 that grapples with aging, life cycles and romantic (im)possibility and yet somehow feels vivacious.
“My 40s are kicking my ass,” she sings on the third track over peppy acoustic guitars, “and handing them to me in a margarita glass.” The song is called “Puppy and a Truck,” her latest — and perhaps most lasting — prescription for happiness; she scored them both. “Having survived this moment, I felt like it was important to project something joyful,” she said.
The dog, Bobby Rhubarb, a shiny black cockapoo, greeted me with a waist-high leap when I visited Lewis recently at her home at the end of a wildflower-lined canyon road in the San Fernando Valley. The house is called Mint Chip — there’s an ice cream cone etched in stained glass by the garage — and Lewis acquired it after promising to maintain the whimsical touches that the Disney animator who built it in the 1950s installed. It attracts the fantastical too: during the pandemic, Lewis said, she discovered a baby squirrel had been sneaking in and hiding acorns under her pillow.
There is more than a little magic to her life. It’s in the way Lewis amplifies the space around her (she decked out that truck, a Chevy Colorado, with ersatz Gucci seat covers) and even the way she made it out of a career as a child actor to succeed in another artistic universe.
“She’s a unicorn,” said Soleil Moon Frye, her fellow child star (“Punky Brewster”) and a friend for decades. Even as a preteen, Lewis had musical skills, said Moon Frye, who documented their Hollywood crew’s adolescence in home movies, released as the 2021 documentary “Kid 90.” “We would memorize these hip-hop songs — she was always so good at rapping.”
Though she’s pegged as a country-tinged folk rock songwriter, Lewis’s keystone is still hip-hop, reggae, soul and funk — “finding the story in rap-style verses and picking up an acoustic guitar, and kind of marrying the two worlds,” she said. A printout of the Wikipedia entry for “3 Feet High and Rising,” the landmark album by De La Soul, rested on the music stand in her studio; she was paging through it to understand all the samples they had used.
Her references for “Joy’All” included Tracy Chapman, whose conversational delivery she admires, Portishead and Frank Ocean. About half of the tracks for the LP were created over two years in Los Angeles. The rest she made in Nashville, Tennessee, where she has also had a home since 2017. It’s her fifth studio album as a solo artist — she started out in popular indie bands Rilo Kiley and the Postal Service — and her first release on Blue Note Records, the storied jazz label. (After her own tour, she’ll be joining the Postal Service on the road this fall.)
Dave Cobb, the Nashville producer (Brandi Carlile, John Prine, Chris Stapleton) who worked on the album, was awestruck by her ease and perennial good moods. “If you don’t like Jenny Lewis, you don’t like people,” he said. Their sessions, tracking instruments like pedal steel and Mellotron, along with birdsong from Lewis’ Nashville backyard, flowed easily. “To say she led is absolute, because we all played to her,” he said, adding: “Everything she writes about is true. She literally showed up every day with the puppy and her truck.”
She has the openness of someone who has spent a lifetime cheerfully talking about herself, and the staggeringly eccentric stories of a showbiz veteran. Sitting on the midnight blue couch in her minimalist living room, Lewis, in a sweatshirt, sunset-hued corduroys and a single gold hoop earring inscribed with her last name, touched on being Jewish; the spiritual guru Ram Dass; the female Elvis impersonator who was her childhood babysitter; the time her mother convinced Lucille Ball to have a sitcom wrap party in their ramshackle house (“Lucy walks in, and she goes, ‘What a dump!’”); and the swap meet in Atlanta where she buys knockoff Gucci socks by the armful. “I would never buy a real Gucci sock — that’s so silly,” she said.
Telling stories about Cohen, she cried. When she was a child, he took her to his job on the Universal Studios lot and let her draw and animate her own movies using giant old film machines. Being with him when he died “was probably like the most important moment of my whole life,” she said.
Lewis’s parents, itinerant lounge musicians, split when she was a toddler. Her acting career in the ’80s changed the family’s fortunes, for a time, but her mother’s drug addiction and instability outpaced her sitcom earnings. She was estranged from her parents for decades, then reconciled with each late in their lives. Her father’s bass harmonica sits on a stand on her mantel.
“On my dad’s deathbed, he basically was like, ‘learn musical theory,’” she said. “So there has been this pressure, from my people, to do better and learn more.”
Jess Wolfe, one half of the duo Lucius, befriended Lewis and sings backup on “Joy’All.” “I really understand the need for trying to lift yourself up through your art and hoping that it can do the same for other people — she did that, in her cool, effortless Jenny Lewis kind of way,” Wolfe said.
“She’s always had to figure it out and take care of herself,” she added. “She is incredibly resourceful and incredibly clever about how to do something, effectively, efficiently and affordably. Truly, I’m always blown away by her in that sense — I will always feel creative when I’m around her.”
At age 40, after Lewis separated from her longtime partner, the musician Johnathan Rice, she moved to New York for the first time, realizing a teenage ambition. She lived in her pal Annie Clark’s (St. Vincent) apartment for two years, starting the side project NAF there with some friends. Then came Nashville, where she learned how to two-step at a honky-tonk across from the Ryman Auditorium.
In a rehearsal at a space covered in red velvet in Nashville last week, which she shared over a video call, Lewis directed her all-female backing band (she seeks out women for the stage and, for this outing, even has a female tour manager — a relative rarity in the industry, and a first for her). “You guys just pedal on that, and let me do my thing,” she said, as they prepared to sing “Acid Tongue,” the title track off her 2008 solo debut. “Let’s get those ‘oohs,’” she instructed. The harmonies rolled in. “Well done,” she told them. “It’s just feeling confident.”
Back in LA, Lewis had confided that aging as an unfiltered, undoctored music star isn’t easy. “I see myself and I don’t always love it,” she said. “But I’m trying to embrace being a woman in her 40s, and all that has to offer .”
She is contentedly single now, though trying out a dating app, and itching to write about it — even, she admitted, enjoying that more.
“My life is outrageous,” she said, although her songwriting is not straight autobiography. “But if I’m being honest, I’m in every single line.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Television programs; Marimba music; Songwriters; Postal & delivery services; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Rice, Johnathan (1983 ); Entertainment; Carlile, Brandi; Lewis, Jenny; Ryman Auditorium (Nashville, Tenn); Music; Country Music; Atlanta (Ga); Ball, Lucille; Pop And Rock Music; Television; Cobb, Dave (1974 ); Tennessee; Rilo Kiley; St Vincent (1982 ); Movies; Arts; Lucius (Music Group); De La Soul; Careers And Professions; Chapman, Tracy; Ocean, Frank; Presley, Elvis; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Art; Prine, John; Wikipedia; Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Folk Music; Moon Frye, Soleil; San Fernando Valley (Calif); Nashville (Tenn); Gucci; Portishead (Music Group); Ram Dass (1931 ); Colorado; Happiness; Ryzik, Melena; Stapleton, Chris (1978 ); Age, Chronological

Title: Jenny Lewis Keeps Finding the Magic

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-05T23:59:21Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2822536742

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jenny-lewis-keeps-finding-magic/docview/2822536742/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Balenciaga's Uncanceling Strategy Is Working: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/balenciagas-uncanceling-strategy-is-working/docview/2821251727/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At the Cannes Film Festival, the Met Gala and with a new collection. Is the world ready?
Demna, the mononymic designer of Balenciaga, that former harbinger of all things haute and cool that experienced a highly public fall from grace last winter, simply cannot resist a visual metaphor. His collections became famous as comments on the world around us and then infamous: He sent refugees trudging through a maelstrom after Russia invaded Ukraine; fetishized capitalism in the New York Stock Exchange; and then veered uncomfortably close to associating children with S&M when he posed a youngster amid adult "toys," reminding the watching world that those who thrive by the viral image risk dying by it.
So what does it say that his resort collection, released digitally on May 30, features a video of models emerging from the vaulted wooden doors of the Balenciaga headquarters on Avenue George V, walking back into the world in their shoulder pads, hoodies and beaded gowns, only to be doused by a sudden downpour?
Coming three days after the end of a Cannes Film Festival in which more Balenciaga appeared on the red carpet than it had since last November, the message is pretty clear: Balenciaga is in the midst of its comeback, baby.
Welcome to the next stage of The Return. Or, as Mosha Lundström Halbert called it on TikTok, the "Balenciagassance." If the Balenciaga powers that be can pull it off, they will have added a new chapter to the story of early 21st-century cancel culture, becoming not just a case study on mismanagement in a crisis, but one on how to strategize a recovery without the public defenestration of the decision makers involved.
As you may remember, the erstwhile hottest brand in the world fell into disrepute after a troika of events -- its close relationship with Ye before his turn toward public antisemitism and racism; and a pair of ad campaigns that viewers claimed promoted pedophilia -- had it teetering on the brink of disaster. Balenciaga products were burned on social media; Kim Kardashian condemned the choices; sales during the crucial holiday period dipped markedly. Even in a fashion world regularly troubled by problems with appropriation and offense, the situation was extreme.
Caught up in a whirlwind of public opprobrium, Demna and the brand's executives seemed unsure how to react, before finally offering up statements of public apologies and self-recrimination. Then, after what seemed like a self-imposed timeout, they came tiptoeing out of the shadows with a show in February: a stripped-down march of the penitents involving no sets or social commentary, just clothes.
But then came the Met Gala and Demna's first major public appearance, albeit one in a fashion safe space, where he hosted a table for young designers who could not afford their own tickets. Then came Cannes and the return of red carpet names to the fold.
It was clear that a master plan of sorts was unfolding. One that was tactical and considered and with some of fashion's most influential power players carefully pulling public strings.
Anna Wintour, for example, who very deliberately invited Demna to the Met and who has made something of a personal cause of second chances: masterminding John Galliano's return to fashion after he was fired from Dior thanks to a drug-and-alcohol-fueled antisemitic rant, as well as supporting Georgina Chapman after the crimes of her former husband, Harvey Weinstein, tarnished her brand, Marchesa. Indeed, Ms. Wintour said, she was "thrilled" to have Demna attend the Met, citing his "sincere" apologies and commitment "to making changes at the house.
"I've always thought part of owning up to one's mistakes is to not hide away, but to be honest -- and go out and face the world," she said.
Her embrace sent a signal to the rest of the fashion world, as did the fact that François-Henri Pinault, the billionaire chief executive of Kering, the luxury conglomerate that owns Balenciaga, wore a Balenciaga tuxedo to the Met rather than one of his many other brands, such as Saint Laurent, Gucci or Brioni. It was a public sign of his commitment to the brand and its designer.
Mr. Pinault doubled down on his support at Cannes, once again wearing Balenciaga "on purpose," he said. And it wasn't just Mr. Pinault: His wife, Salma Hayek Pinault, also wore Balenciaga, as did Michelle Yeoh, Isabelle Huppert, Alton Mason and the French singer Yseult, in red carpet images that would be captured and sent around the world, putting their brand equity where Balenciaga's was.
As to why, Cédric Charbit, Balenciaga's chief executive, said they were all wearing custom looks and "that happens through long-term relationships."
"It's not an overnight process, and it needs to be meaningful," he said. Suggesting, again, that the decisions were planned gestures of affirmation.
The chosen site seemed a carefully calibrated choice as well, given that an equally if not more controversial return -- that of Johnny Depp to the big screen -- also took place at Cannes, effectively paving the way. (Also, the brouhaha over Balenciaga had always been lower in Europe than it was in the United States, so it made sense to start the comeback there.)
Admittedly, when pictures of Ms. Yeoh and Co. in their Balenciagas appeared, there were a few social media comments taking them to task, but any negative reaction was far outweighed by the fire emojis. Overall, backlash was almost nonexistent. Diet Prada issued not a peep.
The outrage mob had, it seems, moved on. Luca Solca, a luxury goods market analyst, compared the Balenciaga situation to the Gucci "blackface difficulty" of 2019. "We have seen in the past that media mishaps have an impact for two to three quarters and then normalize," he said. He added that he expected Balenciaga to be "home and dry by the second half of 2023."
Now the question is whether Balenciaga can recapture the buzz and sales it generated before its crisis, a more complicated conjuring trick to pull off. It is one that requires the alchemical combination of products and desire that Demna once generated by upending all expectations and challenging stale ideas of "beauty" and "luxury."
While the cruise collection had some of that embedded within its signature oversize suits, puffer opera trenches and diva gowns -- "drawstring" bags that looked like the string bags used to tote grocery produce; "towel" wrap skirts that looked like bathroom towels -- such pieces no longer seem revolutionary. Like the ready-to-wear collection in March, they're familiar.
That's OK. As Hermès has proved, there is profit in consistency, if not excitement. And Demna can create truly gorgeous, sophisticated clothes, with the purity of line synonymous with the house. See one fan-pleated silk dress with winged sleeves that simultaneously suggests the body while framing it like a bas-relief. But the magic that was once there, that sense of gleeful, liberating, absurdist challenge?
That still hasn't come back.
Photograph Above, the actor Alton Mason on the red carpet at the Cannes Film Festival in May. From left: the actors Isabelle Huppert and Michelle Yeoh and the singer Yseult in Cannes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VITTORIO ZUNINO CELOTTO/GETTY IMAGES; JOEL C RYAN/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; KRISTY SPAROW/GETTY IMAGES); Looks from Balenciaga's 2024 resort collection, including a fan-pleated silk dress with winged sleeves, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BALENCIAGA) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Antisemitism; Social networks; Motion picture festivals

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

People: Yeoh, Michelle; Huppert, Isabelle

Company / organization: Name: Cannes Film Festival; NAICS: 512131, 711320; Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/01/style/balenciaga-cannes-comeback.html

Title: Balenciaga's Uncanceling Strategy Is Working:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 1, 2023

column: Unbuttoned

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Placeof publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821251727

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/balenciagas-uncanceling-strategy-is-working/docview/2821251727/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Stylish Statements From the Student Body: [Style Desk]

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stylish-statements-student-body/docview/2821251699/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A procession of teenagers with hard-faced stares strutted through an evening rain during a small fashion show in Lower Manhattan, causing a mixture of delight and bewilderment among passers-by who witnessed the spectacle.
As techno music blasted, one teenager after another stopped to pose for cameras in a cordoned-off area of Gansevoort Plaza in the meatpacking district. Upon their return to a tented area, they exchanged hugs and high fives with their fellow models. Couples having dinner at Serafina and chic women on their way to Pastis did double takes.
After all, wasn't New York Fashion Week not until September? And why was the audience cheering with the kind of abandon typical of parents at a graduation ceremony?
As it happened, the event that took place last Wednesday evening was a graduation ceremony of sorts: This was the annual runway show for the senior class of the High School of Fashion Industries, the only trade-based public school in New York City dedicated to fashion.
The school was founded as a vocational institution in the 1920s and occupies an old Art Deco-style building in Chelsea‌, and its students prepared for the evening, the highlight of the school year, with the same level of intensity that goes into producing the Marc Jacobs fashion week closing show.
Tyrone and Marlene Jackson had come to the show from the Jamaica neighborhood of Queens to support their daughter, Mia, a senior who plans to attend the Fashion Institute of Technology.
"We knew she was talented the moment she started drawing on the couch at 3 years old," Ms. Jackson said. "Fashion Industries has prepared her for what's next."
"People only hear about LaGuardia," she continued, referring to the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, "but this school is the best-kept secret in New York. The kids show their gifts at this show."
An annual tradition dating to the 1940s, the event is the High School of Fashion Industries's equivalent to a homecoming football game. It is intended as a showcase for the looks created by seniors in the school's fashion design program. This year's theme, "The Elemental Ball," encouraged designs that evoke nature.
Nearly everyone at the school chips in: Freshmen volunteer as models, sophomores work as makeup assistants and juniors serve as runway photographers. The school even offers a modeling workshop to teach students how to bring ferocity to their runway moves.
The stakes felt higher this year. Until this spring, the show had always taken place on a runway in the school's auditorium. Now the students were showing off their creations in public -- in a trendy neighborhood with strong ties to the fashion community, no less -- through a partnership with the local Business Improvement District association.
These were the same cobblestones that Carrie Bradshaw once clomped across during her early morning walks back home from clubbing. And this was the site of last year's Vogue World, a fashion extravaganza presided over by Anna Wintour that drew some of the biggest names in fashion (Balenciaga, Dior, Gucci) and its most dedicated followers and ambassadors (Serena Williams, Gigi Hadid, Lil Nas X).
For the High School of Fashion Industries seniors, the Vogue World connection loomed large. For those taking part, the chance to showcase their garments at the same site as the Vogue event brought with it a sense of fantasy and affirmation. Just before the students hit the runway, Aiamdra Estrella, who plans to attend Queens College, reflected on the moment.
"This is the first time we've done it like this," said Ms. Estrella, who wore a long turquoise ruffle skirt that suggested the tropical ocean. "Tonight we get to follow in the footsteps of Vogue. We get to show the world who we are."
Caroline Castro, who lives in the Woodside neighborhood of Queens, wore a green floral dress that she had designed from sustainable elements such as rose stems, bottle caps and coffee filters.
"When we learned the show would be where Vogue World happened, we knew how important this was," she said. "We need more eyes on our school. We need better funding. Lots of New Yorkers don't know about us. Some of our sewing machines barely work."
"This dress is for my mother," she added. "She came from Colombia and became a babysitter for families on the Upper West Side. I'm going to Parsons next year and I'm dreaming big, because she gave me everything and I want to give back."
'Where's the Sass?'
Early in the morning on the day before the show, at the school's labyrinthine building on West 24th Street, nervous energy coursed through the fluorescent-lit hallways as students hurried through their final preparations.
In a studio filled with mannequins and old Singer sewing machines, Anyah Lewis, a senior, finessed a set of plastic moth wings. Beside a row of lockers plastered with fliers promoting the show, Jacob Santiago, a freshman, practiced his strut. And on a red brick balcony aglow with sunshine reflecting off the Empire State Building, a rehearsal was taking place.
Seniors lined up along the balcony, some of them yawning as they woke up from their morning commutes, from Mott Haven, Harlem, and East New York. But as soon as Britney Spears's "Gimme More" began playing from a portable speaker, they snapped into action, maintaining hard stares as they vogued down a practice path outlined with tape.
Brenda Rojas, a teacher nicknamed "the runway drill sergeant," barked feedback at them. Some 30 years earlier, Ms. Rojas had modeled in the show as a student at the High School of Fashion Industries.
"Give me some animal," she told a weary-looking teenager.
The student placed a hand on her hip.
"That's better," Ms. Rojas said. "Strike that pose. Eat it."
Another student model appeared on her runway.
"Where's the sass?" Ms. Rojas said. "I don't see any sass!"
The drill came to an end 15 minutes later. After the faculty members huddled to deliberate, one of them bellowed, "OK, let's run it again." And the students got back into formation.
Almost a century ago, the High School of Fashion Industries was founded as the Central Needle Trades High School. It operated out of a garment loft, teaching immigrant students how to sew, tailor, drape and sketch.
After an expansion led by the Works Projects Administration, it reopened in 1940 at its current site. The auditorium contains a landmark mural painted by Ernest Fiene that illustrates the struggles of early garment workers, including a depiction of the 1911 Triangle Shirtwaist factory fire.
In the 1950s, the school changed its name to the current one, and it gradually developed a fully fledged academic curriculum. Today it has some 1,600 students and offers majors including photography, merchandising, visual display, and graphics and illustration. Among the school's best-known recent alumni is the Haitian American designer Kerby Jean-Raymond, who founded the fashion label Pyer Moss.
"We're like the Hogwarts of fashion," Kate Boulamaali, an assistant principal, said in an interview at the school. "And we've been here a long time. This show, whether it was more atelier experience at first, then more runway later, has happened in some form here practically since the beginning."
Ms. Boulamaali cited fashion brands that have supported the show, such as Coach and Stuart Weitzman, which donated shoes this year, and Swarovski, which provides crystals. She mentioned some of the industry figures who have visited the school, like Tommy Hilfiger and Betsey Johnson. She recalled when André Leon Talley was made principal for a day and how he offered critiques of student holiday window designs.
Ms. Boulamaali also stressed the challenges of running a school that must prepare students for careers in an industry that can be as exclusionary as it is glamorous.
"The majority of our kids come from homes that are at or below poverty level," she said. "We're here to make sure they know they also belong and that their financial status shouldn't stop them. Sure, they're going to have to work a little harder, but our kids aren't afraid of hard work."
"We have disabled students here, autistic students and nonverbal students," she added. "You want to see someone with special needs who is still getting a chance to create fashion? Then come into our classrooms. We make sure everyone knows they have a shot."
Showtime
On the morning of the show, crowds of students began their journey from the school to the meatpacking district. Moving as one teenage swarm, they pushed garment racks through the streets for about 10 blocks, to Chelsea Market, where they hunkered down in a private room to begin their backstage prep.
Empty pizza boxes piled up as they coifed one another's hair with curling irons and applied press-on nails. Ali Rendich-Quinlan, a senior, practiced her moves in front of a mirror. Cavelin Sahba, a tall junior who volunteered to model in the show, sat with his eyes closed as Noreamy Almanzar, another senior, dabbed foundation on his face.
"I wanted to step out of my comfort zone, so I volunteered," Mr. Sahba said. "But now I find it empowering. It's not just a walk."
Ms. Almanzar applied eye shadow, saying, "The designer, Jayden, wants a smoky eye, so I'm building everything out so he can look amazing up there tonight."
As showtime approached, about 100 teenagers marched en masse to Gansevoort Plaza and formed a long line behind the runway tent. Parents, alumni, faculty and representatives of the New York City Department of Education were already seated. The sky had suddenly grown dark.
"Get ready -- it's going to rain hard," a teacher yelled. "The show must go on!"
As if the weather wasn't enough, it seemed to hit home, for some of the participants, that they were about to put on a fashion show at the same site the pros use. Nameera Mehdi, who wore a pink sari-like dress inspired by her Indian heritage, wasn't intimidated by Vogue's shadow.
"I can't wait to walk," she said. "We're the future generation. They're going to see what we're about."
As the line moved forward, the rain began to fall.
"Tell Vogue," Ms. Mehdi said, "that we're coming for them."
Photograph Above, celebrating with a group photo after the High School of Fashion Industries show. Left, key components inside the classroom. Below, from left: Izzy Brown with jewelry he made; Alijah Dockery and Dylan Gadsden; and Nameera Mehdi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUS ARONSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D5.

ERIC Subject: Students with Disabilities; Migrant Education; Adolescents; Needle Trades; Public Schools; Special Needs Students; Neighborhoods; Graduation; High Schools; Principals

Subject: Fashion models; Design; Sewing machines; Neighborhoods; Secondary schools; Fashion designers; Graduations & commencements; School principals; Immigrant students

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/31/style/fashion-high-inside-new-yorks-semi-secret-school-for-style.html

Title: Stylish Statements From the Student Body:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 1, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General I nterest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821251699

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stylish-statements-student-body/docview/2821251699/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 1, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside ‘the Hogwarts of Fashion’

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-hogwarts-fashion/docview/2821062290/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — A procession of teenagers with hard-faced stares strutted through an evening rain during a small fashion show in lower Manhattan, causing a mixture of delight and bewilderment among passersby who witnessed the spectacle.
As techno music blasted, one teenager after another stopped to pose for cameras in a cordoned-off area of Gansevoort Plaza in the meatpacking district. Upon their return to a tented area, they exchanged hugs and high-fives with their fellow models. Couples having dinner at Serafina and chic women on their way to Pastis did double takes.
After all, wasn’t New York Fashion Week not until September? And why was the audience cheering with the kind of abandon typical of parents at a graduation ceremony?
As it happened, the event that took place last week was a graduation ceremony of sorts: This was the annual runway show for the senior class of the High School of Fashion Industries, the only trade-based public school in New York City dedicated to fashion.
The school was founded as a vocational institution in the 1920s and occupies an art deco building in Chelsea, and its students prepared for the evening, the highlight of the school year, with the same level of intensity that goes into producing the Marc Jacobs fashion week closing show.
Tyrone and Marlene Jackson had come to the show from Queens to support their daughter, Mia, a senior who plans to attend the Fashion Institute of Technology.
“We knew she was talented the moment she started drawing on the couch at 3 years old,” Marlene Jackson said. “Fashion Industries has prepared her for what’s next.
“People only hear about LaGuardia,” she continued, referring to the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, “but this school is the best-kept secret in New York. The kids show their gifts at this show.”
An annual tradition dating to the 1940s, the event is the High School of Fashion Industries’ equivalent to a homecoming football game. It is intended as a showcase for the looks created by seniors in the school’s fashion design program. This year’s theme, “The Elemental Ball,” encouraged designs that evoke nature.
Nearly everyone at the school chips in: Freshmen volunteer as models, sophomores work as makeup assistants and juniors serve as runway photographers. The school even offers a modeling workshop to teach students how to bring ferocity to their runway moves.
The stakes felt higher this year. Until this spring, the show had always taken place on a runway in the school’s auditorium. Now the students were showing off their creations in public — in a trendy neighborhood with strong ties to the fashion community, no less — through a partnership with the local Business Improvement District association.
These were the same cobblestones that Carrie Bradshaw once clomped across during her early morning walks back home from clubbing. And this was the site of last year’s Vogue World, a fashion extravaganza presided over by Anna Wintour that drew some of the biggest names in fashion (Balenciaga, Dior, Gucci) and its most dedicated followers and ambassadors (Serena Williams, Gigi Hadid, Lil Nas X).
For the High School of Fashion Industries seniors, the Vogue World connection loomed large. For those taking part, the chance to showcase their garments at the same site as the Vogue event brought with it a sense of fantasy and affirmation. Just before the students hit the runway, Aiamdra Estrella, who plans to attend Queens College, reflected on the moment.
“This is the first time we’ve done it like this,” said Estrella, who wore a long turquoise ruffle skirt that suggested the tropical ocean. “Tonight we get to follow in the footsteps of Vogue. We get to show the world who we are.”
Caroline Castro, who lives in Queens, wore a green floral dress that she had designed from sustainable elements such as rose stems, bottle caps and coffee filters.
“When we learned the show would be where Vogue World happened, we knew how important this was,” she said. “We need more eyes on our school. We need better funding. Lots of New Yorkers don’t know about us. Some of our sewing machines barely work.
“This dress is for my mother,” she added. “She came from Colombia and became a babysitter for families on the Upper West Side. I’m going to Parsons next year and I’m dreaming big, because she gave me everything and I want to give back.”
‘Where’s the Sass?’
Early in the morning on the day before the show, at the school’s labyrinthine building on West 24th Street, nervous energy coursed through the fluorescent-lit hallways as students hurried through their final preparations.
In a studio filled with mannequins and old Singer sewing machines, Anyah Lewis, a senior, finessed a set of plastic moth wings. Beside a row of lockers plastered with flyers promoting the show, Jacob Santiago, a freshman, practiced his strut. And on a red brick balcony aglow with sunshine reflecting off the Empire State Building, a rehearsal was taking place.
Seniors lined up along the balcony, some of them yawning as they woke up from their morning commutes from Harlem and East New York, Brooklyn. But as soon as Britney Spears’ “Gimme More” began playing from a portable speaker, they snapped into action, maintaining hard stares as they vogued down a practice path outlined with tape.
Brenda Rojas, a teacher nicknamed “the runway drill sergeant,” barked feedback at them. Some 30 years earlier, Rojas had modeled in the show as a student at the High School of Fashion Industries.
“Give me some animal,” she told a weary-looking teenager.
The student placed a hand on her hip.
“That’s better,” Rojas said. “Strike that pose. Eat it.”
Another student model appeared on her runway.
“Where’s the sass?” Rojas said. “I don’t see any sass!”
The drill came to an end 15 minutes later. After the faculty members huddled to deliberate, one of them bellowed, “OK, let’s run it again.” And the students got back into formation.
Almost a century ago, the High School of Fashion Industries was founded as the Central Needle Trades High School. It operated out of a garment loft, teaching immigrant students how to sew, tailor, drape and sketch.
After an expansion led by the Works Projects Administration, it reopened in 1940 at its current site. The auditorium contains a landmark mural painted by Ernest Fiene that illustrates the struggles of early garment workers, including a depiction of the 1911 Triangle Shirtwaist factory fire.
In the 1950s, the school changed its name to the current one, and it gradually developed a fully fledged academic curriculum. Today it has some 1,600 students and offers majors like photography, merchandising, visual display, and graphics and illustration. Among the school’s best-known recent alumni is Haitian American designer Kerby Jean-Raymond, who founded the fashion label Pyer Moss.
“We’re like the Hogwarts of fashion,” Kate Boulamaali, an assistant principal, said in an interview at the school. “And we’ve been here a long time.
“This show, whether it was more atelier experience at first, then more runway later, has happened in some form here practically since the beginning.”
Boulamaali cited fashion brands that have supported the show, such as Coach and Stuart Weitzman, which donated shoes this year, and Swarovski, which provides crystals. She mentioned some of the industry figures who have visited the school, like Tommy Hilfiger and Betsey Johnson. She recalled when André Leon Talley was made principal for a day and how he offered critiques of student holiday window designs.
Boulamaali also stressed the challenges of running a school that must prepare students for careers in an industry that can be as exclusionary as it is glamorous.
“The majority of our kids come from homes that are at or below poverty level,” she said. “We’re here to make sure they know they also belong and that their financial status shouldn’t stop them. Sure, they’re going to have to work a little harder, but our kids aren’t afraid of hard work.
“We have disabled students here, autistic students and nonverbal students,” she added. “You want to see someone with special needs who is still getting a chance to create fashion? Then come into our classrooms. We make sure everyone knows they have a shot.”
Showtime
On the morning of the show, crowds of students began their journey from the school to the meatpacking district. Moving as one teenage swarm, they pushed garment racks through the streets for about 10 blocks, to Chelsea Market, where they hunkered down in a private room to begin their backstage prep.
Empty pizza boxes piled up as they coifed one another’s hair with curling irons and applied press-on nails. Ali Rendich-Quinlan, a senior, practiced her moves in front of a mirror. Cavelin Sahba, a tall junior who volunteered to model in the show, sat with his eyes closed as Noreamy Almanzar, another senior, dabbed foundation on his face.
“I wanted to step out of my comfort zone, so I volunteered,” Sahba said. “But now I find it empowering. It’s not just a walk.”
Almanzar applied eye shadow, saying, “The designer, Jayden, wants a smoky eye, so I’m building everything out so he can look amazing up there tonight.”
As showtime approached, about 100 teenagers marched en masse to Gansevoort Plaza and formed a long line behind the runway tent. Parents, alumni, faculty and representatives of the New York City Department of Education were already seated. The sky had suddenly grown dark.
“Get ready — it’s going to rain hard,” a teacher yelled. “The show must go on!”
As if the weather wasn’t enough, it seemed to hit home, for some of the participants, that they were about to put on a fashion show at the same site the pros use. Nameera Mehdi, who wore a pink sarilike dress inspired by her Indian heritage, wasn’t intimidated by Vogue’s shadow.
“I can’t wait to walk,” she said. “We’re the future generation. They’re going to see what we’re about.”
As the line moved forward, the rain began to fall.
“Tell Vogue,” Mehdi said, “that we’re coming for them.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Students with Disabilities; Migrant Education; Adolescents; Needle Trades; Public Schools; Special Needs Students; Graduation; High Schools; Principals

Subject: Design; Sewing machines; Secondary schools; Fashion designers; Graduations & commencements; Immigrant students; School principals

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: Balenciaga (Fashion Label); Rap And Hip Hop; Chelsea (Manhattan, Ny); Art; Christian Dior Sa; Empire State Building (Manhattan, Ny); Laguardia, Fiorello H, High School Of Music And Performing Arts; Colleges And Universities; Chelsea Market; Lil Nas X (Rapper); Vogue; Swarovski Ag; New York City; Marc Jacobs International Llc; New York Fashion Week; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire (1911); Hair; Sex And The City (Tv Program); Financial District (Manhattan, Ny); Meatpacking Di strict (Manhattan, Ny); Pyer Moss Apparel Group Llc; Dresses; Williams, Serena; Education Department (Nyc); East New York (Brooklyn, Ny); Education; Pastis (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Advertising And Marketing; Haiti; Fashion And Apparel; Stuart Weitzman Holdings Llc; Johnson, Betsey; Volunteers And Community Service; Upper West Side (Manhattan, Ny); Sewing; Education (K 12); Lifestyle; Fashion Institute Of Technology; Haitian Americans; Gucci; Wintour, Anna; Magazines; Education Department (Us); Hadid, Gigi (1995 ); Spears, Britney; Queens (Nyc); Coach Inc; Trademarks And Trade Names; Names, Organizational; Queens College, City University Of New York; Talley, Andre Leon; Weitzman, Stuart; Jean Raymond, Kerby

Title: Inside ‘the Hogwarts of Fashion’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 31, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-31T21:50:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821062290

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-hogwarts-fashion/docview/2821062290/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 31, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dining's New Boom Town: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Krishna, Priya

Publication info: Krishna, Priya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dinings-new-boom-town/docview/2817899878/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The crowds streaming into Highland Park Village are hungry for luxury. At this open-air shopping center in suburban Dallas, they valet-park their Porsches, sport Yves Saint Laurent handbags, flit in and out of Audemars Piguet and pause for brunch at Sadelle's, the fancy new deli from Major Food Group in New York.
Sadelle's has been open for just over a year, and it's not unusual to find the place packed on a Tuesday afternoon, as well-dressed guests sip mimosas and snack on $ 18 pigs in a blanket and $ 85 latkes topped with salmon and osetra caviar. Even the sugar for coffee comes to the table in tiny Le Creuset Dutch ovens.
Dallas has long had a reputation for living large, an image built on oil money and the wide swaths of ranch land displayed on its namesake TV series. But today, the city is enjoying a surge of new development, new residents, new wealth -- and a dining scene pumped up by the arrival of several high-end national restaurant groups, all looking to cater the party.
These companies are giving Dallas the kind of attention they've previously lavished on tourist playgrounds like Las Vegas and Miami. In the last two years or so, local outposts have been established by STK, RH, Komodo, La Neta Cocina y Lounge and even Nusr-Et, the Salt Bae steakhouse. Major Food Group opened a Dallas branch of its maximalist-Italian restaurant Carbone last year, and says it has even larger ambitions in the city.
The local rumor mill is humming with speculation about the next potential imports -- names like Joe's Stone Crab from Miami (which said it had no such plan), or Ralph Lauren's Polo Bar (which didn't respond to requests for comment) and Pastis (which said it was in "preliminary talks" about a space) from New York City.
"I have gotten calls from every single restaurant group in the country," said Stephen Summers, whose family owns Highland Park Village. He added: "Every group you can think of, from Los Angeles to New York City to international groups, seems to want to be in Dallas."
The pandemic spurred many Americans to move to places like Miami and San Antonio, where the weather was warmer and Covid restrictions were looser.
No city has benefited from this shift quite like Dallas. From April 2020 to July 2021, the Dallas-Fort Worth area gained about 122,000 new residents, more than any other metro area in the nation, according to Census data. Some demographers predict that by the 2030s, Dallas -- now the largest metropolis in Texas -- could replace Chicago as the third-largest metro area in the nation.
Where will those people go for fun? The Dallas-Fort Worth area has no beaches, mountains or world wonders, but it has about 15,000 places to eat. In 2022, the average Dallas household spent a larger share of its income on dining out than those in New York, Miami or San Francisco, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Like any major city, Dallas has its share of want -- 17.7 percent of its population lives in poverty -- and economic inequality. The area is home to 92,300 millionaires and 18 billionaires, according to a 2022 report from Henley & Partners, a London investment firm, that ranked Dallas the 18th wealthiest city in the world. Several Fortune 500 companies, including AT&T and American Airlines, are headquartered in the area.
"You have no idea the velocity of spending that happens in that market," said Julie Macklowe, the founder of the Macklowe American Single Malt Whiskey, which sells for $ 350 to $ 400 a shot in numerous Dallas restaurants. "It is like the U.S.'s version of Dubai."
These upscale chains cater to the city's ultrawealthy -- and those who want to live like them for an evening. The Las Vegas-based restaurant group Blau + Associates recently opened Crown Block in Dallas's soaring Reunion Tower, where the seafood tower costs $ 230. The place had about 10,000 reservations before it even released a menu.
The three-month-old Dallas branch of La Neta Cocina y Lounge, originally from Las Vegas, offers a $ 95 lobster taco served in a cheese-stuffed tortilla.
Ryan Labbe, who owns the restaurants, has high hopes for Dallas, where -- unlike in Las Vegas -- a meal isn't just a pit stop on the way to a show or a club.
"Dinner in Dallas is your night," he said.
In Dallas, these companies have also found manageable operating costs. There's no state or local income tax. Rents are cheaper and ingredients cost less than in many other major cities, said Matt Winn, a partner in and the chief development officer of the Chicago-based Maple Hospitality Group, which has two Dallas restaurants -- Monarch and Kessaku -- and has plans to open a third, Maple & Ash. It's been easier to hire workers, he said, and to sell extravagant dishes.
At Monarch, "we have a whole king crab that serves eight people and it is $ 1,000," Mr. Winn said. Dallas diners "will show up and spend that."
In a city whose dining scene has often dwelled in the shadow of Houston's diverse cuisines and Austin's array of distinctive independent restaurants, many locals are loving the attention.
"You have two Ritz-Carltons being built here," said George White, a retired I.T. salesman who eats out often. "Things are happening."
But a splashy dining scene isn't necessarily an interesting one, said Brian Reinhart, the restaurant critic at D Magazine, who recently published a list of the city's 50 best restaurants -- and deliberately left the out-of-town chain restaurants off it.
"If we are headed toward a world where the highest-end dining is just as chain-ified as the most basic fast food," he said, "it's going to be harder for Dallas to maintain any sort of distinction or culinary character."
Chain restaurants have historically been part of the city's identity, albeit less expensive ones: Chili's, On the Border Mexican Grill & Cantina and 7-Eleven all got their start here. The proliferation of these businesses hurt the image of the local dining scene, said Mark Masinter, the founder of Open Realty Advisors, which leases real estate to Dallas restaurants.
But in recent years, many of the city's independent restaurants have thrived and drawn national praise. Bon Appétit chose Dallas as its restaurant city of the year in 2019. Other publications have named Petra and the Beast and Roots Southern Table among the country's best. (The Times included Roots in its 2021 list of favorite American restaurants.)
Sam Romano, who runs the local steakhouse Nick & Sam's, said the influx of out-of-town restaurant groups will further raise Dallas's profile. "With restaurants come prestige," he said, citing Major Food Group's decision to open a satellite of Carbone, one of only four in the United States. "That says something about Dallas."
A few years ago, Dallas wasn't even on the radar of the New York restaurateur Eugene Remm. At the encouragement of a colleague, he visited in 2021 and was surprised to find dining rooms that were packed every night of the week.
"If you can find restaurants busy on Mondays and Tuesdays and restaurants in a dense, two-mile radius that can do $ 17 million, $ 22 million, there are no more than 10 markets that can justify that kind of spend on a regular basis," he said. "That makes it special."
Next year, he plans to open a location of Catch, an upscale seafood and steak restaurant, in the city's fast-growing Uptown neighborhood.
He once associated Dallas with "George Bush and cowboy hats," he said, but discovered that it's more like New York. "People are going to members' clubs and have the same Dior store and the same Gucci store and the same everything."
Not every national restaurant group succeeds here. The chef Tom Colicchio closed his Dallas location of Craft in 2012. Il Mulino, an Italian import from New York City, shuttered in 2006 after just two years in business.
Today, Dallas diners are more cosmopolitan, said Candace Nelson, who opened a location of the Sprinkles cupcake shop in 2007, followed by a branch of the Los Angeles restaurant Pizzana in 2022. "They are excited when a concept from their many travels chooses their city to come to."
On a recent Friday night at Carbone, that excitement among guests was palpable. Throughout the evening, customers in stilettos and suits poured out of Cadillac Escalades. Servers in crimson uniforms whizzed around the restaurant with $ 600 bottles of Burgundy and slabs of chocolate cake topped with edible gold.
"The people working here, they call them captains, and they have the outfits," said Nav Singh, who works in real estate and was splurging on a celebration of his birthday at Carbone. "They are putting effort into it. At a mom-and-pop shop, it is maybe white shirt, black pants." Compared with the average Dallas restaurant, he said, "this is more elevated."
But the boom in out-of-town restaurants hasn't come without casualties to the home team.
In 2021, Julian Barsotti, who owned a longtime Dallas restaurant called Carbone's, sued Carbone, claiming copyright infringement. But it was Mr. Barsotti who ended up changing the name of his restaurant, after making a deal with Major Food Group.
"If the name meant that much to them, at the end of the day I was happy to compromise," said Mr. Barsotti, who said he could not disclose the terms of the deal.
Erin Willis, who recently closed her French restaurant, RM 12:20 Bistro, in East Dallas, said the large restaurant groups were partly to blame.
"These big corporate entities that now own all the restaurants, they can pay for more advertising, they have deeper pockets, they are more glitzy," she said. "It puts the small places like myself into the background, and we can't survive."
The outside groups also dilute the city's culinary diversity, she said.
"Dallas has so many ethnic foods to offer, but what the corporate side is doing is bringing so much of the same thing into the metroplex," she said. "There is no variety. It edges out the people who are trying to stay true to their culture."
Teiichi Sakurai runs the downtown Japanese restaurant Tei-An, a short drive from two nationally known sushi places, Nobu and Uchi, that came from other cities. But Mr. Sakurai said his business hasn't been affected by the competition.
"Nobu, they have much more European dishes, using Japanese fish done carpaccio style," he said. "We do handmade soba."
And Dallas diners are loyal, he said. "We have 25 years of regulars." National groups come and go, he said. "They don't remember names."
Regino Rojas, who serves dishes from his native Michoacán, Mexico, at his restaurants, Revolver Taco Lounge and Revolver Gastro Cantina, said upscale chains focus more on curating an atmosphere than on serving unique food. His clientele, he said, is different.
Besides, said Mr. Romano of Nick & Sam's, Dallas is only getting denser and larger, as new developments expand the metro area's footprint. If restaurant groups want to set up shop here, "we have the space and people for them."
Is there such a thing as too many places to eat?
"I don't think there are enough yet," he said.
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph The Dallas branch of La Neta Cocina y Lounge, originally from Las Vegas, offers a $ 95 lobster taco served in a cheese-stuffed tortilla. (D1); The new Dallas luxury dining scene. Top, Sadelle's, a fancy deli from the Major Food Group in New York. Second row, from left: Carbone, also part of the Major Food Group; and Monarch, from the Chicago-based Maple Hospitality Group. Clockwise from bottom left: Monarch, which sells a whole king crab that serves eight for $ 1,000; the Monarch wine room; flaming watermelon shots at La Neta Cocina y Lounge, originally from Las Vegas; the chocolate praline terrine at Carbone; and osetra caviar at Monarch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JerSEAN GOLATT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D8) This article appeared in print on page D1, D8.

Subject: Seafood; Parks & recreation areas; Food; Restaurants; Towns

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: New York City New York; Chicago Illinois; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; Fort Worth Texas; Las Vegas Nevada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/22/dining/dallas-luxury-restaurants.html

Title: Dining's New Boom Town:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 24, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2817899878

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dinings-new-boom-town/docview/2817899878/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dallas Is Dining’s New Boom Town

Author: Krishna, Priya

Publication info: Krishna, Priya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dallas-is-dining-s-new-boom-town/docview/2817839612/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DALLAS — The crowds streaming into Highland Park Village are hungry for luxury. At this open-air shopping center in suburban Dallas, they valet-park their Porsches, sport Yves Saint Laurent handbags, flit in and out of Audemars Piguet and pause for brunch at Sadelle’s, the fancy new deli from Major Food Group in New York.
Sadelle’s has been open for just over a year, and it’s not unusual to find the place packed on a Tuesday afternoon, as well-dressed guests sip mimosas and snack on $18 pigs in a blanket and $85 latkes topped with salmon and osetra caviar. Even the sugar for coffee comes to the table in tiny Le Creuset Dutch ovens.
Dallas has long had a reputation for living large, an image built on oil money and the wide swathes of ranch land displayed on its namesake TV series. But today, the city is enjoying a surge of new development, new residents, new wealth — and a dining scene pumped up by the arrival of several high-end national restaurant groups, all looking to cater the party.
These companies are giving Dallas the kind of attention they’ve previously lavished on tourist playgrounds like Las Vegas and Miami. In the past two years or so, local outposts have been established by STK, RH, Komodo, La Neta Cocina y Lounge and even Nusr-Et, the Salt Bae steakhouse. Major Food Group opened a Dallas branch of its maximalist-Italian restaurant Carbone last year, and says it has even larger ambitions in the city.
The local rumor mill is humming with speculation about the next potential imports — names like Joe’s Stone Crab from Miami (which said it had no such plan), or Ralph Lauren’s Polo Bar (which didn’t respond to requests for comment) and Pastis (which said it was in “preliminary talks” about a space) from New York City.
“I have gotten calls from every single restaurant group in the country,” said Stephen Summers, whose family owns Highland Park Village. He added: “Every group you can think of, from Los Angeles to New York City to international groups, seems to want to be in Dallas.”
The pandemic spurred many Americans to move to places like Miami and San Antonio, where the weather was warmer and COVID restrictions were looser.
No city has benefited from this shift quite like Dallas. From April 2020 to July 2021, the Dallas-Fort Worth area gained about 122,000 new residents, more than any other metro area in the nation, according to Census Bureau data. Some demographers predict that by the 2030s, Dallas — now the largest metropolis in Texas — could replace Chicago as the nation’s third-largest metro area.
Where will those people go for fun? The Dallas-Fort Worth area has no beaches, mountains or world wonders, but it has about 15,000 places to eat. In 2022, the average Dallas household spent a larger share of its income on dining out than those in New York, Miami or San Francisco, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Like any major city, Dallas has its share of want — 17.7% of its population lives in poverty — and economic inequality. The area is home to 92,300 millionaires and 18 billionaires, according to a 2022 report from Henley & Partners, a London investment firm, that ranked Dallas the 18th wealthiest city in the world. Several Fortune 500 companies, including AT&T and American Airlines, have their headquarters in the area.
“You have no idea the velocity of spending that happens in that market,” said Julie Macklowe, the founder of the Macklowe American Single Malt Whiskey, which sells for $350 to $400 a shot in numerous Dallas restaurants. “It is like the U.S.’s version of Dubai.”
These upscale chains cater to the city’s ultrawealthy — and those who want to live like them for an evening. The Las Vegas-based restaurant group Blau + Associates recently opened Crown Block in Dallas’ soaring Reunion Tower, where the seafood tower costs $230. The place had about 10,000 reservations before it even released a menu.
The 3-month-old Dallas branch of La Neta Cocina y Lounge, originally from Las Vegas, offers a $95 lobster taco served in a cheese-stuffed tortilla.
Ryan Labbe, who owns the restaurants, has high hopes for Dallas, where — unlike in Las Vegas — a meal isn’t just a pit stop on the way to a show or a club.
“Dinner in Dallas is your night,” he said.
In Dallas, these companies have also found manageable operating costs. There’s no state or local income tax. Rents are cheaper and ingredients cost less than in many other major cities, said Matt Winn, a partner in and the chief development officer of the Chicago-based Maple Hospitality Group, which has two Dallas restaurants — Monarch and Kessaku — and has plans to open a third. It’s been easier to hire workers, he said, and to sell extravagant dishes.
At Monarch, “we have a whole king crab that serves eight people and it is $1,000,” Winn said. Dallas diners “will show up and spend that.”
In a city whose dining scene has often dwelled in the shadow of Houston’s diverse cuisines and Austin’s array of distinctive independent restaurants, many locals are loving the attention.
“You have two Ritz-Carltons being built here,” said George White, a retired IT salesperson who eats out often. “Things are happening.”
But a splashy dining scene isn’t necessarily an interesting one, said Brian Reinhart, the restaurant critic at D Magazine, who recently published a list of the city’s 50 best restaurants — and deliberately left the out-of-town chain restaurants off it.
“If we are headed toward a world where the highest-end dining is just as chain-ified as the most basic fast food,” he said, “it’s going to be harder for Dallas to maintain any sort of distinction or culinary character.”
Chain restaurants have historically been part of the city’s identity, albeit less expensive ones: Chili’s, On the Border Mexican Grill & Cantina and 7-Eleven all got their start here. The proliferation of these businesses hurt the image of the local dining scene, said Mark Masinter, the founder of Open Realty Advisors, which leases real estate to Dallas restaurants.
But in recent years, many of the city’s independent restaurants have thrived and drawn national praise. Bon Appétit chose Dallas as its restaurant city of the year in 2019. Other publications have named Petra and the Beast and Roots Southern Table among the country’s best. (The New York Times included Roots in its 2021 list of favorite American restaurants.)
Sam Romano, who runs the local steakhouse Nick & Sam’s, said the influx of out-of-town restaurant groups will further raise Dallas’ profile. “With restaurants come prestige,” he said, citing Major Food Group’s decision to open a satellite of Carbone, one of only four in the United States. “That says something about Dallas.”
A few years ago, Dallas wasn’t even on the radar of New York restaurateur Eugene Remm. At the urging of a colleague, he visited in 2021 and was surprised to find dining rooms that were packed nightly.
“If you can find restaurants busy on Mondays and Tuesdays and restaurants in a dense, 2-mile radius that can do $17 million, $22 million, there are no more than 10 markets that can justify that kind of spend on a regular basis,” he said. “That makes it special.”
Next year, he plans to open a location of Catch, an upscale seafood and steak restaurant, in the city’s fast-growing Uptown neighborhood.
He once associated Dallas with “George Bush and cowboy hats,” he said, but discovered that it’s more like New York. “People are going to members’ clubs and have the same Dior store and the same Gucci store and the same everything.”
Not every national restaurant group succeeds here. Chef Tom Colicchio closed his Dallas location of Craft in 2012. Il Mulino, an Italian import from New York City, shuttered in 2006 after just two years in business.
Today, Dallas diners are more cosmopolitan, said Candace Nelson, who opened a Sprinkles cupcake shop in 2007 and a branch of the Los Angeles restaurant Pizzana in 2022. “They are excited when a concept from their many travels chooses their city to come to,” she said.
On a recent Friday night at Carbone, that excitement among guests was palpable. Throughout the evening, customers in stilettos and suits poured out of Cadillac Escalades. Servers in crimson uniforms whizzed around the restaurant with $600 bottles of Burgundy and slabs of chocolate cake topped with edible gold.
“The people working here, they call them captains, and they have the outfits,” said Nav Singh, who works in real estate and was splurging on a celebration of his birthday at Carbone. “They are putting effort into it. At a mom-and-pop shop, it is maybe white shirt, black pants.” Compared with the average Dallas restaurant, he said, “this is more elevated.”
But the boom in out-of-town restaurants hasn’t come without casualties to the home team.
In 2021, Julian Barsotti, who owned a longtime Dallas restaurant called Carbone’s, sued Carbone, claiming copyright infringement. But it was Barsotti who ended up changing the name of his restaurant, after making a deal with Major Food Group.
“If the name meant that much to them, at the end of the day I was happy to compromise,” said Barsotti, who said he could not disclose the terms of the deal.
Erin Willis, who recently closed her French restaurant, RM 12:20 Bistro, in East Dallas, said the large restaurant groups were partly to blame.
“These big corporate entities that now own all the restaurants, they can pay for more advertising, they have deeper pockets, they are more glitzy,” she said. “It puts the small places like myself into the background, and we can’t survive.”
The outside groups also dilute the city’s culinary diversity, she said.
“Dallas has so many ethnic foods to offer, but what the corporate side is doing is bringing so much of the same thing into the metroplex,” she said. “There is no variety. It edges out the people who are trying to stay true to their culture.”
Teiichi Sakurai runs the downtown Japanese restaurant Tei-An, a short drive from two nationally known sushi places, Nobu and Uchi, that came from other cities. But Sakurai said his business hasn’t been affected by the competition.
“Nobu, they have much more European dishes, using Japanese fish done carpaccio style,” he said. “We do handmade soba.”
And Dallas diners are loyal, he said. “We have 25 years of regulars.” National groups come and go, he said, and “they don’t remember names.”
Regino Rojas, who serves dishes from his native Michoacán, Mexico, at his restaurants, Revolver Taco Lounge and Revolver Gastro Cantina, said upscale chains focused more on curating an atmosphere than on serving unique food. His clientele, he said, is different.
Besides, said Romano of Nick & Sam’s, Dallas is only getting denser and larger, as new developments expand the metro area’s footprint. If restaurant groups want to set up shop here, “we have the space and people for them.”
Is there such a thing as too many places to eat?
“I don’t think there are enough yet,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Food; Parks & recreation areas; Seafood; Restaurants; Towns

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York City New York; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; Fort Worth Texas; Las Vegas Nevada

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Houston (Tex); Dallas (Tex); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Highland Park (Los Angeles, Calif); Audemars Piguet Group; Komodo Incorporated; Bon Appetit (Magazine); Restaurants; Subways; Small Business; New York City; Seafood; United States; Census Bureau; Japanese Food (Cuisine); Michoacan (Mexico); International Trade And World Market; 7 Eleven; Fort Worth (Tex); Chefs; Highland Park (Tex); Europe; Neta (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Telephones And Telecommunications; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Census; Parking Garages And Lots; Shopping And Retail; Population; Texas; Names, Geographical; Chili's Restaurants; Los Angeles (Calif); Sam's Italian Restaurant (Dobbs Ferry, Ny, Restaurant); Fashion And Apparel; Shutdowns (Institutional); International Relations; Uniforms; Lifestyle; San Francisco (Calif); Krishna, Priya; Cooking And Cookbooks; Japan; Real Estate (Commercial); Copyrights And Copyright Violations; Gucci; Colicchio, Tom; American Airlines; Crown (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Mexico; Labor And Jobs; Polo Bar (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); San Antonio (Tex); Food Trucks And Vendors; France; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Joe's Stone Crab; Netherlands; Television; At & T Inc; Las Vegas (Nev); Shopping Centers And Malls; Craft (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Austin (Tex); Names, Organizational; Burgundy (France); Italian Food (Cuisine); Sushi; Airlines And Airplanes; Bureau Of Labor Statistics; Chicago (I ll); Salt Bae (Chef); United States Economy; Food; Crown Publishing Group; Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Urban Areas; Fish And Other Marine Life; New York Times; Luxury Goods And Services; Names, Personal; Carbone (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant)

Title: Dallas Is Dining’s New Boom Town

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-24T00:37:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2817839612

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dallas-is-dining-s-new-boom-town/docview/2817839612/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gathering for the Dawn of a New Century 21: [Style Desk]

Author: Grillo, Emma

Publication info: Grillo, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gathering-dawn-new-century-21/docview/2816255233/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The department store reopened in Lower Manhattan less than three years after closing all of its locations. For some, it had felt like an eternity.
About two hours after Century 21 reopened as Century 21 NYC in Lower Manhattan on Tuesday, the store's point-of-sale system crashed.
"This goes to show you that they should have never went out of business," said Denise Danny, 58, from Staten Island. Ms. Danny, who had a shopping cart full of clothes, was standing in a line that had formed at a register on the department store's second floor. "If it's this crowded on the first day of the grand opening, you know the people missed Century 21."
It was less than three years ago when the retailer, which was beloved for offering designer labels at a discount, declared bankruptcy and closed all of its stores, disappearing from the city's shopping map like other fabled department stores including Abraham & Straus and Barneys.
At the time, Century 21 had 13 locations in four states. But arguably, none was as popular as its flagship location on Cortlandt Street in the Financial District, which was opened in 1961 by two cousins, Al Gindi and Samuel Gindi, who was known as Sonny.
After closing in September 2020, the flagship store sat empty because the company, which was then run by the second-generation owners Raymond, IG, Isaac and Eddie Gindi, still had a long-term lease on the space. Later in 2020, the Gindis bought Century 21's intellectual property in a bankruptcy sale with hopes of eventually reviving the business, said Teresa Rodriguez, the vice president of marketing at Century 21 NYC.
Longtime customers may find the new Cortlandt Street store, which occupies four floors, more intimate than its predecessor, which took up seven. They will also notice that with the new name has come a new logo. The store's inventory has changed slightly, too: It now includes vintage bags sourced by Two Authenticators, a new supplier, which finds and authenticates previously owned luxury goods that are sold through retailers like Century 21 NYC.
Before the store opened to the public on Tuesday morning, Mayor Eric Adams gave a speech and made the first purchase of the day: a blue Eton dress shirt for $ 129.99, more than half off its list price of $ 275.
By the time the first customers entered at about 11:30, a line had formed around the entire building. "I've been waiting for this day to come, because I'm a Century shopper, and I've been a Century shopper for many years," said Gina Strachan, 83, from Brooklyn. (Ms. Strachan, like other longtime customers, referred to the store using a shortened version of its name.)
The first floor, which offers fragrances, sunglasses, bags and other accessories, filled up quickly. Many shoppers gravitated toward the center of the floor, where sales associates armed with keys stood by locked display cases full of Louis Vuitton, Saint Laurent and Gucci purses.
By 12:30, lines at the registers had grown longer, and the escalators were crowded. Early arrivals were already on their way out, and some, including Jamz Putra, were empty-handed. Mr. Putra, 27, from Manhattan, had come in search of Balenciaga and Vetements items, with hopes of reselling them for a profit. "I missed this place," Mr. Putra said, adding that even though he hadn't found anything that he could resell, he planned to return.
When the point-of-sale system went down that afternoon around 1:30, confusion erupted as lines got even longer and employees asked people to wait patiently. Security guards closed the store to new customers, and lines started to form outside again. Employees took advantage of the lull, restocking empty racks and rearranging displays that had been knocked over.
By 2:30, the cash registers were fully operational, and shoppers were shuffling in again. On the basement floor, which offers shoes, children's clothes and luggage, a man and a woman piled their purchases into a suitcase before pushing toward the crowded escalators, explaining that they had a plane to catch.
On the first floor, Vladimir Dzuro, 61, from Manhattan, stopped to pose on a small red carpet that had been set up as a place for people to take photos. As another customer snapped his picture, the two had a brief chat about how excited they were that the store had reopened before they headed their separate ways to shop.
Mr. Dzuro said that he and his wife, who are planning to move to the Czech Republic in October after 15 years of living in New York, were happy to be able to shop at Century 21 again before they left the city. He added that they had family members visiting in June and intended to bring them to the store.
While perusing the perfume selection, Anna Evans said her fondness for Century 21 was not only because of its deals. Ms. Evans, 37, from Manhattan, said the store had been a large part of her childhood.
"It's so nostalgic to me," she said. "I've been waiting for years for the reopening."
After a bit of browsing, Ms. Evans said that her impression was that the new store was "not as good" as it had been in the past. But, she added, "I just walked in, so I need some more time."
Photograph At Century 21 NYC, crowds outside, and stuffed arms and baskets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONAH ROSENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8-ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Bankruptcy; Customers

Business indexing term: Subject: Bankruptcy Customers

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/18/style/century-21-nyc-reopening.html

Title: Gathering for the Dawn of a New Century 21:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 21, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New Yo rk Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2816255233

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gathering-dawn-new-century-21/docview/2816255233/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tracing the Runway's Steps All the Way to Cannes: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tracing-runways-steps-all-way-cannes/docview/2814660490/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The next Indiana Jones movie isn't the only big premiere at the Cannes Film Festival. Chopard is unveiling a full couture line, and Versace is showing a Dua Lipa collaboration.
The Cannes Film Festival, which began on May 16 and runs through the 27th, has always turned the Croisette into something of a catwalk, ever since Elizabeth Taylor arrived in her tiara back in 1957. The red carpet premieres and seaside photo ops offer such a bounty of style statements that it's hard to believe the festival hasn't been crowned an honorary fashion week.
This year, however, may be the one to right that wrong. If the Riviera won't come to the runway, the runway will come to the Riviera.
First, the Yves Saint Laurent company will make its producing debut with Pedro Almodóvar's 30-minute short, "A Strange Way of Life," which is the first project of its new film division, Saint Laurent Productions. Then two major fashion premieres will take place on May 23: the unveiling of a ballyhooed see-now-buy-now collaboration between Donatella Versace and Dua Lipa, and a new couture line from the jewelry house Chopard, involving just over 50 looks designed by Caroline Scheufele, its artistic director.
Johnny Depp's re-emergence as the lead of "Jeanne du Barry," the opening film, may have been the most news-making event of the week, but this phenomenon may have the more lasting impact.
Together, the three events blur the lines between film and fashion in a new way, reflecting the power of contemporary celebrity and the splintering of the show system in its ravenous maw. You meet your audience where its attention is. As Ms. Scheufele was happy to explain.
"It's where these dresses belong," she said when asked why she wanted to show her line at Cannes instead of during the regular couture season in Paris. "There are guests walking a red carpet every night. There are black tie dinners every night. And it is when we already have our biggest night."
That biggest night involves a black tie party at the Hotel Martinez, one of the gravitational poles of Cannes, at which Chopard shows its Red Carpet high jewelry collection, a special line of one-off mega-jewels it has created since 2007 specifically to be worn by stars "mounting the steps" of the Palais des Festivals. This year, for example, 16 attendees, including Uma Thurman and Naomi Campbell, wore pieces from the collection during the opening ceremony.
As it happens, the party is just one part of Chopard's long history with Cannes, which stretches back to 1998, when Ms. Scheufele redesigned the Palme d'Or. This year the brand has created eight other awards, along with the Trophée Chopard, a prize for new talent inaugurated in 2001 that effectively gives Chopard first-out-of-the-gate access to stars in the making.
It also means that Ms. Scheufele has something of a captive audience, and market, for her new fashion line, which will be shown alongside the new Red Carpet collection. Indeed, it was designed with the jewels in mind: open necklines, bare shoulders, decoration concentrated below the waist so as not to compete with the stones. (An example of the sort of jewels involved: a ring featuring a 127-carat yellow sapphire.)
"Over the years I have worked with lots of good friends in fashion -- Elie Saab, Zuhair Murad, Dolce & Gabbana, Roberto Cavalli -- and they make beautiful dresses," Ms. Scheufele said. "But couture today involves so many sequins, so much Swarovski, the clothes end up taking attention from what is really the star -- a $ 5 million necklace. They didn't match the jewels."
Her line, entitled Caroline's Couture and created with a design team and ateliers in Milan, Paris and India, is meant to address that issue rather than to make a major fashion statement. And it is a territory marker of sorts.
"All these fashion houses are trying to get into our space," Ms. Scheufele said, a reference to brands like Dior, Chanel, Louis Vuitton and Gucci that have moved into fine jewelry, as well as rumors that Alessandro Michele, the former Gucci designer, was about to sign on as creative director of Bulgari, with an eye to starting a clothing line for the house.
If that's happening, Ms. Scheufele s aid, "Why shouldn't I get into theirs?"
Especially given the potential guest models involved. Like the jewels, the dresses will be available not just to order, but also to borrow for events during the remainder of the festival. The result could be free advertising of the most glamorously insider sort.
That's a strategy echoed by Ms. Versace, whose brand is a regular on the Cannes carpet (see Amal Clooney in 2016 and Bella Hadid in vintage in 2022) and who decided to bring her collaboration with Dua Lipa to Cannes because, she said, "it is a gathering place for the powerful, the creative and the great artists of the industry."
After the decision to hold the last Versace ready-to-wear show in Los Angeles just before the Oscars, Cannes, Ms. Versace said, felt like a natural place to be. "Gianni used to say, 'When a star wears a dress, a little of the stardust rubs off on us,"' she noted.
Versace and Chopard are not the first houses to hold fashion shows during the festival. All the way back in 2000, Victoria's Secret brought its show (and its Angels) to the amfAR benefit, which still involves a charity catwalk presentation. And in 2017 Philipp Plein, the German designer known for his blingtastic showmanship, held his cruise show on the grounds of his 11-bedroom villa overlooking the Côte d'Azur.
Nor is Saint Laurent the first brand to try its hand at moviemaking. (That may have been Swarovski, which created Swarovski Entertainment in 2011.) But together they make a trend -- one that may only grow in the coming years.
Indeed, while Ms. Scheufele said she would consider trying to be part of the couture show schedule come January, she said she would definitely return to Cannes in May 2024. "It's a must, really, to show here," she proclaimed.
Photograph Dua Lipa, above left, and Donatella Versace in 2021. Above right, a piece from Chopard's new fashion line. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCO BERTORELLO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; CHOPARD) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Jewelry; Collaboration; Motion picture directors & producers; Fashion designers; Motion picture festivals

People: Lipa, Dua

Company / organization: Name: Cannes Film Festival; NAICS: 512131, 711320; Name: Gianni Versace SpA; NAICS: 315250, 334519

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/18/style/why-the-catwalk-is-coming-to-cannes.html

Title: Tracing the Runway's Steps All the Way to Cannes:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 18, 2023

column: Unbuttoned

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2814660490

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tracing-runways-steps-all-way-cannes/docview/2814660490/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Russian Elites Still Obtaining Luxury Goods: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Troianovski, Anton; Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Troianovski, Anton; Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russian-elites-still-obtaining-luxury-goods/docview/2813106435/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: More than a year into Vladimir Putin's invasion, the web of global trade has adjusted to Western sanctions, with a network of middlemen sending cars, electronics and more to Russia.
On a dusty roadside on the outskirts of Dubai, Sohrab Fani is profiting from the West's response to the war in Ukraine: his shop installs seat heaters into cars being re-exported to Russia.
Twelve thousand heating pads languished in his warehouse for years, he said, until Russia's invasion and the resulting Western sanctions drove American, European and Japanese automakers out of the Russian market. Now, Russians import those cars via Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates -- and because cars shipped to the Middle East tend to be made for warm climates, accessories shops like Mr. Fani's are doing a brisk business outfitting them for winter weather.
"When the Russians came, I sold out," Mr. Fani said, so he ordered several thousand more seat-heating pads. "In Russia, they have sanctions. Here, there is not. Here, there is business."
More than a year into President Vladimir V. Putin's invasion, Western sanctions have damaged Russia's economy but not crippled it. The web of global trade has adjusted, allowing the Russian leader to largely deliver on a key promise: that the war would not drastically disrupt the lifestyle of consumption for Russian elites.
Russia is still importing coveted Western goods, enabled by a global network of middlemen.
In Moscow, the latest iPhones are available for same-day delivery for less than the retail price in Europe. Department stores still stock Gucci, Prada and Burberry. Car-sales sites list new Land Rovers, Audis and BMWs.
Just about all of the West's leading electronics, automobile and luxury brands announced last year that they were pulling out of Russia. Not all of their goods technically violate sanctions, but commerce with Russia became very difficult in the face of public outrage, pressure from employees, and restrictions on semiconductor exports and financial transactions.
Still, Russian demand for luxury items remains strong, and traders in Dubai and elsewhere are meeting it.
"The wealthy people always stay wealthy," said Ecaterina Condratiuc, the director of communications at a Dubai luxury car showroom who recently shipped a $ 300,000 Porsche Cayenne Turbo GT to a Russian dealership. The war, she added, "did not affect them."
In Dubai, buyers roam the showrooms of a sprawling auto market, haggling for Western cars -- the Dodge Ram is a recent favorite -- to purchase in cash and ship to Russia. Some are wealthy Russians buying vehicles for themselves, or small-time entrepreneurs looking to resell cars for a quick buck.
In other cases, Russian car dealerships, having lost their official affiliations with Western brands, are organizing their own imports, sometimes of hundreds of cars at a time.
The Russian analytics company Autostat reported that such indirect imports accounted for 12 percent of the 626,300 new passenger cars sold in Russia in 2022.
Electronics also take circuitous routes to the Russian market. In Dubai's old commercial neighborhood, Deira, electronics wholesalers have scrambled to recruit Russian-speaking staff.
"It's an open secret thing," said the owner of Bright Zone International General Trading L.L.C., a few storefronts down from a wholesaler of hair extensions. "Competition is very tough right now for Russia."
The owner, who requested that he only be identified by his last name, Tura, said he shipped hundreds of smartphones and laptops into Russia last year ahead of the holiday season. One potential buyer wanted a quote for 15,000 iPhones, Mr. Tura said, but apparently found a better deal elsewhere.
In another electronics shop nearby, an Afghan salesman, Abdullah Ahmadzai, said he had arrived in Dubai less than a year earlier, and had since learned enough Russian to negotiate with his Russian-speaking customers. Across the street, a man from Tajikistan, a former Soviet republic, said he and his colleague quickly found employment in a shop selling phones, laptops and drones.
"All the stores here are looking for people who speak Russian," he said. "We got lucky."
After many Western companies pulled out of Russia, Mr. Putin's government encouraged unauthorized imports of their goods from other countries. The Russian trade ministry published a list of dozens of companies whose products could be imported without their makers' consent, including Apple, Audi, Volvo and Yamaha.
"Whoever wants to bring in whatever luxury goods will be able to do it," Mr. Putin pledged last May.
One Russian report estimated that such "parallel imports" of laptops, tablets and smartphones totaled $ 1.5 billion last year. At the same time, Chinese cars and electronics have flooded onto the Russian market.
"You can bring over whatever you want, as long as you have money," said Pyotr Bakanov, an auto journalist based in Moscow. "Everyone who isn't lazy is bringing cars over."
The new trade routes largely pass through countries that have friendly relations with Moscow. Western analysts and officials have pointed to Turkey, China and former Soviet republics like Armenia and Kazakhstan as countries redirecting Western goods to Russia. They say that the Kremlin is taking advantage of those imports not just to mollify a populace used to foreign phones and cars, but also to source microchips for weapons used against Ukraine.
Mr. Bakanov, like other Russian car bloggers and journalists, has gotten into the business himself: he posts advertisements on the messaging app Telegram, offering to import cars "to order from any part of the world." He said that foreign car parts are also coming in via parallel import -- some are now available in Russia for lower prices than before the war, when those parts were sold by authorized dealers charging high premiums.
The workarounds have become so widespread that Russian car publications run regular reviews of cars made for foreign markets. The multimedia console in the Toyota Camry made for China only operates in Chinese, a popular auto website warned in February; the reviewer suggested holding a smartphone translating app up to the display.
In the Dubai car market one March evening, Sergei Kashkarov sat in the passenger seat of a parked gray Toyota, negotiating his latest deal: sending six Mitsubishi cars to a dealership in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk by ferry and truck, via Iran and Kazakhstan. Mr. Kashkarov had moved to Dubai from Siberia in 2021 and, after the invasion, established himself as a broker connecting Russian car dealers with Dubai suppliers.
"I've got plenty of work," he said. "I'm really not complaining."
The new trade patterns show up in international statistics; car exports from the European Union to Russia, for instance, dropped to about 1 billion euros in 2022, from 5 billion euros in 2021.
But E.U. exports to Kazakhstan rose nearly fourfold, to more than 700 million euros, and exports to the Emirates rose some 40 percent, to 2.4 billion euros. Armenia reports that its car imports more than quintupled to $ 712 million last year.
Western car companies generally deny knowledge of their cars going to Russia in any significant quantities, or of a spike in sales in the Emirates.
"We haven't seen any of that," said Jim Rowan, the chief executive of Volvo.
Paul Jacobson, the chief financial officer of General Motors, said, "I'm not aware of anything going to Russia."
Carmakers would have trouble tracking sales of vehicles through intermediaries, industry officials say. And U.S. officials responsible for enforcing restrictions have focused more on goods that can be used for military purposes.
The United Arab Emirates has been identified as a "country of focus" by U.S. officials for its role as a hub for products shipped to Russia in violation of sanctions. Electronics are of particular concern, officials say, because their chips can be repurposed for military use.
"The U.A.E. has strict measures in place governing import and export permits for dual-use materials to prevent their exploitation for military purposes," an Emirati official said in a statement.
Browsing in Dubai's auto market, a group of three men said they split their time between Russia and Armenia. They refused to say what they did for a living but they described the import and resale of cars as a lucrative side business; one said he had bought around 100 cars in the last year.
"Dubai is a three-in-one," a man who gave his name as Aik quipped. "You go on vacation, you buy a car for yourself, and you buy some to resell."
Anton Troianovski reported from Dubai and Jack Ewing from New York. Reporting was contributed by Vivian Nereim from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Ahmed Al Omran from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Oleg Matsnev from Berlin.
Anton Troianovski reported from Dubai and Jack Ewing from New York. Reporting was contributed by Vivian Nereim from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Ahmed Al Omran from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Oleg Matsnev from Berlin.
Photograph A Russian-speaking sales agent posed for social media content at a car dealership near Dubai, United Arab Emirates, top. Fitting seats with heaters before vehicles are shipped to Russia, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA DICENZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A1, A9.

Subject: Smartphones; Exports; Russian language; Sanctions; International trade; Electronics; Portable computers; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Exports Sanctions International trade Automobile dealers

Location: Riyadh Saudi Arabia; Russia; New York; United States--US; Armenia; Saudi Arabia; Dubai United Arab Emirates; Kazakhstan; China; Ukraine; United Arab Emirates

People: Putin, Vladimir

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/11/world/europe/dubai-russia-cars-export.html

Title: Russian Elites Still Obtaining Luxury Goods:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813106435

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russian-elites-still-obtaining-luxury-goods/docview/2813106435/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

H&M Makes Collaborations Work: [Style Desk]

Author: Testa, Jessica

Publication info: Testa, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/h-amp-m-makes-collaborations-work/docview/2811808147/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: How consumers became obsessed with fashion collaborations, courtesy of the Swedish mall staple.
The year is 2015. The Supreme Court has ruled in favor of same-sex marriage. Negotiations are about to begin on the Paris Climate Accords. Mainstream pop culture is essentially "Hamilton," "Hotline Bling" and true crime docuseries. And Olivier Rousteing is at the H&M store on the Champs-Élysées, where he is starting to feel the pressure of the pandemonium outside. A policeman, he recalled, told him it was unsafe and he should leave.
Mr. Rousteing, the creative director of the French luxury brand Balmain, was making an in-store appearance for the debut of his collaboration with H&M. Just about every year since 2004, the mega-retailer has released at least one collection in partnership with a luxury fashion designer.
Much has changed in fashion in the past 20 years: the power players, the priorities of consumers, the trends and the platforms that amplify those trends. At least one thing hasn't: the frenzy around H&M's high-end designer collaborations.
Modern shopping has been shaped by this frenzy; collaborations have infested the landscape of fashion, from low to high. Just ask anyone swept up in the mess of Yeezy Gap in 2020 or Louis Vuitton and Supreme in 2017, or who has indulged in Dior Birkenstocks or an Hermès Apple Watch. Arguably, it all began with H&M.
Several of H&M's limited-edition collections have sold out within hours. Thousands have lined up outside its stores, sometimes overnight, including resellers looking to flip the sold-out pieces on eBay.
When Balmain's collaboration was released, one shopper in London described the scene as "dangerous" because of all the jostling. But for many fans of Mr. Rousteing, this was their first chance to buy his work -- to dress in the curve-hugging metallics of the "Balmain Army," whose generals have included Beyoncé, Rihanna and Kim Kardashian.
Balmain's dresses typically cost more than $ 1,000, but at H&M, thanks to cheaper materials and production processes, a plunging sequined minidress that seemed to contour the body like celebrities of the era contoured their faces was $ 199. A velvet blazer with strong shoulders and intricate pearl-like embellishments was $ 549, as opposed to $ 3,000; a cotton T-shirt with Balmain's logo was $ 34.99, not $ 395. The ad campaign was shot on a fake subway car, as if to emphasize that this collection was made for people who rode public transportation.
In a recent interview with The New York Times, Mr. Rousteing called the collaboration one of the "top three chapters" of his career. It was a validation to him, he said, proof of his appeal with the public, even to critics who may not have appreciated the young designer's aesthetic.
"It changed my positioning in the fashion industry," said Mr. Rousteing, then 30. "I was still 'the kid' in fashion at the time, and sometimes the press has been really tough on me. When they saw that the clients responded in such a humongous way, I think people started to realize that it was just not fireworks. My clothes, my vision, works."
On Thursday, another designer will take a turn at this right of passage: Casey Cadwallader of Mugler, who has devoted much of his H&M collection to resurrecting archival designs, simplifying Mugler's existing designs, or to making the sexy-alien aesthetic slightly more wearable. (Nipples may get three more centimeters of fabric coverage, for example.) In some cases, he replicated his "greatest hits" almost exactly, only using H&M fabrics and mass-production methods, as with a two-tone cropped denim jacket, priced by Mugler around $ 1,000 and by H&M at $ 299.
"Fashion is here to make people happy," Mr. Cadwallader said. "The more people that the work can reach and make happy, the happier I am."
Karl Did It First
When Karl Lagerfeld became the first designer to collaborate with H&M in 2004, people were in shock, said Shawn Grain Carter, an associate professor of fashion business management at the Fashion Institute of Technology. "Remember, that was the death knell for Halston, when he did a collaboration with J.C. Penney," she said. Because of the collaboration, she noted, Bergdorf Goodman stopped selling Halston.
At the time (1983), the concept of mixing "high" and "low" was not yet in vogue. But at the start of the 21st century, it came to define fashion. The first lady shopped at J. Crew. Bloggers infiltrated the editorial elite, and emerging social media platforms gave rise to new style stars. Before all that, though, the designer Isaac Mizrahi made a splashy debut at Target in 2003. The next year, Mr. Lagerfeld brought his sleek collection to H&M.
According to H&M lore, Mr. Lagerfeld immediately said yes after being approached by Donald Schneider, who later became H&M's artistic director. They knew each other already; Mr. Schneider had worked at French Vogue.
Mr. Lagerfeld's participation signaled to other designers that they could follow suit. The next H&M collaborator was Stella McCartney, who was followed by a wide range of names. For every designer who went in the direction of streetwear (Moschino) and sport (Alexander Wang), others were inspired by deconstruction (Maison Martin Margiela) and the avant-garde (Comme des Garçons).
Ann-Sofie Johansson, the creative adviser at H&M, said the best-selling collaborations have generally been the "more glamorous" ones, versus conceptual collections, like Roberto Cavalli and Balmain.
"I think every designer is a little bit worried," said Ms. Johansson, who has been with H&M for 35 years. "We all always tell them, there's going to be a long queue, you don't have to worry." The designer Alber Elbaz was so concerned that he pulled up in a limousine outside the Fifth Avenue store to spy on the line for his Lanvin collaboration in 2010. He then took selfies and chatted with customers, Ms. Johansson said.
From the designer's perspective, the upsides are clear: H&M offers intense exposure, including press coverage and a robust marketing budget. Prince and Nicki Minaj performed at a party celebrating Versace's collaboration in 2011. Sofia Coppola directed a commercial for Marni's collection in 2012, as did Baz Luhrmann for Erdem in 2017.
It can also be personally lucrative for them. The Times has reported that Stella McCartney and Mr. Lagerfeld were each paid $ 1 million for their collaborations. "And in many cases, beyond that, there's some sort of a royalty or a revenue share on top," said Marc Beckman, whose advertising firm DMA United has brokered fashion collaborations involving Gucci, LeSportsac and the N.B.A. H&M declined to comment on its financial agreements with designers.
Yet some designers, such as Rick Owens, have spoken out against working with fast-fashion companies, citing concerns over waste and disposability -- an image H&M has spent years toiling to shed.
Here, the designers provide an upside to H&M: a "halo effect," Mr. Beckman said.
"Some people will stay interested in the environmental concerns, regardless of these top-tier types of aspirational collaborations," he said. "But a lot of people will look the other way so that they can get a piece of luxury."
Democratization or Dilution?
A decade ago, Jessica Y. Flores waited in line overnight for H&M's Versace collaboration at a store in Midtown Manhattan. She sat on the sidewalk, she said, recalling that it was so cold outside that people took turns warming up inside a nearby pharmacy.
She was there because she'd grown up admiring Versace. "But I am someone who was a first-generation American, and I come from a working-class family," said Ms. Flores, now 36. "Buying high-end luxury to wear was not something that was available to me. I heard about this collection, and I was like: 'Oh, I can buy this."'
Afterward, she posted a video of her haul to her new YouTube channel. Today, she calls herself the "collaboration collection girl of YouTube," having tracked 11 years of explosive growth in the mass-market collaboration landscape. She has made vlogs about buying bags from Fendace, sneakers from Nike and Tiffany and clothes from Target's collections with Victoria Beckham and many more. (She has not received free or discounted clothes from these brands but has occasionally produced sponsored content for other companies.) (While Target's collaboration program has continued since Mr. Mizrahi's days, the company's focus has turned increasingly to emerging designers rather than luxury brands.)
Ms. Flores has seen how collaborations have gone from mass-market efforts at democratization -- a term used by most people interviewed for this story -- to in-house drops led by high-end brands. When Gucci and Balenciaga collaborated with Adidas, for example, the pieces were sold on the luxury brands' platforms and at their prices: $ 850 for a pair of logo-covered Gazelles or pre-worn-down Stan Smiths.
Lately she has noticed some negative comments about the accessibility of Mugler's collaboration. "One of the phrases that keeps coming up, over and over again, is that 'It'll cheapen the brand,"' she said. Complicating matters is Mugler's decision to offer some near-replicas of its core pieces.
"If the silhouette is so similar to the runway collection that you can't distinguish why you would offer it at such a low price point, you are very close to the line," Ms. Grain Carter said -- the line being "the dilution of the brand."
Quality and craftsmanship are what traditionally set low-end and high-end fashion apart. So what happens when H&M sells pieces that closely resemble the high-end versions, and made with more expensive materials than its regular lines?
"I was very much expecting the cheap substitute for every fabric that we normally use," Mr. Cadwallader said of the development process with H&M. But in many cases, he said, the company was using materials similar to his. "It really looks like the real thing."
Still, Ms. Flores is not convinced the "cheapening" conversation she has seen online is anything more than elitism. "Some people do not want the everyday person to have access to the things that they have access to," she said.
As for Thursday, she doesn't know whether she'll try to shop the collaboration. Her favored H&M store in Queens closed last year. And the designs are a little too revealing and body-conscious for her current tastes.
But many signs point to another swift clearing out of every last pair of sheer leggings and all the corset hoodies. Because, as Mr. Beckman said, "H&M just dominates this."
Photograph One item in Donatella Versace's collaboration collection with H&M at Pier 57. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1); Left, the Balmain introduction at the H&M store at Oxford Circus in London in 2015. Above, Donatella Versace with Nicki Minaj, who performed at the introduction of the Versace H&M collaboration at Pier 57 in New York in 2011. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB STOTHARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Clockwise from top left: Karl Lagerfeld clothes at H&M on Fifth Avenue in 2004; H&M collaboration items; previewing an H&M-Mugler collaboration in April; and a Balmain-H&M collaboration illustration. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA ALPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MATTEO PRANDONI/BFA VIA H&M) (D5) This article appeared in print on page D1, D5.

Subject: Fashion; Design; Collaboration; Logos; Democratization; Trends; Fashion designers; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Social networks

People: McCartney, Stella

Company / organization: Name: Balmain; NAICS: 541490; Name: Gianni Versace SpA; NAICS: 315250, 334519

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/11/style/fast-fashion-h-and-m-why-are-all-those-people-outside-hm-again.html

Title: H & M Makes Collaborations Work:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 11, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811808147

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/h-amp-m-makes-collaborations-work/docview/2811808147/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Spending On Luxury Up in China: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth; Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth; Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/spending-on-luxury-up-china/docview/2810767860/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The end of pandemic-era restrictions has unleashed a luxury spending rebound in China. Which Western brands are coming out on top?
This time last year, Shanghai -- China's capital of fashion and luxury -- was in the throes of a ruthlessly enforced Covid lockdown. The city's glittering high-end malls and avenues lined with flagship stores stood practically empty.
Today it is a different story. Huge crowds on a recent weekend flocked to top retail destinations on or near Nanjing Road, the hub of glamour in China ever since the country's first large department stores began to open there in 1917.
"I splurge more extravagantly," Sunny Zhang, 24, said as she waited in line to enter the Chanel store at Plaza 66 mall, where the corridors are lined with shops selling some of the world's most expensive apparel. Ms. Zhang, who works for a consulting firm, used to buy six handbags a year. Now, she purchases up to five handbags a month.
"I change my handbag every day," Ms Zhang added. "I felt that everything was meaningless during the Shanghai lockdown, so we should enjoy the present moment in time."
Many Western fashion and luxury brands have been reaping the benefits of this renewed consumer mind-set. Last month, LVMH, the world's largest luxury goods group by sales, and the owner of brands like Louis Vuitton, Tiffany & Company and Dior, posted a 17 percent increase in first-quarter revenue from a year earlier. Fashion and leather goods -- the French company's biggest division -- were up 18 percent, driven in large part by the rebound in China.
Last week, LVMH shares soared to a record high, making it the first European company to surpass $ 500 billion in market value. Its French rival Hermès said sales in Asia (excluding Japan) were up 23 percent in the first quarter, "driven by a very good Chinese New Year."
And Brunello Cucinelli, purveyor of $ 4,000 blazers and the "quiet luxury" trend, posted a 56 percent surge in first-quarter sales. Luca Lisandroni, the Italian brand's co-chief executive, called 2023 "a golden year" for the China market.
Luxury spending in China is bouncing back even faster than the country's overall economy. Retail sales of jewelry, gold and silver soared 37.4 percent in March from a year earlier, more than three times as fast as the rebound in overall retail sales, according to China's National Bureau of Statistics. It was by far the biggest March on record for jewelry sales in China; indeed, March was the industry's second-highest sales month ever outside the gift-giving season before Chinese New Year.
"We expect China to be the luxury industry's key growth engine this year, especially given a slight deceleration in other core markets like the U.S. and Korea," Edouard Aubin, an equity analyst at Morgan Stanley, said on a call last week.
He added that big brands "at the top of the pricing pyramid" with status-symbol value like Chanel, Hermès and Louis Vuitton were outperforming rivals. Those include Gucci and Burberry, both brands that have recently had a change of designer at their helm.
"Much of the initial spend driving the rebound is, for now, less to do with the middle class of China and more to do with rich people spending more," Mr. Aubin said, noting that he expected a resurgence in middle-class spending to kick in later this year.
This desire for big-name luxury in China isn't new. For more than a decade, the country, with 1.4 billion consumers, powered the Western luxury market, contributing as much as a third of market revenue. Two-thirds of that spending took place outside mainland China, as Chinese tourists flocked to Hong Kong, Tokyo, Paris and elsewhere to avoid their country's steep import tariffs and consumption taxes.
But then came 2020, the worst year on record for the industry, as China closed its borders in response to the pandemic. Now, after three years of relying largely on online purchases, many shoppers in China exult in being able to touch fabrics, try on handbags and sunglasses and simply share companionship with others.
In the Zhang Yuan neighborhood, where heavily restored buildings have polished wood frames and elegant stone columns, a crowd gathered and waited outside the Dior store to watch for celebrities. The onlookers did not have to wait long: Annie Yi, the famous Taiwanese singer, walked out of the store accompanied by a young woman who carried a white Dior bag big enough to hold a flat-panel television.
Zoe Zhou, who was at the Dior store looking for a handbag owned by a member of the K-pop band Blackpink, said she had seen a frenzy to buy luxury goods in her home city, Nanjing, with people lining up outside of stores at downtown malls.
"Now that restrictions have been lifted, there are a lot of people buying handbags," said Ms. Zhou, who was disappointed that the bag she wanted was sold out. "You can also go abroad. The price difference between domestic and foreign countries is quite large."
Many luxury brands have raised prices in recent months, notably in China. But traveling outside China remains far more difficult than it was before the pandemic.
Airfares are higher, with a significantly reduced overseas flight schedule. As part of a national security campaign, the Chinese government has made it harder to obtain or renew passports.
As domestic destinations like the duty-free tropical island of Hainan continue to gain popularity, and retail hot spots like Chengdu and Hangzhou continue to emerge, the pivot by Chinese shoppers to buying more domestically is expected to continue. Social media posts about stock shortages and long lines have also become common.
"The domestic recovery may be well underway, but international travel is still far from pre-Covid levels, nor do we think Chinese tourists will be returning at the volumes they once did to Europe any time soon," said Thomas Chauvet, head of luxury goods research at Citi. Short-haul destinations like Hong Kong, Macau and possibly Japan, given the weak Japanese yen, may see the return of Chinese spending sooner, he added.
Not everyone has been coming out on top. Muted quarterly results last week from Kering, the home of Gucci and Balenciaga, reminded investors that a rising tide in China won't necessarily lift all brands. The Paris-based group's revenue grew 1 percent in the first three months of 2023, hampered by a slowdown in its U.S. and wholesale business, the dwindling popularity of Gucci and continuing fallout from a controversial advertising campaign published by Balenciaga at the end of last year.
According to Antoine Belge, an analyst at BNP Paribas Exane, "Strong brands with serious brand desirability are getting stronger."
"Being bigger helps," he added.
The same goes for luxury markets. Claudia D'Arpizio, a senior partner at the consultancy Bain, estimated that the population of middle- and high-income consumers in mainland China will double to 500 million by 2030. By then, she predicted, the country will account for around 40 percent of global luxury purchases.
"While African and Southeast Asian countries might be emerging luxury markets," Ms. D'Arpizio said, "the sheer size of the China luxury market makes it unique and of great strategic importance."
Li You contributed research.
Li You contributed research.
Photograph Above, a line at the Dior store at Plaza 66 in Shanghai last month; and, at right, holding a purchase at another upscale shopping center in the city. "We expect China to be the luxury industry's key growth engine this year," said Edouard Aubin, an equity analyst at Morgan Stanley. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Jewelry; Consumers; Handbags & purses; Pandemics; Retail sales; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers

Location: China; United States--US; Japan; Hong Kong China

Company / organization: Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490; Name: Morgan Stanley; NAICS: 523150, 523920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/02/business/china-luxury-spending.html

Title: Spending On Luxury Up in China:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810767860

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/spending-on-luxury-up-china/docview/2810767860/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In China, It’s Time to Splurge Again, and the Luxury Industry Is Relieved

Author: Paton, Elizabeth; Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth; Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-time-splurge-again-luxury-industry-is/docview/2810662228/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
This time last year, Shanghai — China’s capital of fashion and luxury — was in the throes of a ruthlessly enforced COVID lockdown. The city’s glittering high-end malls and avenues lined with flagship stores stood practically empty.
Today it is a different story. Huge crowds on a recent weekend flocked to top retail destinations on or near Nanjing Road, the hub of glamour in China ever since the country’s first large department stores began to open there in 1917.
“I splurge more extravagantly,” Sunny Zhang, 24, said as she waited in line to enter the Chanel store at Plaza 66 mall, where the corridors are lined with shops selling some of the world’s most expensive apparel. Zhang, who works for a consulting firm, used to buy six handbags a year. Now she purchases up to five handbags a month.
“I change my handbag every day,” Zhang added. “I felt that everything was meaningless during the Shanghai lockdown, so we should enjoy the present moment in time.”
Many Western fashion and luxury brands have been reaping the benefits of this renewed consumer mindset. Last month, LVMH — the world’s largest luxury goods group by sales, and the owner of brands like Louis Vuitton, Tiffany & Co. and Dior — posted a 17% increase in first-quarter revenue from a year earlier. Fashion and leather goods — the French company’s biggest division — were up 18%, driven in large part by the rebound in China.
Last week, LVMH shares soared to a record high, making it the first European company to surpass $500 billion in market value. Its French rival Hermès said sales in Asia (excluding Japan) were up 23% in the first quarter, “driven by a very good Chinese New Year.”
And Brunello Cucinelli, purveyor of $4,000 blazers and the “quiet luxury” trend, posted a 56% surge in first-quarter sales. Luca Lisandroni, the Italian brand’s co-CEO, called 2023 “a golden year” for the China market.
Luxury spending in China is bouncing back even faster than the country’s overall economy. Retail sales of jewelry, gold and silver soared 37.4% in March from a year earlier, more than three times as fast as the rebound in overall retail sales, according to China’s National Bureau of Statistics. It was by far the biggest March on record for jewelry sales in China; indeed, March was the industry’s second-highest sales month ever outside the gift-giving season before Chinese New Year.
“We expect China to be the luxury industry’s key growth engine this year, especially given a slight deceleration in other core markets like the U.S. and Korea,” Edouard Aubin, an equity analyst at Morgan Stanley, said on a call last week.
He added that big brands “at the top of the pricing pyramid” with status symbol value like Chanel, Hermès and Louis Vuitton were outperforming rivals. Those include Gucci and Burberry, both brands that have recently had a change of designer at their helm.
“Much of the initial spend driving the rebound is, for now, less to do with the middle class of China and more to do with rich people spending more,” Aubin said, noting that he expected a resurgence in middle-class spending to kick in later this year.
This desire for big-name luxury in China isn’t new. For more than a decade, the country, with 1.4 billion consumers, powered the Western luxury market, contributing as much as one-third of market revenue. Two-thirds of that spending took place outside mainland China, as Chinese tourists flocked to Hong Kong, Tokyo, Paris and elsewhere to avoid their country’s steep import tariffs and consumption taxes.
But then came 2020, the worst year on record for the industry, as China closed its borders in response to the pandemic. Now, after three years of relying largely on online purchases, many shoppers in China exult in being able to touch fabrics, try on handbags and sunglasses and simply share companionship with others.
In the Zhang Yuan neighborhood, where heavily restored buildings have polished wood frames and elegant stone columns, a crowd gathered and waited outside the Dior store to watch for celebrities. The onlookers did not have to wait long: Annie Yi, the famous Taiwanese singer, walked out of the store accompanied by a young woman who carried a white Dior bag big enough to hold a flat-panel television.
Zoe Zhou, who was at the Dior store looking for a handbag owned by a member of the K-pop band Blackpink, said she had seen a frenzy to buy luxury goods in her home city, Nanjing, with people lining up outside stores at downtown malls.
“Now that restrictions have been lifted, there are a lot of people buying handbags,” said Zhou, who was disappointed that the bag she wanted was sold out. “You can also go abroad. The price difference between domestic and foreign countries is quite large.”
Many luxury brands have raised prices in recent months, notably in China. But traveling outside China remains far more difficult than it was before the pandemic.
Airfares are higher, with a significantly reduced overseas flight schedule. As part of a national security campaign, the Chinese government has made it harder to obtain or renew passports.
As domestic destinations like the duty-free tropical island of Hainan continue to gain popularity, and retail hot spots like Chengdu and Hangzhou continue to emerge, the pivot by Chinese shoppers to buying more domestically is expected to continue. Social media posts about stock shortages and long lines have also become common.
“The domestic recovery may be well underway, but international travel is still far from pre-COVID levels, nor do we think Chinese tourists will be returning at the volumes they once did to Europe anytime soon,” said Thomas Chauvet, head of luxury goods research at Citi. Short-haul destinations like Hong Kong, Macao and possibly Japan, given the weak Japanese yen, may see the return of Chinese spending sooner, he added.
Not everyone has been coming out on top. Muted quarterly results last week from Kering, the home of Gucci and Balenciaga, reminded investors that a rising tide in China won’t necessarily lift all brands. The Paris-based group’s revenue grew 1% in the first three months of 2023, hampered by a slowdown in its U.S. and wholesale business, the dwindling popularity of Gucci and continuing fallout from a controversial advertising campaign published by Balenciaga at the end of last year.
According to Antoine Belge, an analyst at BNP Paribas Exane, “Strong brands with serious brand desirability are getting stronger.”
“Being bigger helps,” he added.
The same goes for luxury markets. Claudia D’Arpizio, a senior partner at the consultancy Bain, estimated that the population of middle- and high-income consumers in mainland China will double to 500 million by 2030. By then, she predicted, the country will account for around 40% of global luxury purchases.
“While African and Southeast Asian countries might be emerging luxury markets,” D’Arpizio said, “the sheer size of the China luxury market makes it unique and of great strategic importance.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Consumers; Pandemics; Jewelry; Shopping; Handbags & purses; Retail sales; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers

Location: New York; United States--US; China; Japan; Hong Kong China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490

Identifier / keyword: Hangzhou (China); Bnp Paribas; Taiwan; New Year; Drivers Education; Polls And Public Opinion; United States International Relations; Tokyo (Japan); Blackpink (Music Group); Balenciaga (Fashion Label); Chengdu (China); United States; Lvmh Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton Sa; Li Ning Company Ltd; Company Reports; International Trade And World Market; Burberry; Elections; Politics And Government; Restoration And Renovation; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Hainan Island (China); Quarantines; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Europe; Cucinelli, Brunello; Gold; Shopping And Retail; Jewels And Jewelry; Citigroup Inc; Handbags And Purses; Shanghai (China); Macau; Christian Dior Sa; Foreign Investments; National Bureau Of Statistics (China); Kering Sa; Fashion And Apparel; International Relations; Paris (France); Tiffany & Company; K Pop; Louis Vuitton; East Asia; Japan; Lunar New Year; Real Estate (Commercial); Pop And Rock Music; Nanjing (China); Gucci; Zhang Yuan; Africa; Morgan Stanley; France; Bradsher, Keith; Shopping Centers And Malls; Business; Hermes International Sa; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Paribas; Hong Kong; Luxury Goods And Services; Disease Rates

Title: In China, It’s Time to Splurge Again, and the Luxury Industry Is Relieved

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-07T23:09:32Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810662228

Document URL: htt ps://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-s-time-splurge-again-luxury-industry-is/docview/2810662228/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Creativity Reigns Inside and Out: [Style Desk]

Author: Grillo, Emma

Publication info: Grillo, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creativity-reigns-inside-out/docview/2810282456/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Gucci opened shop in the meatpacking district, while socialites and philanthropists donned their best hats for a fund-raiser in Central Park.
The saying goes that April showers bring May flowers, and guests downtown broke out their chicest rain gear, while hats -- and not for the Kentucky Derby or coronation -- could be seen for miles at a luncheon in Central Park.
To celebrate the opening of Gucci's new boutique in the meatpacking district, the brand partnered with Amy Sacco, the nightlife impresario behind the now-shuttered Bungalow 8 nightclubs, and threw a party on April 29 reminiscent of the neighborhood's heyday as a clubbing destination. Celebrities, influencers, musicians and even a few self-proclaimed former club kids snacked on Jell-O shots while Disco, the longtime bouncer at Bungalow 8, worked the door. From 11:30 p.m. to about 12:30 a.m., Idris Elba, fresh off his set at Coachella, D.J.-ed.
A few days later, the Central Park Conservancy Women's Committee threw its 41st annual Frederick Law Olmsted Awards luncheon on May 3 under a tent in the park's Conservatory Garden. Philanthropists, socialites and even former Mayor Michael Bloomberg -- who posed for pictures hatless -- gathered at 11 a.m. for the "hat lunch," dressed in their best florals and headpieces. Attendees admired one another over a lunch of cucumber salmon salad, while Jenny Price, the president of the Women's Committee, announced that the event had raised $ 4.3 million, which would go toward supporting and maintaining the park.
Central Park Conservancy
"I feel like we can mix in a pattern and color, also a little bit of creativity. You don't need money. You can create your outfit and make this world a better place, also save the environment." -- Andrew Yu
"I really wanted to showcase a little bit of Black talent. That's the hat and the pants. And I feel like that's what's anchoring my outfit." -- Darice Fadeyi
"Honestly, I wear birds every year. So it's just something I really find fun and whimsical." -- Hana Warner Bitton
"It's fun, it's a wonderful party. I think people love to get dressed up, and it doesn't happen very often. And this is the opportunity to do it." -- Betsy Smith
Gucci Bungalow
"I really did dress for comfort, like big clothes. I saw somewhere in some fashion blogs that you know, I was bringing baggy pants back. I was like, I'm not bringing them back, they're just comfortable. But I feel like when you're D.J.-ing, you're sweating, you're moving around, it's nice to have that fluidity." -- Idris Elba
"I am wearing the first Gucci outfit I picked up in my closet, after writing on my couch all day to meet my deadline for the writers' strike." -- Jeremy O. Harris
"It's raining in New York. I'm from Vancouver so I had to come prepared for the rain. I don't understand how people are here in open-toed shoes. I came in rain boots." -- Blake Abbie
Photograph Brittany Byrd at the Gucci party.; Alexander Roth (left), Tanner Reese, Eric Jess and JonBoy at the Gucci party.; Darice Fadeyi at the Frederick Law Olmsted awards luncheon.; Melissa Press at the Olmsted awards luncheon.; Mary Bryant McCourt at the Olmsted awards luncheon.; Andrew Yu at the Olmsted awards luncheon.; Suzy Buckley Woodward (left), Carol Iacovelli and Alexa Wolman at the Olmsted awards luncheon.; Alioune Fall at the Gucci party.; Blake Abbie's JW Anderson shoes at the Gucci party.; Yelena Fauerman at the Olmsted awards luncheon.; Jessica Wang at the Gucci party. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (OLMSTEAD AWARDS LUNCHEON); JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (GUCCI PARTY)) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Mayors; Parks & recreation areas; Strikes

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes

People: Olmsted, Frederick Law (1822-1903); Elba, Idris

Company / organization: Name: Central Park Conservancy; NAICS: 813312

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/05/style/downtown-clubbing-with-phoebe-bridgers-and-uptown-ladies-adorned-in-hats.html

Title: Creativity Reigns Inside and Out:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810282456

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creativity-reigns-inside-out/docview/2810282456/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At a Transylvania Guesthouse, Anyone Can Live Like a King. (Well, One Specific King.): [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Segal, David

Publication info: Segal, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-transylvania-guesthouse-anyone-can-live-like/docview/2810023182/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There isn't a front desk or even a lobby at the Prince of Wales Guesthouse, a trio of rustic buildings beside a 350-year-old village in Zalán Valley in Transylvania. Check-ins are handled in the communal dining room and den where a woman, who is the cook, hands over an antique key. It will open the door to one of seven rooms, all of which look as though they were furnished with a Romanian edition of House Beautiful, circa 1740. The only contemporary touches are electric kettles, radiators and bottled water.
It's the royal treatment, King Charles-style.
On Saturday, the English monarch will be crowned with all the bunting and pageantry that has made the British royal family peerless masters in the fine art of pomp, with festivities that begin with a processional from Buckingham Palace.
That is only the most famous of the king's residences. He bestrides a real estate empire worth $ 25 billion, according to Forbes, a portfolio that includes 56 cottages, 12 homes and seven palaces. The guesthouse is far from the most luxurious, but it offers this singular distinction: For about $ 200 a night, meals included, commoners are graciously welcomed.
The king has owned this property since 2008, and he vacations here for a week nearly every May, bringing along friends and a retinue of security. It's a quiet corner of the world where time seems to have stopped about a couple centuries ago, and the king has often described it as one of his favorites. Which suggests that the man in the middle of what will be the planet's splashiest shindig this weekend far prefers the stillness and privacy he finds about 1,500 miles away from London, on unpaved roads and rugged woods near the Carpathian Mountains.
And while guests who visit here shouldn't expect to meet the latest Windsor to ascend to the throne -- when he's present, the place is booked -- they can wander around the same premises and explore the same verdant meadows. Those who nab what is still called the Prince's Room can also sleep in the same bed.
King Charles has rhapsodized about the charms of Romania for decades. "There is a sense of age-old continuity here," he explained in a story last year in The Spectator. "A virtuous circle where man and nature are in balance." He's also explained this affinity as a matter of heritage. He is related, he says, to Vlad the Impaler, the one-time ruler of Wallachia, a region to the south, and the inspiration for Bram Stoker's "Dracula."
"Transylvania is in my blood," he quipped during a 2011 television interview. A variety of sources, including a British tabloid and the Romanian Tour Store website have backed him up on this, asserting that he is Vlad's great-grandson, 16 times removed.
More definitively, the king is related to Countess Claudine Rhédey von Kis-Rhéde, who was born in Transylvania and is a great-great grandmother of Queen Elizabeth II.
Still, the king's fondness for this area is more about forests than family. Green spaces and old villages in the United Kingdom tend to be posher and more manicured, said Count Tibor Kalnoky, the 56-year-old Romanian aristocrat who oversaw the renovation of the guesthouse and who, when he isn't working as a veterinarian, helps keep the place running.
"In England, it's more like a stage; it's more artificial," he said in an interview. "You can find a Gucci bag in a village in the Cotswolds, but there won't be much muck around anymore -- or chickens walking in the street, which we have here. It's the difference between Disneyland and the real thing."
Mr. Kalnoky, who is tall, urbane and fluent in five languages, was raised in exile in Paris, where his family resided after Communists took over Romania. He speaks with an unplaceable pan-European accent and seems ready to be amused by nearly everything -- with one exception. As a count from Transylvania, he would like to cordially invite everyone to spare him the Dracula jokes. He's never heard one that's funny.
"Always terrible," he said. "Always a cliché."
Best to leave the Dracula gags to the count because he has included a pretty good one in the guesthouse. Every room comes with a bulb of garlic nailed above the inside of the door, a wink at the infamous neck biter's most acute food allergy.
The story of how King Charles came to own a guesthouse in Romania starts with one of Mr. Kalnoky's ancestors. In the 16th century, Bálint Kalnoky was the first documented owner of the Zalán Valley, and about 100 years later a series of houses was built for glassblowers at a nearby glass factory. That factory has long since vanished from what is today the right-next-door village of Zalánpatak, population 94.
The Prince of Wales began visiting Romania in the late 1990s. An earlier home in the historic village of Viscri attracted swarms of tourists, The BBC reported. He and the count, who is a relative, are friends, and when the then-prince asked for help finding a more secluded Romanian getaway, the count had an idea.
"As he was describing his dream house, I realized that I might know that very house," he recalled. They walked 11 miles from the count's home in Miclosoara to what was then a group of buildings badly in need of a thorough renovation.
"When we arrived, I said, 'Will this do?' and he said 'That is exactly what I had in mind."'
The refurbishment started with one building and then expanded to include two more as the number of guests invited by the prince grew. It remains far from polished. (The word "authentic" gets prominent play on the guesthouse's website.) Even the few contemporary touches could use a tweak. During a recent weekend stay in what is called the Dwarf's Room -- probably because the entrance to the bathroom is, for some reason, about four feet high -- the heat was either off, and the room freezing, or on, and the room a sweatbox.
There are a handful of images of the king scattered here and there, and the Prince's Room has a photograph of his mother as a young woman. This is hardly a shrine, however, and anyone seeking the thrill of walking in the monarch's footsteps has more convenient options. A flight from London to Bucharest is more than three hours long, and the drive to Zalánpatak is another three and a half hours, some of it on unpaved roads.
Profits from operations here go to the Prince of Wales Foundation in Romania, which supports educational programming and skills training. But the guesthouse is not exactly a money machine, as the count put it. The coronavirus pandemic had a devastating impact, and because Romania shares a border with Ukraine, plenty of people are put off by its relative proximity to the war with Russia, even though the nearest Ukrainian town is more than 200 miles away.
"It crossed our minds, but it didn't put us off, obviously," said Charlotte Cotton, a 54-year-old Briton who was visiting one recent weekend with her sister, brother and mother. The family thinks highly of the new king, though he wasn't the reason they trekked all the way from England. They wanted untrammeled nature, and they found it in every direction they walked.
"You can be in Scotland and feel like you're on your own, but then you hit a road or you find a car park or a footpath with a sign on it," said Ben Stephens, Ms. Cotton's brother.
"Whereas here, you don't see any other sign of human life," Ms. Cotton continued. "No telephone poles, no cars. You don't even hear airplanes. We didn't see human tracks. We saw bear prints."
Other than nature walks and meals -- there are 10 different menus, including a variety of goulashes -- activities are fairly limited. For about $ 65, there is the add-on option of a picnic and ride in a cart pulled by two horses, an employee at the reins.
One recent afternoon, the driver steered the horses for 40 minutes, then stopped and put a grate over a small fire pit. Lunch was roast rack of lamb with an Asian-style marinade, prawn tacos with pineapple salsa and a strawberry ginger trifle. Wait, those are the official coronation dishes that the public is being urged to cook. This meal was a slab of medium-well pork with a side of more pork, and mushrooms. In a nearby field, a shepherd tended to about 100 loudly bleating sheep.
The ride back went through the adjacent village, where people were tending to their yards or chasing down chickens. Without the cars and tractors, this collection of houses would have appeared at least 100 years old. Along the hamlet's lone dirt road there is an Orthodox chapel and a Catholic church, as well as a store that opens whenever someone rings the front door bell. Just about every house has a barking dog, pets that double as bear-warning devices.
Most residents out on a recent Wednesday afternoon said they had seen or met King Charles during his visits over the years. They had waved hello when he walked down the road and occasionally exchanged a few words.
"He's very kind, very friendly," said Ibolya Préda, who is 87 and has lived in this village her entire life. "He shook everyone's hand."
A few villagers described the then-prince inviting dozens of them to the guesthouse where he oversaw grass-cutting competitions, a centuries-old tradition in Transylvania involving scythes and a lot of frenetic arm sweeping. People were divided into six-person teams.
"This guy says he was on the team that won," said Abigél Préda, Ms. Ibolya's granddaughter, who helped with translations during a walk. She was talking over a fence to a middle-age man smoking a cigarette. He said the prize for him and his team had been eating a plate of tokány -- a dish in the goulash family -- near the prince, though not exactly with the prince.
"He said that the prince had armed guards around him," Ms. Préda said. "But they could talk to him."
The consensus was that King Charles had done little to alter life in the village, which didn't seem to bother anyone here. The place might leave more lasting impressions on its visitors, many of whom have scribbled glowing reviews in a guest book with the prince's name on it. Even critics of the royals, it seems, are won over.
"Prince Charles, regrettably we remain republican," wrote one family from London, using the British term for those who want to abolish the monarchy. "But we compliment your excellent taste."
Photograph King Charles III vacations nearly every year in Transylvania's Zalán Valley, where he owns a property. Above, the house where he sleeps during his stays. (B1); The rooms at King Charles III's guesthouse are available for visitors, who can even sleep in the same bed he uses in what is still called the Prince's Room. Right, the king's desk. Every room comes with a bulb of garlic nailed by the door.; The king's property in Romania is a three-and-a-half-hour drive from Bucharest, some of it on unpaved roads. For about $ 65, visitors can ride in a cart pulled by two horses to a picnic. Bottom, a worker at the property preparing an outdoor table for guests. Residents of the adjacent village say Charles has done little to alter life there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREEA CAMPEANU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Meals; Houses

Location: Wales; England; Romania; United Kingdom--UK

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/01/business/king-charles-romania-guest-house.html

Title: At a Transylvania Guesthouse, Anyone Can Live Like a King. (Well, One Specific King.):   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810023182

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-transylvania-guesthouse-anyone-can-live-like/docview/2810023182/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Transylvania, Anyone With $200 Can Live Like a King. (Well, One Specific King.)

Author: Segal, David

Publication info: Segal, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/transylvania-anyone-with-200-can-live-like-king/docview/2810017851/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
ZALÁNPATEK, Romania — There isn’t a front desk or even a lobby at the Prince of Wales Guesthouse, a trio of rustic buildings beside a 350-year-old village in Zalán Valley in Transylvania. Check-ins are handled in the communal dining room and den where a woman, who is the cook, hands over an antique key. It will open the door to one of seven rooms, all of which look as if they were furnished with a Romanian edition of House Beautiful, circa 1740. The only contemporary touches are electric kettles, radiators and bottled water.
It’s the royal treatment, King Charles-style.
On Saturday, the English monarch will be crowned with all the bunting and pageantry that has made the British royal family peerless masters in the fine art of pomp, with festivities that begin with a processional from Buckingham Palace.
That is only the most famous of the king’s residences. He bestrides a real estate empire worth $25 billion, according to Forbes, a portfolio that includes 56 cottages, 12 homes and seven palaces. The guesthouse is far from the most luxurious, but it offers this singular distinction: For about $200 a night, meals included, commoners are graciously welcomed.
The king has owned this property since 2008, and he vacations here for a week nearly every May, bringing along friends and a retinue of security. It’s a quiet corner of the world where time seems to have stopped about a couple centuries ago, and the king has often described it as one of his favorites. Which suggests that the man in the middle of what will be the planet’s splashiest shindig this weekend far prefers the stillness and privacy he finds about 1,500 miles away from London, on unpaved roads and rugged woods near the Carpathian Mountains.
And while guests who visit here shouldn’t expect to meet the latest Windsor to ascend to the throne — when he’s present, the place is booked — they can wander around the same premises and explore the same verdant meadows. Those who nab what is still called the Prince’s Room can also sleep in the same bed.
Charles has rhapsodized about the charms of Romania for decades. “There is a sense of age-old continuity here,” he explained in a story last year in The Spectator. “A virtuous circle where man and nature are in balance.” He’s also explained this affinity as a matter of heritage. He is related, he says, to Vlad the Impaler, the one-time ruler of Walachia, a region to the south, and the inspiration for Bram Stoker’s “Dracula.”
“Transylvania is in my blood,” he quipped during a 2011 television interview. A variety of sources, including a British tabloid and the Romanian Tour Store website have backed him up on this, asserting that he is Vlad’s great-grandson, 16 times removed.
More definitively, the king is related to Countess Claudine Rhédey von Kis-Rhéde, who was born in Transylvania and is a great-great-grandmother of Queen Elizabeth II.
Still, the king’s fondness for this area is more about forests than family. Green spaces and old villages in the United Kingdom tend to be posher and more manicured, said Count Tibor Kalnoky, the 56-year-old Romanian aristocrat who oversaw the renovation of the guesthouse and who, when he isn’t working as a veterinarian, helps keep the place running.
“In England, it’s more like a stage; it’s more artificial,” he said in an interview. “You can find a Gucci bag in a village in the Cotswolds, but there won’t be much muck around anymore — or chickens walking in the street, which we have here. It’s the difference between Disneyland and the real thing.”
Kalnoky, who is tall, urbane and fluent in five languages, was raised in exile in Paris, where his family resided after communists took over Romania. He speaks with an unplaceable pan-European accent and seems ready to be amused by nearly everything — with one exception. As a count from Transylvania, he would like to cordially invite everyone to spare him the Dracula jokes. He’s never heard one that’s funny.
“Always terrible,” he said. “Always a cliché.”
Best to leave the Dracula gags to the count, because he has included a pretty good one in the guesthouse. Every room comes with a bulb of garlic nailed above the inside of the door, a wink at the infamous neck biter’s most acute food allergy.
The story of how King Charles came to own a guesthouse in Romania starts with one of Kalnoky’s ancestors. In the 16th century, Bálint Kalnoky was the first documented owner of the Zalán Valley, and about 100 years later a series of houses was built for glassblowers at a nearby glass factory. That factory has long since vanished from what is today the right-next-door village of Zalánpatak, population 94.
The Prince of Wales began visiting Romania in the late 1990s. An earlier home in the historic village of Viscri attracted swarms of tourists, The BBC reported. He and the count, who is a relative, are friends, and when the then-prince asked for help finding a more secluded Romanian getaway, the count had an idea.
“As he was describing his dream house, I realized that I might know that very house,” he recalled. They walked 11 miles from the count’s home in Miclosoara to what was then a group of buildings badly in need of a thorough renovation.
“When we arrived, I said, ‘Will this do?’ and he said ‘That is exactly what I had in mind.’”
The refurbishment started with one building and then expanded to include two more as the number of guests invited by the prince grew. It remains far from polished. (The word “authentic” gets prominent play on the guesthouse’s website.) Even the few contemporary touches could use a tweak. During a recent weekend stay in what is called the Dwarf’s Room — probably because the entrance to the bathroom is, for some reason, about four feet high — the heat was either off, and the room freezing, or on, and the room a sweatbox.
There are a handful of images of the king scattered here and there, and the Prince’s Room has a photograph of his mother as a young woman. This is hardly a shrine, however, and anyone seeking the thrill of walking in the monarch’s footsteps has more convenient options. A flight from London to Bucharest is more than three hours, and the drive to Zalánpatak is another 3 1/2 hours, some of it on unpaved roads.
Profits from operations here go to the Prince of Wales Foundation in Romania, which supports educational programming and skills training. But the guesthouse is not exactly a money machine, as the count put it. The coronavirus pandemic had a devastating impact, and because Romania shares a border with Ukraine, plenty of people are put off by its relative proximity to the war with Russia, even though the nearest Ukrainian town is more than 200 miles away.
“It crossed our minds, but it didn’t put us off, obviously,” said Charlotte Cotton, a 54-year-old Briton who was visiting one recent weekend with her sister, brother and mother. The family thinks highly of the new king, though he wasn’t the reason they trekked all the way from England. They wanted untrammeled nature, and they found it in every direction they walked.
“You can be in Scotland and feel like you’re on your own, but then you hit a road or you find a car park or a footpath with a sign on it,” said Ben Stephens, Cotton’s brother.
“Whereas here, you don’t see any other sign of human life,” Cotton continued. “No telephone poles, no cars. You don’t even hear airplanes. We didn’t see human tracks. We saw bear prints.”
Other than nature walks and meals — there are 10 different menus, including a variety of goulashes — activities are fairly limited. For about $65, there is the add-on option of a picnic and ride in a cart pulled by two horses, an employee at the reins.
One recent afternoon, the driver steered the horses for 40 minutes, then stopped and put a grate over a small fire pit. Lunch was roast rack of lamb with an Asian-style marinade, prawn tacos with pineapple salsa and a strawberry ginger trifle. Wait, those are the official coronation dishes that the public is being urged to cook. This meal was a slab of medium-well pork with a side of more pork, and mushrooms. In a nearby field, a shepherd tended to about 100 loudly bleating sheep.
The ride back went through the adjacent village, where people were tending to their yards or chasing down chickens. Without the cars and tractors, this collection of houses would have appeared at least 100 years old. Along the hamlet’s lone dirt road there is an Orthodox chapel and a Catholic church, as well as a store that opens whenever someone rings the front doorbell. Just about every house has a barking dog, pets that double as bear-warning devices.
Most residents out on a recent Wednesday afternoon said they had seen or met Charles during his visits over the years. They had waved hello when he walked down the road and occasionally exchanged a few words.
“He’s very kind, very friendly,” said Ibolya Préda, who is 87 and has lived in this village her entire life. “He shook everyone’s hand.”
A few villagers described the then-prince inviting dozens of them to the guesthouse where he oversaw grass-cutting competitions, a centuries-old tradition in Transylvania involving scythes and a lot of frenetic arm sweeping. People were divided into six-person teams.
“This guy says he was on the team that won,” said Abigél Préda, Ibolya’s granddaughter, who helped with translations during a walk. She was talking over a fence to a middle-age man smoking a cigarette. He said the prize for him and his team had been eating a plate of tokány — a dish in the goulash family — near the prince, though not exactly with the prince.
“He said that the prince had armed guards around him,” Abigél Préda said. “But they could talk to him.”
The consensus was that Charles had done little to alter life in the village, which didn’t seem to bother anyone here. The place might leave more lasting impressions on its visitors, many of whom have scribbled glowing reviews in a guest book with the prince’s name on it. Even critics of the royals, it seems, are won over.
“Prince Charles, regrettably we remain republican,” wrote one family from London, using the British term for those who want to abolish the monarchy. “But we compliment your excellent taste.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Meals; Houses; Dining rooms

Location: Wales; England; Romania; United Kingdom--UK

Identifier / keyword: House Of Representatives; Great Britain; Pepin, Claudine; England; Roman Catholic Church; International Relations; Factories And Manufacturing; British Broadcasting Corp; Water; Cotswolds (England); Elizabeth Ii, Queen Of Great Britain; Ukraine; Chickens; London (England); House Beautiful; Antiques; Forbes Magazine; Politics And Government; Segal, David; Automobiles; Buckingham Palace; Windsor (England); Europe; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Carpathian Mountains; Charles, Prince Of Wales; Senses And Sensation; World; Radiators; Transylvania (Romania); Stoker, Bram; Romania; Cotton, Charlotte (1970 ); Historic Buildings And Sites; Collectors And Collections; Royal Families; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Vampires; Bucharest (Romania); Russia; Television; The Spectator (Magazine); Scotland; Southern States (Us)

Title: In Transylvania, Anyone With $200 Can Live Like a King. (Well, One Specific King.)

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-05T23:20:14Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810017851

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspaper s/transylvania-anyone-with-200-can-live-like-king/docview/2810017851/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Red Carpet Sprinkled With Easter Eggs: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/red-carpet-sprinkled-with-easter-eggs/docview/2808814732/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Karl Lagerfeld was famous for not holding back. So what would he have said about the looks worn in his (and his cat's) honor?
What would Karl have thought? Watching the stream of Lagerfeld-a-likes mount the steps of the Met Monday night in their black and white, it was hard not to wonder.
Yes, the evening's dress code dictated "in honor of Karl," the evening itself in honor of the opening of the Costume Institute exhibition dedicated to the designer's work. Yes, Mr. Lagerfeld had made himself into a caricature, with his uniform of black jeans, high white-collared shirt, black jacket, fingerless gloves, black silk cravats and black shades. And yes, the gala itself often feels like high-fashion cosplay, with guests trying to outdo one another in the attention-getting sweepstakes.
But Mr. Lagerfeld, who attended the party seven times and was a co-host once, in 2005 when the subject was Chanel, was also a man who had no truck with looking back, and who once announced, "I don't want to see all those old dresses" when asked about an earlier retrospective of his work. And this was a gala full of old dresses. (A positive change, for once, from all the one-offs of the past.)
Vintage was everywhere: a mint green Chanel from 1988 on Penélope Cruz, a co-host, and a white Chanel princess dress from 1992 on Dua Lipa, another co-host; a corseted 1993 Chanel on Margot Robbie and a pink and silver 2010 Chanel column dress on Naomi Campbell; even Nicole Kidman reprising the feathered Chanel she wore in a 2004 ad campaign for the brand. Also old Chloé: a remade violin dress, originally designed by Mr. Lagerfeld in 1983, on Olivia Wilde and a remade shower dress from the same collection, revived for Vanessa Kirby.
And Fendi, courtesy of Lila Moss Hack in 2018 couture -- "vintage" being a fungible term these days -- and Suki Waterhouse in a floral dress from the spring 2019 collection. (Watching the red carpet felt a bit like a treasure hunt through fashion history: Guess the season!) That's recycling for ya.
What was striking was how good all of it looked. In some ways, dedicating the evening's dress code to Mr. Lagerfeld was an opportunity for a reset, an opening for attendees to eschew the temptation to the ridiculous and embrace a return to elegance.
The designer did, after all, believe in making an effort. (He once derided sweatpants as "a sign of defeat.") And a lot of guests did. In comparison to recent galas such as "Camp" and "Heavenly Bodies," the kitsch element was notably understated.
There were some obvious exceptions, of course, most notably the Choupette avatars: Jared Leto, in full white Birman costume (he later changed into a black suit and cape); Doja Cat in a pearl-and-feathered Oscar de la Renta cat gown and facial prosthetics; Lil Nas X in pearl-covered silver body art and G-string.
But compared with the plethora of calmer bouclés -- even the striptease by Janelle Monáe in an enormous Thom Browne tweed coat on a pyramid-shaped superstructure that was peeled off by a set of helpers to reveal a sequined bikini, and Anne Hathaway's safety-pinned Versace-does-tweed -- they looked a little desperate. (To be fair, Mr. Lagerfeld, who once built a supermarket in the Grand Palais, appreciated a viral statement as much as anyone and probably would have been amused.)
Even Kim Kardashian, in ropes of Schiaparelli pearls at her neck and waist atop a flesh-toned corset, seemed out of place, as if she was trying too hard. This despite the fact that the pearls were a clear reference to Mr. Lagerfeld's Chanel, and his fashion-changing facility with a brand signature, and showed up again and again in more toned-down looks on other guests. See, for example, Lizzo's black pearl-strung Chanel and the ropes of nacre around Taika Waititi's gray silk Prabal Gurung tuxedo coat.
Indeed, the carpet was full of not-so-hidden Lagerfeld references, like the high collar of Julia Garner's white satin Gucci halter-neck gown and Cardi B's black patent leather camellia-festooned frock from Chen Peng Studio, which came with its own shirt and tie. Not to mention the gloves, shades and tie pin worn by Ke Huy Quan in Dior Men; the white trompe l'oeil shirt and tie of Stephanie Hsu's sequined Valentino gown; and the "Choupette blue" of James Corden's Brioni tux (so-named by Mr. Lagerfeld in honor of his cat's eyes).
Then there was the quilted handbag carried by Olivier Rousteing of Balmain, with "Karl Who?" scrawled on the side. It was a nod to a tote bag once carried by the designer, who had a relatively healthy sense of humor about his own absurdity. Mr. Lagerfeld probably would have appreciated the stair-sweeping cape Mr. Rousteing designed for Jeremy Pope with an enormous Lagerfeld likeness at the hem. He did, after all, put his face on a T-shirt for H&M for their collaboration. He liked the idea of being an apparition.
Still, of all the Lagerfeld gestures on view, perhaps none was more genuinely Lagerfeldian than Rihanna's arrival just after 10 p.m., a point in the evening when some guests were already leaving the party. In her camellia-covered Valentino cocoon and white baby-bump-embracing gown, she swept in on the arm of ASAP Rocky, who was himself wearing Gucci jeans and kilt à la an outfit worn by Mr. Lagerfeld for a runway bow at a 2004 Chanel show. Mr. Lagerfeld was, of course, perennially late for everything. Often by hours.
He, of all people, would have applauded the entrance.
Photograph Rihanna arrived late, in a camellia-covered Valentino cocoon. (D4); From left, Jeremy Pope's cape honored Karl Lagerfeld, while Margot Robbie paid tribute with a vintage Chanel gown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NINA WESTERVELT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) This article appeared in print on page D4, D5.

Subject: Clothing; Dress codes

Business indexing term: Subject: Dress codes

People: Robbie, Margot; Lagerfeld, Karl

Company / organization: Name: Karl Lagerfeld; NAICS: 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/02/style/met-gala-fashion.html

Title: A Red Carpet Sprinkled With Easter Eggs:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 4, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2808814732

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/red-carpet-sprinkled-with-easter-eggs/docview/2808814732/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Looking Locally: [SpecialSections]

Author: Janofsky, Michael

Publication info: Janofsky, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-locally/docview/2807592723/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A combination of the Covid pandemic and changing demographics has led them to expand their visions and horizons.
This article is part of our Museums special section about how art institutions are reaching out to new artists and attracting new audiences.
TEMPE, Ariz. -- A cigar store Indian "princess" stands alone in a corner here at the Arizona State University Art Museum, gazing toward gallery walls, not the viewer. Ten miles away, the Phoenix Art Museum is preparing a rare show of the Cuban contemporary artist Juan Francisco Elso. The Baltimore Museum of Art recently opened an expansive multimedia exhibit celebrating 50 years of hip-hop. The Plains Art Museum in North Dakota is honoring an Indigenous tribe.
While these shows would appear unrelated, they all reflect a realization among museums around the country that visitors want to see more than just paintings by American and European artists, most of them white, most of them male and many of them dead. As metropolitan areas grow in racial, ethnic and cultural diversity, museums are increasingly adding exhibitions to attract a wider audience by showing a broader array of artists and explaining why their work is worth appreciating.
"There is a widespread effort by museums of all types, particularly smaller museums, to increase their audiences, both in the number of people and the racial and ethnic diversity," said Laura Lott, chief executive of the American Alliance of Museums. "They recognize that there are people in many cases who haven't felt included."
Improving attendance is hardly a new concept, but the effort has accelerated since the pandemic reduced museum hours and kept visitors away. The pressure is especially acute for museums that operate without a steady stream of out-of-area visitors, prompting them to reach for local residents, including those who haven't seen their culture reflected in the art.
"It's harder for museums to keep reinventing reasons for local people to come back," Ms. Lott said. "But it does allow them to dig deeper on their exhibitions and push the envelope a bit more to continuously stay relevant."
And it's not just smaller museums that are digging deeper. The same social and economic pressures are pushing some of the nation's destination museums to change, mindful that new strategies are essential to return visitation to pre-Covid levels.
"We've definitely had to lean on our local communities," said Jeremy Mikolajczak, director and chief executive of the Phoenix Museum of Art, the largest in the American Southwest. "Through the pandemic, we've all learned how important they are. It's not necessarily about bringing in the blockbuster but how we are supporting these communities."
And so museums are shifting gears -- seeking artists of different backgrounds, arranging works in new thematic groupings, reinterpreting pieces they already own, or, in the case of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the one institution that has something for everyone, highlighting amenities.
The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, hard hit by a triple whammy of Covid, inflation and troubles in the tech industry, has embarked on what the director, Christopher Bedford, calls a "seismic shift" to increase its audience. Underway is a multiyear plan to add new voices to museum leadership and reimagine a vast collection that "in all its glory," he said, "is 98 percent white male."
The goal? "Putting diversity, equity and inclusion at the core of every decision while not relinquishing a drive toward revenue and attendance."
As an example, he cited a planned repositioning of Gerhard Richter's majestic "Stadtbild Madrid," a 1968 oil prominent in a gallery of Richter's work. Viewed up close, it looks like random blotches of blacks and grays; from farther back, the tones fall into a well-articulated aerial view of an urban landscape.
"You would no longer see that gallery of exclusively Richter paintings from 1968," he said. "What you would see is a view of 1968, local to global, all media, with an emphasis on diversity at the core."
The Phoenix museum displays Asian works, Geoffrey Beene couture, Arizona landscapes, American abstracts from early last century, old masters and the occasional Picasso and Warhol. But in a city with a large Latino population, it is devoting several galleries to the Elso exhibition, which opens May 6 after a five-month run at El Museo del Barrio in Manhattan.
Curated by Olga Viso, it includes Elso sculptures and works on paper from the 1980s that reflect his interest in Afro-Cuban and ancient Indigenous cultures. Nearby will be pieces from the Arizona State University Art Museum by Elso contemporaries, who explored some of the same ideas, and other works from the Phoenix Art Museum on themes of migration.
The show was organized, in part, to engage more of the 43 percent of Phoenix's 1.7 million people who are Latino, numbers likely to grow with the steady influx of immigrants. Since late 2021, nearly 700,000 people have crossed into Arizona from Central and South America and the Caribbean, including 110,000 from Cuba, according to the U.S. Border Patrol.
The Arizona State museum takes on a "disruption in the desert mentality," said its director, Miki Garcia. It's a strategy embodied in a current exhibition, "Making Visible," which honors Native cultures of the Southwest by exploding popular myths about the American West. Doing so, she said, helps comfort visitors who recognize misconceptions portrayed in some of the art displayed. The Indian "princess" is typical.
Sculpted in the late 1890s by Samuel Anderson Robb of New York, it causes the viewer to contemplate its unusual positioning.
"It was important for the curatorial team to understand the work as continuing to perpetuate harmful representations," said Ninabah Winton, a curator at the museum. "As a monolithic depiction, the 'princess' would historically have stood as a visual symbol for tobacco, reducing Indigenous peoples to a singular motif, a mental image that still stands."
"Also," she pointed out, "princesses don't exist within Indigenous communities."
In Baltimore, a city with a majority Black population, "The Culture: Hip Hop and Contemporary Art in the 21st Century," which runs through July 16, is a natural fit with the art museum's growing collection of work by African American artists. But it comes with a twist, confirming how hip-hop culture has influenced contemporary visual artists. It includes stars like Mark Bradford, Julie Mehretu and Carrie Mae Weems along with works by local artists, a hat worn by Pharrell Williams, a tribute to Nike sneakers and clothing made for the rappers Lil' Kim, Dapper Dan and Gucci Mane.
"What we're trying to do is continue to shift the needle in terms of what kinds of voices are valued and how knowledge is produced," said the museum's director, Asma Naeem. "I know they are two abstract things. But by including voices of the community, by showing that knowledge is flowing from our community members into this museum, we're hoping that will bring in more of our neighbors."
The show was organized with the St. Louis Art Museum, where it opens on Aug. 25.
The Baltimore museum and the Mississippi Museum of Art in Jackson, another predominantly Black city, collaborated to bring together 12 Black artists with family ties to the Deep South, including Mr. Bradford and Ms. Weems, to create "A Movement in Every Direction: Legacies of the Great Migration." Each artist explored the experience of leaving for another part of the country through the 1970s, an overall shift of more than six million African Americans.
After runs in Baltimore, Jackson and its current home, the Brooklyn Museum through June 25, it will travel to the California Museum of African American Art in Los Angeles, opening Aug. 5.
In Mississippi, the exhibit ran for five months and helped the museum regain attendance lost to the pandemic, said Betsy Bradley, the director.
"We're still building back up to those levels of attendance," she said. "But certainly, 'the Great Migration' brought a regional audience as well as a local audience that was more inclusive and diverse than those we had in the past."
Kehinde Wiley, whose vibrant portrait of President Barack Obama hangs in Washington's National Portrait Gallery, is helping several other museums rebuild their audiences. His "Saint John the Baptist II," a huge canvas of a contemporary Black figure, hangs among much older paintings by European artists at the Nasher Museum in Durham, N.C. The deYoung Museum in San Francisco is currently showing a large exhibition of his paintings and sculptures that includes searing representations of systemic violence against Black people. On a recent Sunday afternoon, the galleries were packed.
An exhibit of modern Native American art from the 1940s through the 1970s began a six-city tour last year at the Cahoon Museum of American Art in Cotuit, Mass., on Cape Cod, minutes from a community of Wampanoag. Organized by the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe, N.M., the exhibit is currently at the Westmoreland Museum of American Art in Greensburg, Pa.
"We were definitely looking for opportunities to be more inclusive," said Sarah Johnson, the Cahoon Museum's executive director, adding that a current exhibit, "Wampum: Stories from the Shells of Native America," had helped triple attendance over a comparable period last year.
The Plains Art Museum in Fargo, N.D., and the Philbrook Museum of Art in Tulsa, Okla., each has an exhibition by an artist with a connection to the region.
The Plains features work by the Native American artist Gerald Cournoyer exploring lifestyles of the Lakota people; it continues through September. The Philbrook is showing portraits by Robert Peterson, a prominent Black artist from Lawton, Okla. That exhibit runs through June 11 and includes a painting of the author Ernest J. Gaines that inspired a U.S. Postal Service stamp.
Then there's the Met, with an entirely different approach. As out-of-town tourism returns, museum officials are concentrating on luring back pandemic-weary tri-state residents who have been working at home more and wandering New York City less.
"The focus is on the experience, not the exhibitions," said Ken Weine, the Met's chief communications office and senior vice president, including Date Nights, extended weekend hours and discounted drinks. "If you're a New Yorker, there are many indignities we've all endured. Certainly, it's been a very tough few years. So come, get off your couch and stop streaming. Enjoy the city."
And, of course, the art.
Photograph Above, "Making Visible," an exhibition at the Arizona State University Art Museum, honors Native cultures and challenges popular myths about the American West. Left, a cigar store Indian "princess" sculpted in the 1890s, part of the show, faces gallery walls, not viewers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASH PONDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Below, an installation view of "The Culture: Hip Hop and Contemporary Art in the 21st Century" at the Baltimore Museum of Art with works by, from far left, Monica Ikegwu, Michael Vasquez and Megan Lewis. Below left, "Live Culture Force 1's" (2022) by Aaron Fowler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MITRO HOOD/BMA; THE WESTMORELAND MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART) This article appeared in print on page F4.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; African Americans; Audiences; Museum exhibits; Great Migration (1916-1970); Pandemics; Art exhibits; Community; Visual artists; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Border patrol; COVID-19; Painting

Location: Baltimore Maryland; United States--US; Arizona; Mississippi; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: Phoenix Art Museum; NAICS: 712110; Name: Arizona State University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/25/arts/design/museums-local-growth.html

Title: Looking Locally:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 30, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2807592723

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-locally/docview/2807592723/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gucci Raid Is the Latest Act in the E.U.'s Growing Antitrust Scrutiny of Fashion: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Paton, Elizabeth

Publication info: Paton, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gucci-raid-is-latest-act-e-u-s-growing-antitrust/docview/2803755798/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Kering, Gucci's parent company, said it was "cooperating" with European Union regulators, who searched the Italian offices of the fashion house this week.
Between staging glossy runway shows and dressing stars for the red carpet, Gucci is a company accustomed to the glare of the spotlight. This week, however, that attention might have felt less comfortable after its Italian offices were raided by European Union antitrust officials.
The unannounced inspection was the latest in a series of regulatory actions, as antitrust officials ratchet up scrutiny of the fashion industry over possible anticompetitive practices.
In March, the European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, carried out investigations into several beauty and fragrance companies linked to the supply of fragrance ingredients.
Last year, some fashion houses were raided in connection with sustainability targets developed by the industry, including changes in sales periods and discounting strategies that regulators later deemed potential violations of competition law.
Pierre Cardin and the German clothing maker Ahlers have faced scrutiny over licensing and distribution deals that may have breached rules on cross-border sales.
The attention intensified after a period of "relative calm," Greenberg Traurig, a law firm, said in a note. The firm added that the raids underscored the European Commission's increasing focus on enforcement in the fashion sector after the coronavirus pandemic and urged companies to review business practices to "ensure they are not running afoul of E.U. antitrust and anti-competition regulations."
Kering, Gucci's parent company, said on Wednesday that it was "cooperating" with regulators. The commission said in a statement a day earlier that it was looking into the activities of multiple fashion companies based in several member states and that it had also sent requests for information to other undisclosed brands.
"The commission has concerns that the companies concerned may have violated E.U. antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices including certain horizontal and vertical restrictions," it said.
Penalties for companies could include fines of up to 10 percent of their global sales.
Photograph l Kering, Gucci's parent company, said it was cooperating with European Union regulators after a search of its offices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSIA PIERDOMENICO/BLOOMBERG) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Fines & penalties; Fashion; Antitrust

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust

Company / organization: Name: European Commission; NAICS: 928120; Name: European Union; NAICS: 926110, 928120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/20/business/dealbook/gucci-raid-antitrust.html

Title: Gucci Raid Is the Latest Act in the E.U.'s Growing Antitrust Scrutiny of Fashion:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 21, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2803755798

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gucci-raid-is-latest-act-e-u-s-growing-antitrust/docview/2803755798/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2801857015/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Is it possible to wear shorts to work? I have seen chic Parisiennes of all ages wearing "city" walking shorts with and without a cuff, creased and uncreased. I think they would look good in an office setting as well as the street, but I also worry that they don't seem professional. Can you be taken seriously in shorts? If so, what shorts are best?
-- Susan, Pittsburgh With global warming comes the revision of all sorts of dress codes. When it is very hot, the idea of wearing long pants becomes increasingly unappealing, for both men and women. Yet, the idea of shorts in the office can also seem ... well, unseemly.
After all, the term itself is short for "short pants," which were historically what children wore to delineate their immature status. In adulthood, shorts are largely associated with out-of-office time, be it sports, summer or just schlubbing around the house. When I hear "shorts," I think of high school months spent in denim cutoffs, of D.I.Y. house-painting and garden planting in cargo styles, of hiking and running. I also think of Bermuda shorts, culottes and the preppy tradition. What I do not think of that much, I admit, is work.
There is a reason, when we are talking about people in charge, we say, "They wear the pants." No one says, "They wear the shorts."
Yet shorts are increasingly a fashion item. This season they made appearances on the runways of Givenchy (distressed, cargo), Tom Ford (very short and athletic), Gucci (long, floral), Hermès (tailored, wide) and Isabel Marant (festival-y).
When it comes to women's wear, there is no practical difference between long shorts and a shorter skirt. The difference lies in conventions and the subconscious associations colleagues may have with shorts. Which means that the issue is really less can you wear shorts to work than how do you wear shorts to work.
The stylist Tina Chai said to stay away from denim, distressing and anything hovering above mid-thigh and to opt instead for what she calls "set dressing" (effectively a synonym for "suit"). Think about "pairing shorts with a men's wear tropical wool blazer or a colorful tweed jacket," she said.
Jackets offset the associations about shorts for both women and men, though men also have to overcome prejudices about the male leg, which in its bare and hairy state is often considered inappropriate for the office.
The designer Thom Browne has worn tailored gray shorts for more than a decade. He even wore them during the recent Adidas court case -- which he won. So draw your own conclusions. Peter Do, a designer who showed shorts for both men and women on his spring 2023 runway, said: "They can definitely be worn in the workplace, but I would suggest a pair that are at least knee length, if not right above the knee. I would go with sharply tailored shorts, perhaps with front pleats, and straight or slightly A-line -- nothing too wide."
All of which is to say: Yes, you can wear shorts in the workplace but not without some consideration aforethought. You may ultimately be exposing more than just your knees.
Every week in the Open Thread newsletter, The Times's chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, answers a reader's fashion-related question. Sign up at nytimes.com/newsletters.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Women

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/16/pageoneplus/17a3_help_openthead.html

Title: Here to Help; Vanessa Friedman Answers Your Style Questions:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801857015

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-vanessa-friedman-answers-your-style/docview/2801857015/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A National Guard Airman With Limited Responsibilities and a Lot of Access: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis

Publication info: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/national-guard-airman-with-limited/docview/2801437275/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jack Teixeira grew up in a family with strong military ties, was quiet and somewhat awkward in high school and seemed, to some, unnervingly obsessed with war and guns.
For his high school senior yearbook, Jack Teixeira got to pick a quote to appear below the photo showing him smiling in a green hoodie. His choice: "Actions speak louder than words."
On Friday, Mr. Teixeira, the 21-year-old airman in the Massachusetts Air National Guard, was charged with two counts under the Espionage Act because, federal prosecutors say, his actions caused harm to the country he had devoted himself to serving. He did not enter a plea.
They said he repeatedly shared classified documents on the internet through a gaming group he belonged to that focused on war, guns, and sometimes, racist and antisemitic memes. It was a remarkable turnabout for a young man who grew up with a passion for the military and weapons -- at times to an unnerving extent, some who knew him said.
Airman Teixeira grew up in a family with strong military ties in Dighton, Mass., a town of about 8,000 people near the Massachusetts-Rhode Island border that retains a distinctly rural character, with tractors in backyards, fresh eggs for sale in roadside honor boxes and old stone walls rambling through woods. It is also reliably conservative.
The Teixeira home sits at the end of a long, densely treed lot, where Airman Teixeira's mother runs a home floral business. His stepfather retired as a master sergeant from the same Air Force intelligence unit where Airman Teixeira worked, headquartered on a base on nearby Cape Cod. He also has a stepbrother in the Air Force, according to a profile for the brother on LinkedIn.
Close to two dozen people who knew Airman Teixeira when he was in high school did not respond to interview requests or declined to comment. But several former classmates at Dighton-Rehoboth Regional High School remembered him as a quiet and somewhat awkward teenager who sometimes wore camouflage and boots to school.
Kailani Reis, 20, a high school classmate in Airman Teixeira's graduating class, said that as a student, the airman expressed his interest in weapons often enough that she and some other students found it "unsettling" and avoided him. She said few of the former classmates she knew were surprised when he was arrested.
She did not recall that he talked politics but said he spoke often about joining the military and on occasion told teachers who encouraged him that he did not plan on going to college.
He even skipped his high school graduation in 2020 to report to basic training in the Air Force at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas.
"Congratulations to my son Jack Teixeira who was not able to attend the ceremony," his mother posted on Facebook at the time. "It's too bad they didn't mention his name at some point."
In the Air Force, Airman Teixeira became a low-level computer tech at Otis Air National Guard Base in Sandwich, Mass., where his mother said he worked nights, helping maintain secure networks. There, he had broad access to a secure facility where he could access a global network of classified material from the military and 17 other American intelligence agencies.
Authorities say that Mr. Teixeira eventually leaked dozens of documents containing potentially harmful details about the war in Ukraine and other sensitive national security topics.
That a 21-year-old with so little authority could have access to a such a vast trove of top secret information might surprise the general public, but people who have worked in the intelligence world say untold thousands of troops and government civilians have access to top secret materials, including many young, inexperienced workers the military relies on to process the monumental amount of intelligence it collects.
Those workers can log onto the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System -- essentially a highly classified version of Google -- and in milliseconds pull up briefings on Ukraine, China or nearly any other sensitive subject that the U.S. government collects intelligence on.
Though his motivations may be different, Mr. Teixeira is remarkably similar to two other high-profile leakers in recent years, Chelsea Manning and Reality Winner, said Javed Ali, a former senior U.S. counterterrorism official who held intelligence roles at the F.B.I., the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Department of Homeland Security.
Ms. Manning was a 23-year-old Army intelligence analyst who was convicted in 2013 of giving more than 700,000 classified documents to WikiLeaks. Ms. Winner was a 26-year-old former Air Force linguist working as a military contractor who in 2017 printed out a classified report on Russian hacking, hid it in her pantyhose, and gave it to The Intercept.
Unlike Ms. Manning and Ms. Winner, who came to be seen as whistle-blowers motivated by ideology, Airman Teixeira did not appear to be driven by government policies, according to people who knew him online.
But all three were relatively young and had security clearances that were the classified intelligence equivalent of having the keys to dad's red convertible.
"Clearly their relatively young age is a common factor, and I would hope the intelligence community is thinking about that," said Bennett Miller, a retired Air Force intelligence analyst. "The problem is that the community needs these people. It can't work without them."
The words "top secret" may conjure images of pristine vaults and retinal scanners, Mr. Miller said, but in reality, while some highly classified material is siloed in special access programs, most of the rest is accessible to thousands of ordinary people who have security clearances. And security can be surprisingly lax.
Often, these systems are basically just a bunch of computers on a desk and there is "nothing really stopping anyone from printing something and carrying it out," Mr. Miller said, adding, "It ain't as Gucci as people think."
According to some of the gamers who belonged to a small group created by Airman Teixeira on the social media site Discord, he liked to play the apocalyptic zombie game Project Zomboid, as well as Arma 3, a tactical shooter game known for its lifelike attention to detail. He also liked to lecture the Discord group about the war in Ukraine and conflicts around the globe, sometimes typing for a half-hour at a time to share what he was learning from classified intelligence at work.
One group member told The New York Times that the briefings were largely ignored by the group, so Airman Teixeira, in frustration, started posting photos of actual classified materials. Those materials were later shared on other online platforms, eventually attracting the attention of federal authorities, who arrested him at gunpoint at his home on Thursday.
Restricting access to classified material might lead to fewer leaks, Mr. Miller said, but it also might cut off the flow of information, leading to intelligence failures that are far more dangerous than what any of the leakers have done.
"That's what happened before 9/11," he said. "We were too locked down and couldn't put together the pieces of the puzzle. As we look for a fix, we have to make sure we don't make the same mistake."
At a Pentagon briefing on Thursday, Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder, a spokesman, addressed concerns about Airman Teixeira's age, noting that the military routinely gives young people tremendous responsibility.
"Think about a young combat, you know, platoon sergeant, and the responsibility and trust that we put into those individuals to lead troops into combat," he said. "You receive training and you will receive an understanding of the rules and requirements that come along with those responsibilities, and you're expected to abide by those rules, regulations and responsibility. It's called military discipline. And in certain cases, especially when it comes to sensitive information, it also is about the law."
Sheelagh McNeill and Susan C. Beachy contributed research. Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.
Sheelagh McNeill and Susan C. Beachy contributed research. Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.
Photograph Jack Teixeira attended Dighton-Rehoboth Regional High School in Dighton, Mass., a town of about 8,000 people near the Massachusetts-Rhode Island border. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOPHIE PARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A8.

ERIC Subject: Weapons; High School Seniors; Mothers; Government (Administrative Body); War; Armed Forces

Subject: Military reserves; Military aircraft; Social networks; Security clearances; Intelligence gathering; Secondary schools; Classified information; Intelligence services

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts; Ukraine; Rhode Island

People: Teixeira, Jack Douglas

Company / organization: Name: Air National Guard; NAICS: 928110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/15/us/jack-teixeira-pentagon-leak.html

Title: A National Guard Airman With Limited Responsibilities and a Lot of Access:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/national-guard-airman-with-limited/docview/2801437275/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In High School, Airman Charged With Leak Was Focused on the Military

Author: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis

Publication info: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-school-airman-charged-with-leak-was-focused/docview/2801288112/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For his high school senior yearbook, Jack Teixeira got to pick a quote to appear below the photo showing him smiling in a green hoodie. His choice: “Actions speak louder than words.”
On Friday, Teixeira, a 21-year-old airman in the Massachusetts Air National Guard, was charged with two counts under the Espionage Act because, federal prosecutors say, his actions caused harm to the country he had devoted himself to serving. He did not enter a plea.
They said he repeatedly shared classified documents on the internet through a gaming group he belonged to that focused on war, guns, and sometimes, racist and antisemitic memes. It was a remarkable turnabout for a young man who grew up with a passion for the military and weapons — at times to an unnerving extent, some who knew him said.
Teixeira grew up in a family with strong military ties in Dighton, Massachusetts, a town of about 8,000 people near the Massachusetts-Rhode Island border that retains a distinctly rural character, with tractors in backyards, fresh eggs for sale in roadside honor boxes and old stone walls rambling through woods. It is also reliably conservative.
The Teixeira home sits at the end of a long, densely treed lot, where Teixeira’s mother runs a home floral business. His stepfather retired as a master sergeant from the same Air Force intelligence unit where Teixeira worked, headquartered on a base on nearby Cape Cod. He also has a stepbrother in the Air Force, according to a profile for the brother on LinkedIn.
Close to two dozen people who knew Teixeira when he was in high school did not respond to interview requests or declined to comment. But several former classmates at Dighton-Rehoboth Regional High School remembered him as a quiet and somewhat awkward teenager who sometimes wore camouflage and boots to school.
Kailani Reis, 20, a high school classmate in Teixeira’s graduating class, said that as a student, the airman expressed his interest in weapons often enough that she and some other students found it “unsettling” and avoided him. She said few of the former classmates she knew were surprised when he was arrested.
She did not recall that he talked politics but said he spoke often about joining the military and on occasion told teachers who encouraged him that he did not plan on going to college.
He even skipped his high school graduation in 2020 to report to basic training in the Air Force at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas.
“Congratulations to my son Jack Teixeira who was not able to attend the ceremony,” his mother posted on Facebook at the time. “It’s too bad they didn’t mention his name at some point.”
In the Air Force, Teixeira became a low-level computer tech at Otis Air National Guard Base in Sandwich, Massachusetts, where his mother said he worked nights, helping maintain secure networks. There, he had broad access to a secure facility where he could access a global network of classified material from the military and 17 other U.S. intelligence agencies.
Authorities say that Teixeira eventually leaked dozens of documents containing potentially harmful details about the war in Ukraine and other sensitive national security topics.
That a 21-year-old with so little authority could have access to a such a vast trove of top secret information might surprise the general public, but people who have worked in the intelligence world say untold thousands of troops and government civilians have access to top secret materials, including many young, inexperienced workers the military relies on to process the monumental amount of intelligence it collects.
Those workers can log onto the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System — essentially a highly classified version of Google — and in milliseconds pull up briefings on Ukraine, China or nearly any other sensitive subject that the U.S. government collects intelligence on.
Though his motivations may be different, Teixeira is remarkably similar to two other high-profile leakers in recent years, Chelsea Manning and Reality Winner, said Javed Ali, a former senior U.S. counterterrorism official who held intelligence roles at the FBI, the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Department of Homeland Security.
Manning was a 23-year-old Army intelligence analyst who was convicted in 2013 of giving more than 700,000 classified documents to WikiLeaks. Winner was a 26-year-old former Air Force linguist working as a military contractor who in 2017 printed out a classified report on Russian hacking, hid it in her pantyhose and gave it to The Intercept.
Unlike Manning and Winner, who came to be seen as whistleblowers motivated by ideology, Teixeira did not appear to be driven by government policies, according to people who knew him online.
But all three were relatively young and had security clearances that were the classified intelligence equivalent of having the keys to dad’s red convertible.
“Clearly their relatively young age is a common factor, and I would hope the intelligence community is thinking about that,” said Bennett Miller, a retired Air Force intelligence analyst. “The problem is that the community needs these people. It can’t work without them.”
The words “top secret” may conjure images of pristine vaults and retinal scanners, Miller said, but in reality, while some highly classified material is siloed in special access programs, most of the rest is accessible to thousands of ordinary people who have security clearances.
And security can be surprisingly lax.
Often, these systems are basically just a bunch of computers on a desk and there is “nothing really stopping anyone from printing something and carrying it out,” Miller said, adding, “It ain’t as Gucci as people think.”
According to some of the gamers who belonged to a small group created by Teixeira on the social media site Discord, he liked to play the apocalyptic zombie game Project Zomboid, as well as Arma 3, a tactical shooter game known for its lifelike attention to detail. He also liked to lecture the Discord group about the war in Ukraine and conflicts around the globe, sometimes typing for a half-hour at a time to share what he was learning from classified intelligence at work.
One group member told The New York Times that the briefings were largely ignored by the group, so Teixeira, in frustration, started posting photos of actual classified materials. Those materials were later shared on other online platforms, eventually attracting the attention of federal authorities, who arrested him at gunpoint at his home Thursday.
Restricting access to classified material might lead to fewer leaks, Miller said, but it also might cut off the flow of information, leading to intelligence failures that are far more dangerous than what any of the leakers have done.
“That’s what happened before 9/11,” he said. “We were too locked down and couldn’t put together the pieces of the puzzle. As we look for a fix, we have to make sure we don’t make the same mistake.”
At a Pentagon briefing Thursday, Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder, a spokesperson, addressed concerns about Teixeira’s age, noting that the military routinely gives young people tremendous responsibility.
“Think about a young combat, you know, platoon sergeant, and the responsibility and trust that we put into those individuals to lead troops into combat,” he said. “You receive training and you will receive an understanding of the rules and requirements that come along with those responsibilities, and you’re expected to abide by those rules, regulations and responsibility. It’s called military discipline. And in certain cases, especially when it comes to sensitive information, it also is about the law.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Weapons; High School Seniors; Mothers; Government (Administrative Body); War; Armed Forces

Subject: Students; Military reserves; Military aircraft; Arrests; Social networks; Security clearances; Intelligence gathering; Secondary schools; Classified information; Leaking of information; Intelligence services

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts

People: Teixeira, Jack Douglas

Company / organization: Name: Air National Guard-Massachusetts; NAICS: 928110

Identifier / keyword: United States; Cape Cod (Mass); Politics And Government; Espionage And Intelligence Services; Computers And The Internet; Civilian Casualties; Cyberwarfare And Defense; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Defense Intelligence Agency; September 11 (2001); Rhode Island; Colleges And Universities; New York Times; Computer Security; Sandwich (Mass); Massachusetts; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Us Intelligence Documents Leak (2023); Linkedin Corporation; Ukraine; Education (Secondary); Classified Information And State Secrets; Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Google Inc; Social Media; Winner, Reality Leigh; Lackland Air Force Base (San Antonio, Tex); Defense And Military Forces; Defense Department; Texas; Discrimination; Pentagon Building; Russian Language; Shutdowns (Institutional); News And News Media; Homeland Security Department; Facebook Inc; Miller, Bennett; Mann ing, Chelsea; Teixeira, Jack; Air National Guard; Education (K 12); Wikileaks; United States Defense And Military Forces; Russia; National Guard; Discord Inc; Age, Chronological

Title: In High School, Airman Charged With Leak Was Focused on the Military

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 15, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-15T16:30:44Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801288112

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-school-airman-charged-with-leak-was-focused/docview/2801288112/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Florida, Dull? How to Dazzle The Grandkids.: [SpecialSections]

Author: Harpaz, Beth

Publication info: Harpaz, Beth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/florida-dull-how-dazzle-grandkids/docview/2793588384/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What could be bad about visiting your grandparents in Florida when it's gray and chilly elsewhere?
From the perspective of tweens and teens, a lot. Of course, seeing their relatives is great, but Charlie Abisror, 17, of Demarest, N.J., put it this way. When it comes to things to do, "a walk to the Circle K to get a Little Debbie is about the best of it," he said -- and the car-centric landscape means "you're lucky if you get a sidewalk" to boot.
"I don't really like visiting Florida because it's very boring," said River Mason Eromosele, 12, from Newark, who's gone with his mother to visit family. "I honestly feel it's for older people to relax. There wasn't a lot of stuff for me to do."
As a teenager, Rachel Charlupski, 38, often flew from Detroit to visit grandparents in Palm Beach County, but they were so busy that she sometimes ended up bored and alone. And while "amenities at their clubs were amazing, there is only so much a teenager wants to do by themselves." Ms. Charlupski's experience led her to start the Babysitting Company, which provides chaperones in South Florida and elsewhere to take kids to the pool, the mall, or the movies or just to hang out playing games.
But you don't have to hire a babysitter to get kids excited to visit. Nor do you have to pivot your itinerary to glamorous Miami Beach or theme-park-rich Orlando. Palm Beach County -- which includes Palm Beach, West Palm Beach, Boca Raton and Delray Beach -- can more than hold its own with a wealth of attractions for children of all ages, from preschoolers to teenagers. Here, some ideas.
1. Go thrifting
Palm Beach County is known for its many thrift and consignment stores. Some are high-end shops like Posh Consignment by V in Boca Raton, where you can drop thousands of dollars on "pre-loved" Chanel or Gucci. But there are also lots of affordable stores perfect for a day of thrifting with teenagers.
How do you know which shops are which? "The secret to wrapping your head around it is this," said Baron Hanson, 52, a local real estate agent. "Is the shop a profit-based consignment shop, or is it a church or nonprofit that's taking free donations?" One of his favorite spots is the Church Mouse, a well-organized store in Palm Beach with loads of cute clothes at bargain prices. His prize find: a $ 525 Polo Purple Label linen shirt for $ 25.
When Aleda Frishman, 56, who lives in Delray Beach, hosted grandchildren visiting from Virginia, "we did a whole day of thrifting," she said. Her favorite spots include the Faith Farm thrift store in Boynton Beach, where she bought roller skates for her 11-year-old granddaughter for $ 2, and a Rafe pocketbook for herself for $ 20. At World Thrift in Lake Worth, Ms. Frishman's grandsons, 14 and 15, were thrilled to find a collection of brand-new Minecraft-themed T-shirts.
Julie Khanna, 39, has two teenagers and also owns Khanna House Studios in Wellington, where teens produce their own podcasts, reels and other multimedia content. "We are big thrifters in this house," she said. She likes American Thrift in Lake Worth. Ms. Khanna also likes supporting Prom Beach, where teens who are referred by local social service organizations can get free prom outfits. Prom Beach sells to the public by appointment from a showroom in the Salvation Army store in West Palm Beach.
Other affordable thrift shops include Kismet Vintage in West Palm, which has an arty, groovy vibe, and the area's many Goodwill stores, including two in Boca Raton, one in Delray Beach and one in Boynton Beach. City Girl Consignment in West Palm Beach sells high-end designer items as well as deeply discounted goods, including sandals, sneakers and brand-name apparel (J. Crew, Banana Republic, Lilly Pulitzer).
2. Hit the water
Palm Beach County has 47 miles of coastline and there are any number of ways to enjoy it. West Palm Beach offers kayak, paddleboard and jet ski rentals and tours, along with snorkeling. You can also rent gear and take lessons from Island Water Sports in Deerfield Beach. For a relaxing, end-of-a-long-day option, try a sunset catamaran cruise from downtown West Palm Beach.
A favorite with families is Riverbend Park on the Loxahatchee River in Jupiter. "Riverbend truly is a magical place," said Carli Brinkman, 41, a New Yorker who visits Florida six to eight times a year and often brings her 3- and 9-year-old daughters. "We love it there and have so many memories."
You can rent canoes, kayaks or paddleboards; take guided tours; or walk or bike the trails. "My daughters have encountered everything from a family of wild deer grazing just steps off the path, baby owls in a nest awaiting their mother's return and even an alligator casually swimming by," Ms. Brinkman said.
Another popular spot for all ages is Peanut Island, an 80-acre, man-made, tropical island in Lake Worth Lagoon. Reaching the island is an adventure in itself: Take a 10-minute ferry or water taxi from the Riviera Beach Marina, or get there on your own by renting a paddleboard, jet ski or kayak. (Some people even swim or, at low tide, walk.) No food is sold, so bring your own picnic (alcohol is prohibited), but there are bathrooms, showers, shaded picnic areas and overnight camping spots. The island also offers a fishing pier, swimming areas with lifeguards and a paved 1.25-mile path. Look for colorful fish and other sea creatures in the clear, calm waters (just watch out for stinging jellyfish).
3. See turtles and manatees
Young children will enjoy visiting Gumbo Limbo Nature Center in Boca Raton and Loggerhead Marinelife Center in Juno Beach, where sea turtles are treated for illness and injuries.
Gumbo Limbo's permanent residents include a disabled turtle fitted with a flotation device. The site also includes a butterfly garden, a lab where tiny hatchlings are nurtured, saltwater aquariums filled with sea horses and other creatures, and a trail through a grove of hardwood trees that takes you to views of the Intracoastal Waterway. Find everything in the center's scavenger hunt guide and you get a free shark's tooth as a prize.
At Loggerhead, you can meet sea turtles like Nemo, who's doing well after having part of an injured fin amputated. The center monitors a 9.5-mile area from Juno Beach to Blowing Rocks Preserve, which is considered the most densely populated sea turtle nesting beach in the Western Hemisphere.
Gumbo Limbo and Loggerhead are both free to visit, though there are fees for some tours and activities like kayaking geared to older kids and adults. Turtle walks, where you can observe turtles nesting on the beach, are usually held in June and July, and are also offered by MacArthur Beach Nature Center in North Palm Beach.
Have you ever seen a manatee? Stop by Manatee Lagoon in West Palm Beach and you just might. These strange and gentle sea mammals are attracted to the lagoon because of warm-water outflows from the Florida Power & Light plant. There are no guarantees of a sighting, but they're seen most often in the cooler months, from November to March.
4. Walk the wetlands
Nature lovers of all ages will be thrilled by the many creatures easily spotted on a leisurely stroll through Green Cay Wetlands in Boynton Beach or Wakodahatchee Wetlands in Delray Beach. Green Cay has a 1.5-mile boardwalk through 100 acres, while Wakodahatchee has a three-quarter-mile boardwalk through 50 acres. More than 150 bird species have been recorded in the parks, and even casual observers are guaranteed to see some of them on the water, in trees and sometimes just sitting on a fence a few feet away from you. They include herons, egrets, hawks, eagles, cormorants, pelicans and, if you're lucky, the unforgettable sight of a pink-and-white roseate spoonbill. Both parks are free to visit.
5. Do science
Five hours into a trip to the Cox Science Center in West Palm Beach, a 4-year-old was still running around investigating every corner. His favorite activities: the water table, the magnet fishing game and the hurricane simulator.
Other displays will interest older kids, including "Journey Through the Human Brain," about neuroscience; "States of Matter," exploring solid, liquid, gas and plasma; and "Science on a Sphere," a six-foot-diameter globe that uses data and video to illustrate climate change, storms and other aspects of Earth's weather and atmosphere. There's also an aquarium, outdoor science trail, mini-golf course and an observatory that hosts occasional "Nights at the Museum."
Admission to the science center is $ 20.95 for adults, $ 16.95 for children 3 to 12, and $ 18.95 for seniors 60 and older. Planetarium tickets are an additional $ 5.
Next door to the science center is the Palm Beach Zoo, where you can ride a tiger or an eagle on the wildlife-themed carousel, then see the real thing in the zoo. And while only a handful of U.S. zoos have koalas, Palm Beach is home to two, Sydney and Ellin, along with sloths, giant anteaters, flamingos and many other species. In the Lorikeet Loft, colorful free-flying birds eat out of visitors' hands. And while you're unlikely to spot the rare and elusive Florida panther in the wild, you can see one here.
Zoo admission for adults is $ 27.75; for children 3 to 12, $ 21.75; and for seniors 60 and up, $ 25.75.
6. Go on safari
Sometimes vacationing with kids can be exhausting, so here's an outing where all you have to do is look out the window of your air-conditioned car. As you roll though Las Pampas, the Kalahari, the Serengeti and other themed habitats on the four-mile drive around Lion Country Safari park, you'll see herds of rhinos, giraffes (including two born in December), zebras and dozens of other species. But "watch out for the ostriches!" said Lesley Carter, 42, who visited from Texas with her 2- and 10-year-old children. "Even though you are in your vehicle, they like to stretch out their long necks and really get in your personal space for a bite to eat."
Admission is $ 45 plus tax for visitors age 10 and older, $ 34 for children ages 3 to 9, and free for 2 and under.
7. Visit a Japanese garden
In the early 20th century, Palm Beach County was home to a colony of Japanese farmers, but George Morikami was the only one left after World War II. He eventually donated his land to the county and it is now the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens. A mile-long path winds its way through a series of gardens, with each area inspired by a Japanese tradition. Features include bonsai trees, rock gardens, bridges, waterfalls and koi. Admission is $ 15 for adults, $ 13 for seniors 65 and over, and $ 9 for children 6 to 17.
Kids who are into natural wonders (or who want a unique backdrop for a TikTok video) will especially love the bamboo grove, where you can immerse yourself in a magical soundscape as the bamboo rustles, whistles, pops and creaks in the breeze.
The museum has a display and film about the history of the Japanese farming colony, along with temporary art exhibitions.
8. And a few more
The Silverball Retro Arcade in Delray Beach is a fun spot for gamers young and old, with pinball, Skee-Ball, Pac-Man, sports- and superhero-themed games and many others both vintage and contemporary.
Not all kids are into art museums, but if yours are, check out the Norton Museum of Art and Ann Norton Sculpture Gardens in West Palm Beach. The museum's "Art After Dark" on Friday nights is popular with teens and adults, featuring live performances, films, art workshops and more. The Ann Norton Sculpture Gardens, with nine massive sculptures in a wildly lush garden filled with 250 species of tropical palms, is a great spot for selfies. Admission to the museum is free for children 12 and under, $ 5 for students, $ 15 for seniors 60 and older, and $ 18 for adults.
Admission to the sculpture gardens is $ 7 for children and students, $ 15 for adults and $ 10 for seniors.
Beth Harpaz is a copy editor at the Forward.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram , Twitter and Facebook . And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Below, rubbernecking at Lion Country Safari in Loxahatchee, Fla. Clockwise from near right: the Silverball Retro Arcade in Delray Beach, Fla.; Gumbo Limbo Nature Center in Boca Raton, Fla.; and the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens in Delray Beach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT McINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F6-F7) This article appeared in print on page F6-F7.

Subject: Families & family life; Reptiles & amphibians; Parks & recreation areas; Older people; Science; Consignment buying; Teenagers; Wetlands

Location: Florida; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/27/travel/8-places-to-dazzle-the-grandkids-in-florida.html

Title: Florida, Dull? How to Dazzle The Grandkids.:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793588384

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/florida-dull-how-dazzle-grandkids/docview/2793588384/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Court Sense: Using a Wardrobe as a Tool for Persuasion: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/court-sense-using-wardrobe-as-tool-persuasion/docview/2792241965/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At the celebrity ski trial of the century, Ms. Paltrow can't deny her own profile, but she can't fully lean into it either.
Gwyneth Paltrow, wellness guru, entrepreneur and actress, has given the world many things: conscious uncoupling, rectal ozone therapy and, now, a week and a half into that limited series officially known as Sanderson v. Paltrow and unofficially as the Gwyneth Paltrow Ski Crash Trial that is taking place in Park City, Utah, and streaming on the Law & Crime network, a new style subgenre that ought henceforth to be known as courtcore.
It may be more precedent setting than you might think.
Though less viral and with lower stakes than last year's feverishly followed celebrity lawsuit, the Johnny Depp-Amber Heard trial, the G.P. Ski Crash trial may be nominally about the 1 percent problem of who is at fault in a luxury skiing accident but is more broadly about celebrity -- and the place it occupies in our mental and cultural landscape. The celebrity fashion stylist Brad Goreski has posted that he is "obsessed." Katie Couric wrote, "Who isn't?"
For those who have not been following: In 2016 Ms. Paltrow either banged into or was banged into by Mr. Sanderson, a now 76-year-old retired optometrist, while skiing at the Deer Valley Resort. Mr. Sanderson has claimed that he sustained a traumatic brain injury and broken ribs as a result of the collision and underwent personality changes; in 2019 he sued Ms. Paltrow for $ 3.1 million, accusing her of a "hit and run," but a judge ruled that he was not entitled to punitive damages and that figure was reduced to $ 300,000. Ms. Paltrow claims that Mr. Sanderson skied into her and is countersuing for $ 1 and legal fees.
Mr. Sanderson's lawyers are trying to paint Ms. Paltrow as an entitled famous person who walked away from the scene of an accident. (They have delved into her relationship with Taylor Swift, her height and the cost -- thousands per day -- of private ski instructors for each of her children.)
Ms. Paltrow's lawyers have suggested that Mr. Sanderson is trying to exploit her high profile, perhaps in the hopes she will settle the suit to avoid the public humiliation of having to show up in court (or describe, as she did, the "strange grunting noises" made by someone allegedly crashing into her back with his skis between her legs). On both sides, celebrity is being held up as the motivating factor.
And celebrity is the prism through which most of the viewing public is seeing the ... well, star of the show. Who has appeared quietly next to her lawyers every day, using her wardrobe as a tool in her performance of persuasion even when she isn't on the stand.
It's a complicated role. As Maren Mullin, the owner of a contemporary art gallery in Park City called Gallery MAR, said, "She can't dress down too much or she'll be criticized, but she can't dress up too much or she'll be criticized."
She can't be too much of an entitled, out-of-touch rich person, and she can't be too woo-woo about "her truth." She can't deny her own profile, but she can't lean into it. She can't risk playing into the many stereotypes that already exist in the public mind about who she is and what her value system may be.
Celebrities have long struggled with how to dress for court, often falling into traps of over-privilege-signaling (see Martha Stewart with her easily identifiable, very expensive Hermès bags) or over-costuming (the girlish "little old me?" Marc Jacobs number and headbands Winona Ryder wore for her shoplifting trial in 2002). Ms. Paltrow, however, has carefully walked the fine line between obviously rich and successful but respectful of both the venue and the location.
She has favored a symphony of earth tones that echo the environment around her -- cream, olive green, peach, gray and black -- as well as its vibe. She has worn soft knits, often with sleeves puffed just enough to dip into our subconscious association with childhood; loose trousers and long skirts; Peter Pan-collared and pussy-bow shirts.
They are clothes that are buttoned up and conservative -- and luxurious and relaxed at the same time: a plush ivory roll-neck on Day 1, with earthy tweed trousers and a long loden coat; a neat navy collared cardigan and wool midi-skirt when called by the prosecution; a loose gray trouser suit.
All of them paired with lace-up brown or black boots, a soft brown tote, chunky gold jewelry and reading glasses, either aviators or horn rims (also a reusable water bottle). None of them obviously branded, leaving viewers to guess at the make (and the cost). Are the boots Celine? Probably. The aviators, Gucci? Maybe, or they could be Ray-Bans. Is the coat by the Row? Possibly.
Some commentators have suggested that Ms. Paltrow is using the opportunity to shill for her company, Goop, identifying various items as from its clothing line or for sale on the site. Some have joked that the aviators reminded them of Jeffrey Dahmer's signature accessory. Others compared the cream sweater to that worn by Adam Driver's character, Maurizio Gucci, in the "House of Gucci."
But this is missing the point -- or reading the point through the perspective of Paltrow parody, a popular pastime when it comes to a woman who defied the Hollywood odds and achieved financial independence by building a direct-to-consumer brand on the basis of ... vagina-scented candles. Either way, it's not giving her the strategic credit it should, whether you like her or not.
What Ms. Paltrow is doing is offering up an image that does not pander to mountain town, celebrity or courtroom stereotypes. She isn't wearing puffers (I'm a local cliché!) or retro Western wear (I'm a cowboy cliché!) or strict suiting (I'm a legal cliché!). She has avoided the trap of appearing obviously Not From Here. Instead, she is dressing, according to numerous locals, a lot like the people walking down Main Street.
"It's spot on for how Park City likes to dress for events," said Peter Metcalf, the founder of the outdoor gear company Black Diamond Equipment, who has lived in Park City for more than 30 years. Jen Shufro, another resident, noted that it was rare to "see Chanel and Louis Vuitton" or other recognizable luxury brands. By eschewing the blingy logos in favor of stealth-wealth style, Ms. Paltrow is playing to the local crowd.
In a city that is used to the sudden appearance of famous faces -- Park City has been home to the Sundance Film Festival since 1985 -- that effort matters. "They call the celebrities who fly in from New York for two weeks a year 'PiBs' -- people in black," said Phil Powers, a former chief executive of the American Alpine Club. On the other hand, Mr. Metcalf said, "As long as they attempt to fit in, they are well accepted."
And, Ms. Maren said, Ms. Paltrow would in fact "fit right in." Which may make her version of events just that much more believable.
Whatever happens, according to many interviewees, the sentiment in Park City at least seems to be leaning toward Ms. Paltrow. Which suggests that when it comes to image-making in court, "know your audience" is as much a legal maxim as a Hollywood one.
Photograph During a trial in Park City, Utah, about a skiing accident, Gwyneth Paltrow, above, has managed to dodge clichés of courtroom dressing with her careful image-making. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK BOWMER; JEFF SWINGER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; ALEX GOODLETT/ASSOCIATED PRESS; JEFFREY D. ALLRED) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Attorneys; Skiing; Celebrities; Trials; Motion picture festivals; Stereotypes; Persuasion

Location: United States--US; Utah

People: Paltrow, Gwyneth

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/29/style/gwyneth-paltrow-trial-outfits.html

Title: Court Sense: Using a Wardrobe as a Tool for Persuasion:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 30, 2023

column: Unbuttoned

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2792241965

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/court-sense-using-wardrobe-as-tool-persuasion/docview/2792241965/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Great Shoulder Resurgence of 2023: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/great-shoulder-resurgence-2023/docview/2792241930/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Great Shoulder Resurgence of 2023 is coming. Here's why.
Here is a fun game to play: Say the words "shoulder pads" and ask people what springs to mind. Bad 1980s fashions? Margaret Thatcher? Joan Crawford? David Byrne in "Stop Making Sense"?
Soon the answer may be: 2023.
According to data from Tagwalk, the fashion search engine, there was an almost 50 percent increase in bold shoulders during the recent fall ready-to-wear shows over last year. There were big shoulders at big brands and outsider indie brands alike. In New York, at Proenza Schouler, Laquan Smith and Luar (among others); in Milan, at Alberta Ferretti, Ferragamo and Max Mara; and in Paris, at Balenciaga, Rick Owens and Stella McCartney. Thom Browne's shoulders grew by 20 percent for both men and women. None, though, were quite so broad as those at Saint Laurent.
There, Anthony Vaccarello offered jacket shoulders made for an Incredible Hulkette, "pushed to an extreme that I never did before," he said. Specifically, they were 52 centimeters, or 10 centimeters wider than usual. (Width is measured from one shoulder seam to the other.) They were so expansive, it was hard to see around them to the other side of the catwalk.
While the bold shoulder has made periodic resurgences since the turn of the millennium, it hasn't been this big and this broad and this ubiquitous since the Iron Lady buddied up with Ronald Reagan, and Joan Collins went lamé shoulder-to-shoulder with Linda Evans on the set of "Dynasty," the nighttime soap of excess and infighting among the oil barons that was appointment television from 1981 to '89.
Not that the great shoulder resurgence is just another campy turn of the fashion wheel dipping ironically into well-worn '80s clichés of female power and in-your-face achievement, the giant shoulders representing the way women literally had to shove their way into the boardroom by outmanning the men.
Today's big shoulders are not, in fact, your mother's big shoulders. (Been there, worn that, saved it for the costume party.) They are not about breaking the glass ceiling. Nor are they a reaction, as it may seem, to the recent trend of naked dressing that has dominated both the streets and the red carpet. You know, what goes up must come down; what is uncovered must get covered.
Just the opposite, in fact: They are an extension of the desire to place the body front and center, a way to use the shoulder to force a reckoning with what is underneath.
They are a way of "being feminist and feminine at the same time," said Richard Thompson Ford, the author of "Dress Codes: How the Laws of Fashion Made History" and a professor at Stanford Law School.
At a time when women's physical autonomy is under threat, when women's bodies are political footballs, giving them a linebacker line doesn't just gird them for battle, it makes the battle impossible to ignore.
Introducing Shoulder Pads: The Next Generation. They're still fashionable fighting gear, but it's a fight of a different kind.
How We Got to Here
There are few body parts quite as freighted with symbolism as the shoulder. Squared, they take on responsibility and life's burdens. Bowed, they indicate humility, pain, fear, reverence. Shrugged, they signal indifference. Built up, superheroes, super villains and the superglam. They are a resting place for angels and the weight of the world.
They are, said Sonnet Stanfill, a senior curator at the Victoria and Albert Museum, "the part of the body most connected to a visual sense of strength and power."
This has made them such a wardrobe staple that the Pitt Rivers Museum, the anthropology and archaeology museum of Oxford University, has an entire collection dedicated to body arts, including the shoulder pad in all its iterations.
Though exaggerated shoulders can be traced all the way back to the 15th and 16th centuries, to Henry VIII and the projection of what Ms. Stanfill called "hyper-masculinity through bulk," they really took off in the form we know now during what the psychoanalyst John Flügel called "the Great Male Renunciation" of the late 18th century. This period saw the end of highly decorative masculine dress and the ascension of the suit, which mimicked the classical ideal of the male form by sketching out, in cloth form, a broad, muscled torso over slim legs, the better to reflect enlightenment values.
While the invention of the shoulder pad itself is generally attributed to a Princeton University student, L.P. Smock, who designed the interior accessory in 1877 as part of a football uniform, its first big women's fashion moment came courtesy of Elsa Schiaparelli, who introduced the shoulder pad in her 1931 collection, the better to whittle the waist through a trick of perspective rather than through pain of corsetry.
The next year, Joan Crawford wore shoulder pads in her film "Letty Lynton," a look that made such an impact that Macy's was rumored to have sold 500,000 copies of the frock after the movie's release and shoulder pads became synonymous with both Ms. Crawford and the representation of strong women onscreen, culminating in the dresses Adrian designed for the 1945 film "Mildred Pierce."
By that stage, they had also become a uniform of sorts for women entering the work force during World War II. They were "a way of asserting a certain kind of authority and power that had traditionally been associated with masculine tailoring," Mr. Ford said. They were, Ms. Stanfill added, a means of taking up space at a time when women had been marginalized.
These proved to be the antecedents of the shoulder pads of the 1980s, when the battlefield moved to the corporate sphere as women rose through the professional ranks, epitomized by the 1988 film "Working Girl." Also, the work of Thierry Mugler, who died in early 2022 but whose work is enjoying something of a renaissance in the wake of a traveling retrospective that originated at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts in 2019, and Claude Montana, whose extreme shoulders were meant to convey body as well as a kind of armor.
That has been the stereotype in what Ms. Stanfill called our "mental encyclopedia" ever since. Until now.
Not Just a Runway Statement
"A strong shoulder is always relevant when it is needed most," said Laquan Smith, who set his broad shoulders against body-baring gowns. So why now?
There could be any number of reasons (take your pick): the precarious nature of the geopolitical situation; war in Ukraine; economic uncertainty -- but the centering of the body is, Ms. Stanfill said, key. It's what differentiates this era of shoulder pads from the last. It situates the big shoulder in the current context of threats around the world to assert control over women's physical selves, be it the fall of Roe v. Wade in the United States or the protests around head coverings in Iran.
Indeed, said Alberta Ferretti, whose shoulders expanded to about 48 centimeters (18.9 inches) from an average of 40 centimeters (15.7 inches) a year ago, the idea was to use the shoulder to make "the body the protagonist."
And not necessarily in a subtle way. "I definitely wanted a bigger shoulder this season," Stella McCartney said in something of an understatement, given that the shoulders of her coats and jackets grew to, at the broadest, 56 centimeters (22 inches) wide from an average of 42 centimeters (16.5 inches). Rather than swamp the body, however, they set the tone for a silhouette that also focused on the waist and hips. The point being, Ms. McCartney said, to draw attention to the body.
"I wanted to take ownership of it," Ms. McCartney said, "and be powerful in my choices, to bring back ownership of our voice."
Or remind anyone looking who exactly owns the body they are looking at, said Raul Lopez of Luar. "It's a way of taking back all the negative and making it positive and bringing it into the light," Mr. Lopez added, admitting that he piled shoulder pads up about 10 inches in some looks, the better to announce one's presence in a room. Or shoulder your way in, perhaps.
There were a variety of looks with big shoulders in the Luar collection, including a tech jacket and wool coat, but it was, Mr. Lopez said, "the floor-length gowns with the shoulders that were super-sexy that was the first thing buyers were grabbing when they came in for sales."
As for Mr. Vaccarello of Saint Laurent, he was quick to point out that for him, the shoulders were not merely a runway statement. The jackets will be offered in store at the same width as they appeared in his show. (The same will be true at Thom Browne.)
"Even if they are extreme, it's important for me to have them as they are," Mr. Vaccarello said. "Otherwise I would have the feeling to do clothes for theater."
Most designers see the great shoulder resurgence not as a flash in the pan, but rather the start of a shift in our eye -- the kind that means that even if these shoulders look startling today, they may seem a necessary part of every wardrobe tomorrow.
"I didn't intentionally do it because I thought it was going to be a trend," Mr. Lopez said. "But now my DMs and my emails are all about them. Everyone wants the shoulders."
Photograph Clockwise from top left, power pads at: Thom Browne, Balenciaga, Jil Sander, Alexander McQueen, Marni, Gucci, Luar and Proenza Schouler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOM BROWNE; BALENCIAGA; ALESSANDRO LUCIONI/ GORUNWAY.COM; ALEXANDER McQUEEN; PROENZA SCHOULER; DAN & CORINA LECCA; GUCCI; MARNI) This article appeared in print on page D5.

Subject: Shoulder; Women; Power; Fashion designers; Museums

People: McCartney, Stella; Crawford, Joan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/28/style/big-shoulders-trend.html

Title: The Great Shoulder Resurgence of 2023:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 30, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2792241930

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/great-shoulder-resurgence-2023/docview/2792241930/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Football Yankees? Basketball Yankees? Brazilians Don't Care, They Just Want the Cap.: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Nicas, Jack

Publication info: Nicas, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/football-yankees-basketball-brazilians-dont-care/docview/2792241911/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Matheus Gustavo arrived for his second day of work at a hat shop in Rio de Janeiro wearing a black New York Yankees cap. His new job, for the most part, was selling Yankees hats. On the displays around him, about three out of four caps promoted that baseball team in the Bronx.
Yet Mr. Gustavo had a confession. He had worn a Yankees hat for years, he said, "but I never knew the real reason for the NY."
When told the Yankees were a baseball team, the 23-year-old looked unimpressed. "Ah," he responded. "It's more about soccer here."
That is an understatement. In Brazil, soccer is life, and baseball confounds. But a few days in any of Brazil's metropolises or beyond will make clear that, regardless, the Yankees cap is perhaps the country's hottest headwear.
It is ubiquitous on the beaches of Rio, and in the bars of São Paulo. It was perched on the heads of some right-wing protesters demanding a military coup to oust Brazil's leftist president. And last month, it hung from a tree, torn and muddied, at an illegal gold mine deep inside the Amazon rainforest.
Just don't expect many Brazilians to understand what the hat means.
"It's American football? Or is it a brand?" said Carlos Henrique, 20, hawking Yankees caps off a metal rack he was carrying on Rio's Ipanema Beach. Either way, it was his best seller. "I just know it calls attention," he said. "And it looks good on everyone."
More than any other sports paraphernalia, the Yankees cap has become its very own fashion trend, unmoored from the sport or the team it represents. Lifted by starring roles in hip-hop videos, celebrity endorsements and collaborations with Gucci and Supreme, the hat has gone fully global, crossing borders to lands where mentions of Babe Ruth and Aaron Judge will elicit blank stares -- never mind trying to explain the "Evil Empire."
This week, the Yankees start playing meaningful baseball once again, and Yankees fans in New York will pull on the caps to show their allegiance. But to many others in places like Brazil, China and Nigeria, the interlocked NY insignia will remain simply a classic piece of Americana, a status symbol, or a generic -- perhaps chic -- emblem of the West.
"The logo is super stylish and, I think, sophisticated," said Natalia Monsores, 40, while checking out a wall of Yankees hats in a luxury-mall shop owned by New Era, the Buffalo, N.Y., company that makes the official Yankees caps. "It's the symbol of the brand, right? New Era," she replied when asked what the logo meant. "You're sending a sign: 'I'm wearing something quality."'
Isabel Cunha, 26, an ad professional in a Yankees cap eating breakfast in Rio, admitted that she, too, was not quite sure what she was wearing. "I think it's pretty," she said. When told it was a sports team, she replied, "basketball?"
Artur Regen oversees Brazil for New Era, Brazil's largest -- and, he said, only -- licensed Major League Baseball hat seller. "Ninety-eight percent of Brazilians don't know it's a baseball team," he said. "New York is cool and they want to be associated with it."
New Era sells Yankees hats in more than 125 countries. Since entering Brazil in 2010, the company has added more than 2,000 partner stores and 150 franchise shops, Mr. Regen said. Over the past two years, sales have doubled.
At two New Era shops in Rio this month, the displays were blanketed in dozens of variations of Yankees caps -- clashing colors, subtle designs, rips, stripes, camouflage, mesh. There were a few Los Angeles Dodgers hats. Some other American teams had a hat or so each. That other New York hat -- for the Mets -- was not spotted.
"Walk on any beach in Brazil and 90 percent of the New Era hats you'll see are probably going to be the Yankees," Mr. Regen said. Four workers across the two shops said nine out of 10 hats sold were Yankees caps.
How does Mr. Regen, who wore a Yankees shirt to an interview for this article, feel about baseball? "Personally," he said, "I don't understand it."
That was the refrain on baseball across Brazil: Everyone had heard of it; some had seen it; no one understood it.
"We can't even understand how a sport like this is so successful," said João Ricardo Santos, an art director in Rio, who was shopping for a baseball cap downtown. In the United States, baseball "fills the stadiums and soccer doesn't," he said. "Like, in our head, that doesn't make any sense."
Mr. Santos got his first Yankees cap more than a decade ago -- a red-and-white version he sought out after seeing the American singer Chris Brown wear it.
He has seen a lot more Yankees caps around Brazil lately, which he attributed to growing American influence fueled by the internet. "With YouTube, people don't just listen to the music. They see the video, they see how the artists dress," he said. "People want to feel like they belong. So brands play this role, and the Yankees cap is part of that."
In 2009, Jay-Z rapped, "I made the Yankee hat more famous than a Yankee can." But while he and other artists may have helped spark the trend, Brazilian celebrities now carry the torch. Among them are funkeiros -- the artists who play Brazilian funk, a raw spinoff of hip-hop -- and social-media influencers.
Gabriel Maximo, an actor, was smoking a cigarette on a Rio street corner recently, during a break from shooting a new TV series in which his character -- a famous social-media influencer -- wears a Yankees cap. Mr. Maximo said he owns about 15 Yankees caps, which he wears in many of the photos he posts to his 51,000 Instagram followers.
"My friends all buy New Era," he said. "They buy the Yankees."
"It fits my head," he added. "I have big hair." (He does.)
While New Era's business is booming in Brazil, the Yankees don't profit much; the 30 M.L.B. teams split revenue from most official apparel sales. But most Yankees hats sold in Brazil -- Mr. Regen estimates nine in 10 -- are knockoffs anyway.
At a bustling street market in downtown Rio, six separate hat vendors said Yankees caps were their top seller, which they sold for $ 5 to $ 8 each. At the New Era shops, they cost as much as $ 48.
Some street vendors bought from wholesalers nearby, while others said they ordered in bulk from out-of-state factories. Maria Rodrigues, a vendor wearing a Yankees cap, said her supply comes from a man who shows up weekly with a bag of Yankees caps, priced at $ 4 each. She sells them for a buck more. "I don't know where they come from," she said.
Mr. Regen said New Era, which imports its hats from Asia, has worked with the authorities to destroy millions of counterfeit hats in Brazil over the past decade, but you "close one factory and they open two more."
Cristiano Souza used to sell only cheap, blank hats in his wholesale shop in downtown Rio, but last year, his clients began demanding Yankees caps. Now they are among his best sellers, sold in bulk for $ 3 each.
He said he gets the hats from a factory near São Paulo. They were not from New Era, yet most had the New Era logo stitched on the side and some had New Era tags. Others were less convincing, including some with a shiny sticker that said: "special offer. PREMIUM QUALITY. Authentic Cap collection. BEST Quality."
Mr. Souza said few of his clients -- the hat vendors themselves -- know what the Yankees are.
One of the few people interviewed for this article who did know what the Yankees are was Jesus Tacae, an immigrant from Venezuela, a baseball hotbed. He was wearing a Yankees cap while riding a bike from his job at an ice factory in Boa Vista, a city in the Amazon.
Yet he had his own confession. "My favorite team is Boston," he said. "But they don't sell that here."
Photograph Counterfeit New York Yankees caps at a Rio de Janeiro stand. Musicians and social-media influencers are among those championing the growing trend in Brazil.; Carlos Henrique selling caps on Ipanema Beach, left. Matheus Gustavo, above, an employee at a New Era store, trying on a cap. The company sells the hats in over 125 countries.; Thuanny Mendes on Ipanema Beach. In Brazil, an estimated nine in 10 Yankees hats are knockoffs. Sales of the official cap have doubled in the last two years. Employees of New Era stores, left and right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DADO GALDIERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); A forgotten artifact during a mission by Brazil's environmental special forces team in the Amazon rainforest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR MORIYAMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A6.

Subject: Celebrities; Social networks; Professional baseball; Vendors; Mayors; Counterfeiting; Soccer; Headgear; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Factories

Location: Amazon Basin; New York; United States--US; Brazil; Rio de Janeiro Brazil

Company / organization: Name: New York Yankees; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/29/world/americas/yankees-caps-brazil.html

Title: Football Yankees? Basketball Yankees? Brazilians Don't Care, They Just Want the Cap.:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 30, 2023

column: Brazil Dispatch

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2792241911

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/football-yankees-basketball-brazilians-dont-care/docview/2792241911/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Freedom To Pursue A New Muse: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Povoledo, Elisabetta

Publication info: Povoledo, Elisabetta. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/freedom-pursue-new-muse/docview/2790225892/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The finalists for the 2023 Yale Drama Series Prize suddenly find themselves in Italy, with plenty of time to write, reflect and make pasta.
CASTIGLIONCELLO DEL TRINORO, Italy -- Just two weeks ago, the lives of four promising playwrights were upended: Not only did they receive an email announcing that their work had been shortlisted for the 2023 Yale Drama Series Prize, but they were also invited to participate in a monthlong residency in Tuscany, led by the American playwright Jeremy O. Harris.
Which is how those playwrights found themselves eating gourmet meals this week in a medieval village turned boutique hotel with breathtaking views of the postcard-perfect Val d'Orcia countryside. With access to a sauna and spa, as well as pasta-making classes and truffle-hunting, they are very much in a pinch-me-I-can't-believe-it's-true state.
"The first two or three days I was like, 'How am I here, this is insane,"' Rianna Simons, 21, said of working alongside "very lovely, very talented people in a crazy, beautiful environment." Simons, a Bermudian-British writer who lives in London, almost didn't come, she said, laughing, because she initially thought the email about her play "White Girls Gang" was a scam.
There are no hard and fast rules for the fellows in the program, called Substratum, which was conceived by Harris ("Slave Play," "Daddy"), a graduate of the Yale School of Drama, who judged the competition. "I just want people to write," he said in an interview this week. The finalists, who were among those who submitted about 1,700 works, are "writers doing something a little different," he said. "A little off the beaten path."
The prize went to Jesús Valles for "Bathhouse.pptx," a play exploring queer history. But because Valles, who is pursuing an M.F.A. in playwriting, was unable to leave their studies at Brown University, the slot went to Raffaella Donatich, Harris's former assistant and an "exciting emerging writer," Harris said, adding that she was invited on the strength of her pilot "Sex Act."
The other fellows, all at various stages of their careers, agreed that having the time to write without distractions -- and not having to sweat the small stuff -- was the real reward.
"There's something about having everything taken care of," said Chloë Myerson, a 32-year-old writer from London whose play "Class" was shortlisted. Being outside of her normal life felt almost like a "weird punishment," she said, "because as a writer, I'm always trying to carve out space" from the demands of work, relationships and life.
For Donatich, 26, who lives in New York, having "so much unstructured time" was forcing her "to define the reasons why I like the thing I claim to like to do."
And Asa Haynes, 27, an actor turned playwright from London who was recognized for his work "RACISM: an unfocused theater essay," said the experience was giving his imagination free rein. "Writing isn't necessarily sitting down at a table with a glass of water or a cup of tea listening to some music. It's also taking in the sun, the views, going to the spa and having a very hot sauna," he said. "Writing is actually a lot more thinking and ruminating."
This sort of pampering is exactly what Harris envisioned for the fellows participating in the residency -- the first, he hopes, of many.
The residency is sponsored by Gucci, and was conceived when Harris worked with that luxury brand. "I always remind them that the only reason they know who I am is because of the theater, and so it feels disingenuous of me to accept a paycheck without figuring out a way to bring it back to the theater somehow," he said.
Having spent time in Italy during pandemic lockdown, he decided it was the perfect place for writers to immerse themselves in an unfamiliar culture and "get the type of inspiration that can really shift an artist's brain from the consciousness of society that you're a part of to some new amalgamation of the expat brain," he said.
He was introduced to Michael L. Cioffi, the owner of Monteverdi Tuscany, the boutique property where fellows are staying. (Monteverdi is underwriting many of the on-property expenses and experiences, like the pasta-making classes.) Cioffi, a Cincinnati-based lawyer, came to Tuscany about two decades ago, and later encountered the decaying hilltop hamlet of Castiglioncello del Trinoro, about halfway between Florence and Rome.
An initial purchase became a passion project, and eventually Cioffi bought many of the hamlet's houses, transforming abandoned stables and dilapidated farmhouses into guest rooms, a restaurant and a wellness center and spa. Only a few original residents remain.
From the start, Cioffi said in a Zoom interview, he conceived of the Monteverdi as a "place to share with people, but also create a platform where people could really experience the arts in a meaningful way." He established an artist-in-residence program and a concert series; the property had already attracted the likes of Wes Anderson, who wrote "The Grand Budapest Hotel" there.
"I was like, well, it already has been like the muse has already wandered the halls there, and I want to meet her and see what she has to offer us," Harris said of the space.
The group is sharing a six-bedroom house called Muri Antichi (Ancient Walls), with en-suite bathrooms, and spacious common rooms where they've been gathering after dinner to watch movies.
Days are mostly self-structured for the fellows. Mentoring has been informal as well. Harris said he was as eager to learn "from everyone here" as he was to mentor the playwrights.
For DJ Hills, 27, whose play "Trunk Brief Jock Thong" was shortlisted, the pampering is giving them a "because you're worth it" moment. "There is so much flagellation as an artist; I need to be constantly throwing myself onto the ground for my work," Hills said, adding that time in the spa has been a gift. "I, as an artist, am worth the 30 minutes to be here."
As for Harris, he is keen to work on projects that had been put on the back burner while he basked in the success of his Tony-nominated "Slave Play" and sundry other projects which, besides modeling for Gucci, include releasing a capsule collection, producing plays, writing for television and cinema and performing in the Netflix series "Emily in Paris."
"I need to get back to my actual writing," he said, "because while it's been really exciting to support other people, I am still an artist, you know, so I need to create my art."
In the coming weeks, the fellows will encounter a range of artists (and possibly producers), including the filmmakers Pete Ohs ("Jethica") and Eliza Hittman ("Never Rarely Sometimes Always," "Beach Rats"), the playwrights Jordan Tannahill and Jasmine Lee-Jones and the author Erika J. Simpson.
Harris's experience in 2015 at MacDowell, a prestigious artists' residency program in New Hampshire, also inspired this new program. He called that residency a confidence-boosting experience that "restructured my sense of self," adding that he hoped the Tuscan experience would do the same for the fellows.
MacDowell also showed him the importance of sharing meals. "That's the only rule," he added, "dinners where you can catch up on your day, see how things have gone," and just talk.
Two recent meals were an indication of the sort of banter that takes place, with topics ranging from -- and this is just a small sampling -- playwrights contemporary and not (from Aristotle to David Ireland and plenty in between); Pier Paolo Pasolini (whose film "Theorem" they had watched the night before); K-dramas and their Shakespearean influences; British actors doing American accents (not so great, some said); Fassbinder films; the biblical king David; olive oil; Shonda Rhimes (and how she's not given enough credit for her innovations); a new stage adaptation of "Brokeback Mountain"; Michelin-starred restaurants; elaborate European film titles; and, because Monday was game night, good games to play (Spades, Exploding Kittens, Salad Bowl).
Before dinner, the fellows learned to make ravioli and picci, a local pasta. "Also theater, you know," said Harris, who had earlier described meals he'd eaten in terms of the pleasure he'd gotten from the chef's storytelling, even more than the food.
The group kneaded and rolled out the dough and joked happily.
"Jeremy's like the most wonderful fairy godmother," Hills said. "We're very fortunate to have him."
Photograph Jeremy O. Harris, the author of "Slave Play," said he considers Italy the perfect place for writers to "get the type of inspiration that can really shift an artist's brain." (C1); Below from left, Rianna Simons, Asa Haynes and DJ Hills on the property, a former medieval village. Below right, from left, Chloë Myerson, Haynes and Simons. The four were finalists for the Yale Drama Series Prize.; Jeremy O. Harris, above right, with the fellows Haynes, left, and Hills. Harris, below, whose "Slave Play" received multiple Tony nominations, said he was as eager to learn "from everyone here" as he was to mentor the young playwrights. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUIDO GAZZILLI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C5.

Subject: Writers; Artists; Meals; Writing; Motion pictures; Theater; Dramatists

Location: Italy

People: Harris, Jeremy O

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/23/theater/jeremy-o-harris-writers-residency-italy.html

Title: Freedom To Pursue A New Muse:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 25, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790225892

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/freedom-pursue-new-muse/docview/2790225892/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jeremy O. Harris’ Writers Residency Under the Tuscan Sun

Author: Povoledo, Elisabetta

Publication info: Povoledo, Elisabetta. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jeremy-o-harris-writers-residency-under-tuscan/docview/2790147179/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
CASTIGLIONCELLO DEL TRINORO, Italy — Just two weeks ago, the lives of four promising playwrights were upended: Not only did they receive an email announcing that their work had been shortlisted for the 2023 Yale Drama Series Prize, but they were also invited to participate in a monthlong residency in Tuscany, led by American playwright Jeremy O. Harris.
Which is how those playwrights found themselves eating gourmet meals this week in a medieval village turned boutique hotel with breathtaking views of the postcard-perfect Val d’Orcia countryside. With access to a sauna and spa, as well as pasta-making classes and truffle hunting, they are very much in a pinch-me-I-can’t-believe-it’s-true state.
“The first two or three days I was like, ‘How am I here? This is insane,’” Rianna Simons, 21, said of working alongside “very lovely, very talented people in a crazy, beautiful environment.” Simons, a Bermudian British writer who lives in London, almost didn’t come, she said, laughing, because she initially thought the email about her play “White Girls Gang” was a scam.
There are no hard and fast rules for the fellows in the program, called Substratum, which was conceived by Harris (“Slave Play,” “Daddy”), a graduate of the Yale School of Drama, who judged the competition.
“I just want people to write,” he said in an interview this week. The finalists, who were among those who submitted about 1,700 works, are “writers doing something a little different,” he said. “A little off the beaten path.”
The prize went to Jesús Valles for “Bathhouse.pptx,” a play exploring queer history. But because Valles, who is pursuing a Master of Fine Arts in playwriting, was unable to leave studies at Brown University, the slot went to Raffaella Donatich, Harris’ former assistant and an “exciting emerging writer,” Harris said, adding that she was invited on the strength of her pilot “Sex Act.”
The other fellows, all at various stages of their careers, agreed that having the time to write without distractions — and not having to sweat the small stuff — was the real reward.
“There’s something about having everything taken care of,” said Chloë Myerson, a 32-year-old writer from London whose play “Class” was shortlisted. Being outside her normal life felt almost like a “weird punishment,” she said, “because as a writer, I’m always trying to carve out space” from the demands of work, relationships and life.
For Donatich, 26, who lives in New York, having “so much unstructured time” was forcing her “to define the reasons why I like the thing I claim to like to do.”
And Asa Haynes, 27, an actor turned playwright from London who was recognized for “RACISM: an unfocused theater essay,” said the experience was giving his imagination free rein.
“Writing isn’t necessarily sitting down at a table with a glass of water or a cup of tea listening to some music. It’s also taking in the sun, the views, going to the spa and having a very hot sauna,” he said. “Writing is actually a lot more thinking and ruminating.”
This sort of pampering is exactly what Harris envisioned for the fellows participating in the residency — the first, he hopes, of many.
The residency is sponsored by Gucci, the luxury brand Harris has worked with.
“I always remind them that the only reason they know who I am is because of the theater, and so it feels disingenuous of me to accept a paycheck without figuring out a way to bring it back to the theater somehow,” he said.
Having spent time in Italy during pandemic lockdown, he decided it was the perfect place for writers to immerse themselves in an unfamiliar culture and “get the type of inspiration that can really shift an artist’s brain from the consciousness of society that you’re a part of to some new amalgamation of the expat brain.”
He was introduced to Michael L. Cioffi, owner of Monteverdi Tuscany, the boutique property where the fellows are staying. (Monteverdi is underwriting many of the on-property expenses and experiences, like the pasta-making classes.) Cioffi, a Cincinnati-based lawyer, came to Tuscany about two decades ago, and later encountered the decaying hilltop hamlet of Castiglioncello del Trinoro, about halfway between Florence and Rome.
An initial purchase became a passion project, and eventually Cioffi bought many of the hamlet’s houses, transforming abandoned stables and dilapidated farmhouses into guest rooms, a restaurant and a wellness center and spa. Only a few original residents remain.
From the start, Cioffi said in a Zoom interview, he conceived of the Monteverdi as a “place to share with people but also create a platform where people could really experience the arts in a meaningful way.” He established an artist-in-residence program and a concert series; the property had already attracted the likes of Wes Anderson, who, according to hotel lore, wrote “The Grand Budapest Hotel” there.
Harris said of the space: “I was like, well, it already has been like the muse has already wandered the halls there, and I want to meet her and see what she has to offer us.”
The group is sharing a six-bedroom house called Muri Antichi (Ancient Walls) with en-suite bathrooms, and spacious common rooms where they’ve been gathering after dinner to watch movies.
Days are mostly self-structured for the fellows. Mentoring has been informal as well. Harris said he was as eager to learn “from everyone here” as he was to mentor the playwrights.
For DJ Hills, 27, whose play “Trunk Brief Jock Thong” was shortlisted, the pampering is a “because you’re worth it” moment.
“There is so much flagellation as an artist; I need to be constantly throwing myself onto the ground for my work,” Hills said, adding that time in the spa has been a gift. “I, as an artist, am worth the 30 minutes to be here.”
As for Harris, he is keen to work on projects that had been put on the back burner while he basked in the success of his Tony-nominated “Slave Play” and sundry other projects, which, besides modeling for Gucci, include releasing a capsule collection, producing plays, writing for television and cinema, and performing in the Netflix series “Emily in Paris.”
“I need to get back to my actual writing,” he said, “because while it’s been really exciting to support other people, I am still an artist, you know, so I need to create my art.”
In the coming weeks, the fellows will encounter a range of artists (and possibly producers), including filmmakers Pete Ohs (“Jethica”) and Eliza Hittman (“Never Rarely Sometimes Always,” “Beach Rats”), playwrights Jordan Tannahill and Jasmine Lee-Jones, and author Erika J. Simpson.
Harris’ experience in 2015 at MacDowell, a prestigious artists residency program in New Hampshire, also inspired this new program. He called that residency a confidence-boosting experience that “restructured my sense of self,” adding that he hoped the Tuscan experience would do the same for the fellows.
MacDowell also showed him the importance of sharing meals.
“That’s the only rule,” he added, “dinners where you can catch up on your day, see how things have gone,” and just talk.
Two recent meals were an indication of the sort of banter that takes place, with topics ranging from — and this is just a small sampling — playwrights contemporary and not (from Aristotle to David Ireland and plenty in between); Pier Paolo Pasolini (whose film “Theorem” they had watched the night before); K-dramas and their Shakespearean influences; British actors doing American accents (not so great, some said); Rainer Werner Fassbinder films; the biblical king David; olive oil; Shonda Rhimes (and how she’s not given enough credit for her innovations); a new stage adaptation of “Brokeback Mountain”; Michelin-starred restaurants; elaborate European film titles; and, because Monday was game night, good games to play (Spades, Exploding Kittens, Salad Bowl).
Before dinner, the fellows learned to make ravioli and picci, a local pasta.
“Also theater, you know,” said Harris, who had earlier described meals he’d eaten in terms of the pleasure he’d gotten from the chef’s storytelling, even more than the food.
The group kneaded and rolled out the dough and joked happily.
“Jeremy’s like the most wonderful fairy godmother,” Hills said. “We’re very fortunate to have him.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Writers; Artists; Meals; Motion pictures; Writing; Theater; Dramatists

Location: Italy; New York; United States--US

People: Harris, Jeremy O

Identifier / keyword: Netflix Inc; Great Britain; Ireland, David (Playwright); Ohs, Pete; Italy; Cooking And Cookbooks; Gucci; Television; New Hampshire; Colleges And Universities; Never Rarely Sometimes Always (Movie); Pasolini, Pier Paolo; Movies; Arts; Rhimes, Shonda; Entertainment; Povoledo, Elisabetta; Fassbinder, Rainer Werner; Yale University; London (England); Anderson, Wes; Florence (Italy); Culture (Arts); Yale School Of Drama; Europe; Tony Awards (Theater Awards); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Pasta; Rome (Italy); Music; Brown University; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Michelin Guide; Spas; Writing And Writers; Shakespeare, William; Theater; Jones, Lee (Actor); Saunas And Sweat Lodges; Brokeback Mountain (Opera); Daddy (Play); Slave Play (Play); Michelin Group; Macdowell Colony; Budapest (Hungary); Harris, Jeremy O; Hittman, Eliza; Luxury Goods And Services; Books And Literature; Tuscany (Italy)

Title: Jeremy O. Harris’ Writers Residency Under the Tuscan Sun

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-24T22:00:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790147179

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jeremy-o-harris-writers-residency-under-tuscan/docview/2790147179/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Designer's Farewell, Moschino Loses Laughs: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/designers-farewell-moschino-loses-laughs/docview/2789590960/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a fashion world surprise, the designer is leaving the Italian label he has helmed for 10 years.
Fashion is about to get a little less funny. In yet another major industry surprise, Jeremy Scott is leaving his post as the creative director of Moschino, the brand's parent company said in a statement on Monday. His departure ends a 10-year tenure that rejuvenated the brand by using it as a vehicle to poke fun at consumerism while simultaneously celebrating it in visual stunts tailor-made for the Instagram era. No successor has been named.
After the designer Alessandro Michele left Gucci in November, the move will further reshape the Italian fashion world, where Mr. Scott's ability to inject a kind of ironic postmodern pop humor into clothes catapulted Moschino to new relevance.
The brand became a favorite of celebrities such as Miley Cyrus, who once wore a Moschino T-shirt dress splashed with the words "I had nothing to wear so I put on this Moschino dress," and Katy Perry, who wore a Moschino chandelier and a Moschino hamburger to the Met Gala in 2019.
Massimo Ferretti, the chairman of Aeffe, the group that owns Moschino, in a statement thanked Mr. Scott for "ushering in a distinct and joyful vision that will forever be a part of Moschino history."
Mr. Scott, 47, who grew up in Kansas City, Mo., and studied at the Pratt Institute in New York, was only the third designer to lead the house, which was founded by Franco Moschino in 1983 to celebrate the virtues of elegant irreverence. After Mr. Moschino's death in 1994 from complications of AIDS, Rosella Jardini took over, gamely carrying on the legacy until Mr. Scott arrived in 2013 with his own sense of subversive humor.
Almost immediately, his way with a fashion pun resonated with a generation reared on social media (so much so that in 2015, Mr. Scott was tapped to redesign the "Moonman" statuette given to winners at MTV's Video Music Awards). Mr. Scott sent riffs on McDonald's and Barbie down the runway, made Le Smokings that were literally smoking in a nod to the Bonfire of the Vanities, and last September created an entire ode to inflatables because -- well, you know, inflation (and who can't use a life raft now and again?).
When Covid-19 put live fashion shows on hold, Mr. Scott presented a collection worn by marionettes crafted in Jim Henson's studio. He populated the show's pseudo front row with puppet versions of fashion editors like Anna Wintour and Edward Enninful, inviting watchers to ponder the question of who in fashion really pulls the strings.
A dress Mr. Scott designed for a Moschino collection inspired by game-show kitsch, which featured an entire TV dinner on its train, played a starring role in the Metropolitan Museum of Art's 2019 exhibition "Camp: Notes on Fashion." (That dress was one of about 15 Moschino outfits in the show.) Alongside the runway stunts, Mr. Scott was canny enough to offer special collections with T-shirts and phone cases, allowing everyone access to his Moschino world.
Sometimes the jokes could fall flat, but overall the result was a boom in sales, at least until last year. In 2022, Aeffe -- which also owns the brands Alberta Ferretti, Philosophy di Lorenzo Serafini and Pollini -- reported a loss of nine million euros (about $ 10 million) on revenues of 352 million euros (about $ 377 million), thanks in part to complications in China.
"He took chances, but always with a sense of fun," said Robert Burke, the founder of a namesake luxury consultancy, of Mr. Scott. "He was a great match for Moschino."
Though Mr. Scott had maintained his own eponymous brand throughout most of his time at Moschino, in recent seasons it has been put on hold. Whether it will now be revived, or whether, as he once suggested, he will move into movies, Mr. Scott did not reveal. In a text message from Seoul, where he is introducing a new collaboration with Hyundai, he simply said, "Every book has chapters and as I end this chapter, I am excited to share with the world my next chapter."
It is unclear whether Mr. Scott's tenure at Moschino ended because of a shift in the general mood in the industry, which is turning away from buzz-making theatrics and toward "timelessness" as sales of classic luxury brands including Chanel and Hermès soar, or whether, as some conventional wisdom has it, a decade is simply long enough for a single creative director to helm a fashion house. Both Mr. Scott and the Aeffe group declined to elaborate on the statement announcing his departure.
The fashion game of designer musical chairs continues.
Photograph Top, the designer Jeremy Scott arriving at last year's Met Gala with the actress Ariana DeBose. Above, Katy Perry dressed as a Moschino chandelier at the 2019 Met Gala. Right, a dress from the Moschino spring 2023 collection was an ode to inflatables. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NINA WESTERVELT/ THE NEW YORK TIMES; KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; VICTOR BOYKO/ GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Art galleries & museums

People: Perry, Katy

Company / organization: Name: Moschino; NAICS: 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/20/style/jeremy-scott-leaves-moschino.html

Title: In Designer's Farewell, Moschino Loses Laughs:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 23, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2789590960

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/designers-farewell-moschino-loses-laughs/docview/2789590960/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Men's Luxury Market Isn't What You Think: [Style Desk]

Author: Caramanica, Jon

Publication info: Caramanica, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mens-luxury-market-isnt-what-you-think/docview/2789590950/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a floor-through loft in SoHo one Friday night in January, Vincent Ferraro was selling luxury clothing. Sort of.
On one side of the room, a tattoo artist covered a young woman's palm in an illustration of a bankroll. Some people flipped casually through the racks of Chrome Hearts and Enfants Riches Déprimés, but Mr. Ferraro -- sinewy, with a shaved head and covered in tattoos -- didn't pay them much mind. Instead, he poured shots of Patrón, posed for Instagram photos and occasionally disappeared with one of the several women who had come to vie for his attention.
On the men's resale clothing site Grailed, Mr. Ferraro, who before the pandemic worked in nightlife, most recently as general manager and creative director of Rose Bar at the Gramercy Park Hotel, sells under the handle 4GSELLER, and in the last couple of years, has become the go-to for rare Chrome Hearts, recent-season Louis Vuitton statement pieces and thrashed vintage dirtbag T-shirts, building a business that he says has annual revenue in the low seven figures.
"I did take, like, a big page out of what I did hospitality-wise and integrate it into what I'm doing," Mr. Ferraro, 32, said a few weeks before the party, relaxing in the showroom one afternoon in a Yankees fitted cap, white T-shirt and Louis Vuitton ski pants. On the couch next to him he had a small pile of new Chrome Hearts inventory, and one piece in particular stood out: heavyweight black leather cargo pants with exaggerated pockets and built-to-last hardware.
The pants had an original retail price, he said, of around $ 6,000 to $ 7,000, but he was planning on listing them for north of $ 20,000. "The guy who got these waited a year," he noted, referring to the sometimes lengthy wait for Chrome Hearts orders. "But people aren't coming here to wait a year. They're coming to walk out with them right now. So there's a value to that."
Still, $ 20,000 is a few mortgage payments, a diamond necklace, a painting, maybe a small car. Is there no sticker shock?
"I sold three of these already," he said, not even blinking.
Welcome to the wild world of men's luxury resale, which has begun to boom in recent years, owing in large part to the graduation of the young male customer who came of age in the era of limited-edition sneakers and Supreme items as asset classes, and for whom hip-hop icons and sports superstars are also high-fashion heroes.
All of those trends have primed the pump for the luxury men's resale market, which is broadening rapidly, a growth captured in sellers like Mr. Ferraro; Justin Reed, whose Los Angeles showroom has become a celebrity playpen; and Luke Fracher, something of a modern garmento, who recently opened Luke's, the first buy-sell-trade shop in New York for this generation of men's luxury clothing.
"We're seeing the streetwear-ification of high-end," Mr. Fracher said over dinner in January at Ludlow House in Manhattan, a few blocks from his narrow-corridor shop just north of Dimes Square. Which is to say that the category of current men's luxury isn't Loro Piana and Kiton, but rather Louis Vuitton and Balenciaga, Chrome Hearts and Rick Owens, rare Nikes and archival Raf Simons.
That evolution has been unfolding for more than a decade. There's an explicit through line from Riccardo Tisci's invigoration of Givenchy in the early 2010s to Alessandro Michele's psychedelic-tapestry rebrand of Gucci, to Kim Jones's streamlining of Dior to, of course, Virgil Abloh's up-from-spare-parts reconstruction of Louis Vuitton. And by remaking Nike and Vuitton simultaneously, Mr. Abloh implicitly linked their audiences, making clear that a luxury item is something people are willing to splurge on, regardless of which company made it.
Mr. Fracher, 34, was a founder of the Round Two empire, which during the 2010s turned the secondhand T-shirt trade into a multimillion-dollar concern with nine locations in five cities. He left Round Two last year and opened Luke's in December, betting that some of the customer base that cut its teeth on streetwear and sneakers would be ready to upgrade to something fancier.
He also pointed to how insatiable social media feeds have created persistent and renewable demand for luxury clothing. "First of all, it's the homogenization of how everyone dresses in every city across the world," he said, emphasizing how clothing has become a globally spoken language. "And then it's the need to flex nonstop and the need to have new clothing all the time, so you can post fit pics and get the dopamine hit and hopefully get some clout off it."
Because he buys his inventory outright and has little room for storage, Mr. Fracher wants to move product quickly, most likely leaving him with thinner margins than those of Mr. Ferraro or Mr. Reed, who operate as showrooms with online presence.
Mr. Reed's space, in a warehouse building in the downtown Los Angeles arts district, is bucolic and soothing, almost spalike. At the center of the main room sits a four-section de Sede Terrazza sofa from the early 1970s, still in its original beige leather, that he bought from a Hollywood producer. It's been a fixture on his Instagram for a few years, giving him a unique, sophisticated visual identity as his website, which he started in 2017, was getting on its feet.
Now Mr. Reed, 35, is one of the most trusted names in men's luxury resale. At his showroom, which during a December visit was decorated with a Givenchy surfboard, artwork by Joyce Pensato and a bench from the spring 2022 Louis Vuitton runway show, he entertains celebrity clients like the boxer Gervonta Davis, the Buffalo Bills wide receiver Stefon Diggs, the longtime fashion plate Luka Sabbat and Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, point guard for the Oklahoma City Thunder, all memorialized in a wall of Polaroids. (Mr. Reed said that only about a quarter of his business comes from celebrity clients.)
Mr. Reed, in a St. John's hoodie -- his alma mater -- and Balenciaga Strike boots, described himself as "a self-taught street kid." Born and raised in New York, he sold photocopiers door to door before beginning to resell sneakers online in the mid-2010s. Once he began focusing on luxury men's items, he effectively helped make the marketplace thanks to a sleek web presence and a reputation for sourcing rare pieces. Last year, he sold one of the only known jackets by Pastelle, an early Kanye West brand, to Kim Kardashian. Like Mr. Ferraro, he does brisk trade in Chrome Hearts, especially odd, rare items like a leather case for jumper cables, or a weight bench.
Unlike Mr. Ferraro, he runs most of his business on consignment -- his 2022 revenue was approximately $ 8 million, he said, roughly doubling each year since 2019. His average website order is $ 1,300, he said, and around 100,000 people visit his site each month with almost no advertising.
Broadly speaking, hip-hop is to thank. Rappers began to embrace luxury fashion in the 1990s and 2000s just as the genre was muscling its way to the center of American pop music. By the 2000s, Kanye West and Pharrell Williams were deepening the ties between music and fashion, making way for the generation of ASAP Rocky and Tyler, the Creator, followed by Travis Scott and Playboi Carti. (This attitude has spilled over into professional sports, especially basketball and football, where players are now routinely filmed and photographed in the outfits they arrive at games wearing.)
In a way, high-fashion items have supplanted the rapper chain as the de rigueur splashy purchase. "You got to be dripped out to show people like, 'Hey, I'm here and I'm going to wear $ 10,000 jeans, drag 'em on the ground, and I'm going to make more money,"' Mr. Ferraro said.
By the mid-2010s, being a fan of hip-hop almost implicitly meant becoming a style aficionado, and starting to learn to dress the part. Around the same time, Grailed was introduced, formalizing a chaotic web of sales that mostly took place in online forums and building a true, transparent marketplace out of what had largely been hand-to-hand transactions. Furthermore, no longer did someone have to speak in the specific argot of forum loyalists in order to have access to rare product.
Arun Gupta, the co-founder and chief executive of Grailed -- which last year was acquired by the GOAT Group, which also owns the sneaker reseller Flight Club -- said that sales of luxury clothing had grown year over year, thanks to increased customer education.
"The level of knowledge has gone crazy," Mr. Gupta said. "The number of fashion brands that the average fashion person knows has probably 10x'd. Self-expression in the '90s was your CD collection, but in the 2020s, it's about your closet."
Before Grailed, to the extent that there was luxury resale for men's clothing at all, it was limited to consignment shops, like the one Ina Bernstein opened on Thompson Street in Manhattan in the early 1990s. Originally, she did not carry men's clothing in her namesake store. Eventually, some trickled in -- suits and ties, Armani and Calvin Klein, maybe a little Yohji. By the mid-1990s, she had opened a small men's-only storefront on Mott Street. Customers were dedicated, but scant. Men weren't quite ready. "It was very weird for them to think about trying on someone else's clothes," she said in a phone interview last month.
But the social conventions of male dress were on the verge of disruption. Soon, luxury houses were making more than officewear for men, and a wider swath of male consumers took an interest in expensive clothes. Ms. Bernstein's customer base widened accordingly, she said: "It's drastically changed. Many men who do not work in the fashion business, never went to art school. They're just walking-down-the-street men, and they all love fashion."
Even just a decade ago, the audience for some of the rarer men's luxury items was almost comically small. Alex Kasavin, before opening Idol in Brooklyn in 2014, resold niche high-end men's clothing, like Carol Christian Poell and early Rick Owens, through a showroom called the Gray Market beginning in 2012. "There was a time with those brands, for these key pieces, I would know almost every owner," Mr. Kasavin said. "There wasn't a whole generation that grew up on it. Now there is, and that generation has buying power."
It also has a robust understanding of how clothing in this category holds its value. "It's like buying stocks now," Mr. Gupta said, adding that expensive purchases now involve less risk because of the stability of the resale market.
This growing market is also attracting the attention of luxury brands and retailers. Mr. Reed said that he had been approached by larger fashion players interested in forming a partnership with him: "I think I can be the Barneys of the secondary market."
Mr. Ferraro, for his part, would rather remain niche. "I'm not trying to be, like, a $ 50 million business," he said. "I'm trying to stay genuine to the products." He sells across the modern luxury spectrum, including Saint Laurent and "Decarnin-era only" Balmain, but Chrome Hearts is his bread and butter and, in a way, his public persona. He is effectively a stand-in for his customer base, which includes rappers like Lil Tecca, rockers like Travis Barker, and athletes like Odell Beckham Jr. and Travis Kelce, who stopped by Mr. Ferraro's showroom not long after his Kansas City Chiefs won the Super Bowl last month.
"Tecca or Odell will come here, and we'll go out after," Mr. Ferraro said. "And then we'll come back here, and they'll buy clothes." He once was summoned to Offset and Cardi B's home on Father's Day to show Cardi some rare Chrome Hearts pieces. He has even sold vintage Chrome Hearts to Kristian Stark, scion of the brand's family.
But he's not precious, believing that even at these perilous prices, these garments are meant to be worn. The day before the interview, a handyman had been in the showroom doing some work. "We had the TaskRabbit in Chrome!" Mr. Ferraro exulted.
Mr. Fracher said that Mr. Ferraro's casual roisterousness was central to his appeal. "I knew Vincent from Rose Bar," Mr. Fracher said. "He used to comp us tables and bottles. He's a psycho like me. Vinny is, like, almost like a fashion house designer. Like, he reminds me of Hedi or Demna, in the sense that he built a lifestyle and then portrays it." (Nightlife is in Mr. Ferraro's blood -- one of his uncles is Ron Galella.)
Mr. Reed, on the other hand, is "like a jeweler," Mr. Fracher said. Of the three sellers, Mr. Reed's business is the biggest, and his attention to the market is finely detailed. He's made a few micro-markets in recent years, getting in early on the Chrome Hearts denim resurgence and selling some of the only Prada collaborations with Frank Ocean's luxury brand Homer that have hit the resale market.
What the ceiling for this luxury resale marketplace may be is yet to be determined. Clothes are increasingly detached from scene and subculture, so there are many more style propositions in demand at any given moment. But there's only so much product of this level being manufactured, and only some of it is in circulation at any given time.
"The athletes, the entertainers -- they hold, they don't want to sell," Mr. Reed said. "What I think they like is having a closet that's like a store."
Often, Mr. Reed and Mr. Fracher find themselves selling to other resellers in different cities, or with different clienteles. "Part of what keeps the market propped up is that so many people see what those guys are doing and want to do it," Mr. Kasavin said.
If Mr. Ferraro is a lifestyle ambassador and Mr. Reed is an asset manager, then Mr. Fracher is a yenta. A freewheeling presence on TikTok and Instagram, blending his thorough knowledge of the marketplace with a sense of wry exasperation, it sometimes feels as if he is advertising clothes by indicating how preposterous he finds them. To sit with him over a few afternoons of haggling is to become lightly unromantic about the purported exclusivity of luxury clothing. Expensive items, some rare, seemed to walk in out of nowhere.
"Luke is really the new Ina," Mr. Kasavin said.
Mr. Fracher traded two smallish Rick Owens jackets for a few Balenciaga pieces from a fashion hound wearing an early Vetements hoodie. One man tried to sell him the Enfants Riches Déprimés hoodie off his back, but couldn't agree on a price. Someone came in to offload a shirt from Yeezy Season 5. "No one is buying that," Mr. Fracher shrugged.
Seeing these expensive items treated so casually threatened to undermine the concept of luxury itself. If everyone is dressing up, then is anyone really dressing up? But it also suggested the true circularity of the marketplace, the scale of available supply, and the potential for endlessly renewable demand, even in the face of a possible recession.
Mr. Fracher is not overly preoccupied by these philosophical concerns, though. "I think as the real wealth gap keeps growing, more and more normal people are going to want to cosplay as rich people, and this is the easiest way to do so," he said. "I'll be here for them."
Photograph Vincent Ferraro, left, and items, from top: Chrome Hearts pants; Nike Dunks customized by Matty Boy; a snakeskin Chrome Hearts overshirt. Below left, a showroom party guest getting a tattoo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAFAEL RIOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6); Justin Reed, above left, at his downtown Los Angeles showroom and, from top, a Louis Vuitton multipatches mixed-leather varsity blouson and a Hermes Birkin 50 bag. Far left, Luke Fracher, and clockwise from left, the scene at Luke's on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on opening day in December, a vest by the clothing customizer Dr. Romanelli and Rick Owens Bauhaus cargo pants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX WELSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) This article appeared in print on page D6, D7.

Subject: Clothing; Professional football; Celebrities; Inventory

Business indexing term: Subject: Inventory

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: West, Kanye

Company / organization: Name: Chrome Hearts; NAICS: 458310; Name: Balenciaga; NAICS: 541490; Name: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; NAICS: 312130, 315210, 316990, 325620, 339910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/23/style/mens-fashion-resale-20000-pants-and-other-adventures-in-mens-luxury-resale.html

Title: The Men's Luxury Market Isn't What You Think:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 23, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2789590950

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mens-luxury-market-isnt-what-you-think/docview/2789590950/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Oscars Fashion Beyond Marketing: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/oscars-fashion-beyond-marketing/docview/2787058354/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Everything Everywhere All at Once" may have been the big winner of the 95th Academy Awards, a vote by the industry for idiosyncrasy in the face of corporate moviemaking, but on the red -- whoops, sorry, champagne -- carpet, classicism ruled.
Its color may have changed, reportedly in an effort to inject some modernity into the arrivals/runway show portion of the evening (Oh, Jennifer Connelly, a Louis Vuitton ambassador, in Louis Vuitton? What a surprise!), but its ethos hasn't, that much.
Except ... except: Just as the triumph of "Everything" may offer a new way forward for filmmaking, a select few Oscar attendees eschewed predictability for some quirkier, more emotive choices, and in doing so added a touch of zest to the familiar old recipe. Rather than act as an advertising vehicle for a brand, they seemed more like co-conspirators, moving beyond the safety of promotion to expose some personal style. It's riskier (kind of like a movie about the multiverse featuring an everything bagel) but also more engaging to see.
There was Rihanna, for example, making her entrance fashionably late in a leather Alaia bra and long leather bandage skirt that opened and closed at the hips like some sort of super-glamorous armor, worn over a sheer body suit, the better to bare her pregnant belly. And that was just for openers. She changed into a Maison Margiela Art Deco-like silver beaded top and silver brocade pants to perform her nominated song "Lift Me Up," and then changed again, into a mint-green Bottega Veneta bias-cut silk skirt and matching stole, for afters: a play in pregnancy style in three acts and three brands where she -- and her stomach -- retained the starring role.
No one else swapped outfits with quite the same alacrity, but she wasn't the only one who brought some subversive attitude and private storytelling to the party.
Florence Pugh showed up in a Valentino strapless ocean of taffeta bedsheets with billowing sleeve-clouds attached to each elbow -- that parted in the center, like Moses, to reveal very abbreviated black bike shorts beneath, with a little pocket on the side for extra insouciance. (For anyone who remembers the Demi Moore self-designed bike short Oscar gown of 1989, this is the evolved version.)
Harry Shum Jr. got Adeam to custom-make him a white smoking jacket piped in midnight blue, wrapped in an obi-like belt to represent, he said -- after doing a little soft shoe shuffle -- "East meets West." Hong Chau, of "The Whale," asked Prada to add a mandarin collar to her shell pink gown to represent, she said, her roots. And Malala Yousafzai, an executive producer of the short film "Stranger at the Gate," in silver sequined Ralph Lauren with an integral hood/head scarf, demonstrated that high glamour and cultural values were not oppositional entities.
It was a reminder of the bigger context around these moments of shared pop culture escapism, which may also help explain the preponderance of white, by far the most popular color of the evening, and one that calls to mind fresh starts and peace, among other associations. (That's one way to read it anyway; "Navalny" did win for best documentary, and assorted attendees were wearing blue ribbons to stand #WithRefugees.) See Michelle Yeoh, whose precedent-setting best actress win will also make her swan-like Dior gown a part of Hollywood history, and, perhaps, usher in a new era. Also Mindy Kaling, in corseted Vera Wang, the boning exposed; Rooney Mara, wrapped in Alexander McQueen mist; Emily Blunt in a strapless Valentino column; and Paul Mescal in a Gucci white dinner jacket with extra-wide lapels.
In a show of true "I wore it first" power, Lady Gaga's Versace came straight from that brand's Los Angeles runway show the Thursday night before the Oscars, trumped in the statement-making stakes only by her expectation-defying and entirely nonbranded (nonbranded!) switcheroo into a washed-out black T-shirt and ripped jeans to perform. Meanwhile, Nicole Kidman's one-armed sequined Armani had asymmetric oompf, and Elizabeth Olsen's backless Givenchy offered a little slithery fringe as a finale. As for Danai Gurira, her Jason Wu gown was understated elegance incarnate.
Then there were the princess gowns: acres of tulle modeled by Sofia Carson in white Giambattista Valli, Stephanie Hsu in Valentino, and Halle Bailey in sea-foam green Dolce & Gabbana. Such fairy-tale frippery is an undeniable red carpet cliché, but at least when it came to Ms. Bailey, the look was also a clever nod to her role as Ariel, a.k.a. the Little Mermaid, in the upcoming film; a bit of strategic movie-marketing magic and a fashion double entendre that took the dress to a whole different level. (Also, let's be grateful for small favors: A princess gown trumps the even more tired cliché of a mermaid gown every time. At least the wearer can walk.)
The move that deserves the most applause, both from a personal style and point-making perspective, however, is the embrace of vintage. Ms. Mara's McQueen hailed from a 2008 collection; Winnie Harlow stepped out in Armani circa 2005; Vanessa Hudgens wore old Chanel; and Cate Blanchett appeared in a Louis Vuitton top with jutting shoulders that had been unearthed from the archives, paired with a bias-cut sustainable silk skirt for a serious Joan Crawford vibe.
If the awards show circuit has become in part a piece of promotional fashion content, this was a potent reminder that the attention paid to what everyone wears can actually be used for a higher purpose than just promoting new stuff. Unlike the decision to swap the carpet's color, the reworn looks actually made the de facto catwalk seem relevant.
Photograph Florence Pugh in Valentino Couture gown and shorts. (D1); Top, from left: Rihanna, Halle Bailey, Stephanie Hsu and Sofia Carson. Near left, Cate Blanchett. Far left, clockwise from top: Rooney Mara, Mindy Kaling and Michelle Yeoh. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D2) This article appeared in print on page D1, D2.

Subject: Handbags & purses; Fashion designers

People: Yeoh, Michelle; Kaling, Mindy; Blanchett, Cate; Bailey, Halle; Pugh, Florence; Mara, Rooney

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/13/style/oscar-fashion-marketing.html

Title: Oscars Fashion Beyond Marketing:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 16, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2787058354

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/oscars-fashion-beyond-marketing/docview/2787058354/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Memorable Collection of Looks and Visionaries

Author: (Tag bylines with individual items)

Publication info: (Tag bylines with individual items). 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/memorable-collection-looks-visionaries/docview/2786258933/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Fashion weeks have been happening around the world for almost two straight months. They started with the menswear shows in January, which were followed by the couture shows, which were followed by the four consecutive fashion weeks in New York, London, Milan and Paris. (Somehow, Copenhagen managed to squeeze in its fashion week during this time, too.)
We covered most every spectacle in real time, but there were other moments we flagged to revisit. Some became lodged in our brains because they made us smile. Others made us gag, or think. Whatever the reason, all were things that kept us talking long after we first saw them.
A Revolutionary Take on Straps ...
Have you ever wished you could hike up your long skirt or coat for day, and let it down when the moment arrived? Presenting the skirt strap (at Loewe). Or the parka strap (at Hermès). Worn over one shoulder à la handbag, but attached to the hem of a garment — or to an enormous pocket that acts like a handbag (at Sacai) — the straps allow the wearer to customize the length of their outfit: the epitome of an incredibly obvious, very smart innovation we can’t believe no one has thought of before. — Vanessa Friedman
... And Denim Scraps
Upcycling has been gaining steam for awhile now on the runway. But rarely have leftover scraps looked as gorgeous as they did at Y/Project, where what appeared to be hanging gardens of embroidered bougainvillea or whole networks of lacy capillaries on little black dresses and chiffon evening gowns turned out to be … shreds of old denim. Sometimes inspiration really is in the jeans. — V.F.
Robot Dogs
For the second season in a row, Coperni designers Sébastien Meyer and Arnaud Vaillant might have been responsible for the most viral moment of fashion week. The duo — who last fall had a machine spray paint a dress onto the nearly naked body of model Bella Hadid — at their latest show had a pack of robot dogs prowl the runway like wolves as models made their way down it. One of the robots went so far as to caress a model’s face before tugging a jacket from her shoulders with its arm. Cool or creepy? Neither we, nor the internet, could decide. — Elizabeth Paton
Frog Clogs
There was a frisson of delight when models paraded down the runway at the JW Anderson men’s show in skivvies and pairs of joyously silly green frog clogs produced in partnership with Wellipets, a British rainwear brand best known for its googly-eyed, frog-toed Wellington boots. Though designer Jonathan Anderson had offered a sneak preview of JW Anderson’s collaboration with Wellipets in advance of the show, that did not stop the clogs from providing what Highsnobiety called the “serotonin boost” that many in the crowd needed. — Guy Trebay
Crowd-Surfing Models
Sunnei’s founders, Loris Messina and Simone Rizzo, warned guests that their show contained some element of audience participation via pamphlets dispersed at the door. But even with the heads up, there were still gasps when the first model to walk down the elevated runway fell backward into the crowd, as if trust falling into the audience. Then the crowd surfing began. All of the models were employees of the young brand, a detail that Messina and Rizzo said underscored the show’s concept: For a brief moment, Sunnei was literally being held up and supported by its audience. — Jessica Testa
Rose-Scented Dresses
Susan Fang, one of China’s most exciting emerging designers, often finds inspiration in nature. This season, dried petals formed the runway at her namesake brand’s show, which featured several breathtaking dresses that filled the air with a rose-scented mist as models walked by. The mist was funneled through tentacle-like appendages attached to the garments, and released by sprinklers woven into their crinoline skirts. The technology was developed by Fang’s father, who owns a factory that produces equipment for Shanghai’s fire department. — E.P.
Transcendent Menswear
Though categorized as menswear, that is hardly the term for designer Willy Chavarria’s latest collection of starkly tailored clothing in silhouettes evocative of a priest moonlighting as zoot-suiter. At once elegiac and sanguine, Chavarria’s show this February was the most potent proof yet of his rightful place at the forefront of American design. This was evident from its very start, when Dorian Wood — a multidisciplinary artist who breezes past artistic and gender norms — opened the show by serenading the audience while descending the wood-paneled stairs of the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum in a voluminous off-the-shoulder dress and with slick-backed hair festooned with a white silk flower. — G.T.
Light-Up ‘Makeup’
Once upon a time, designer Mowalola Ogunlesi was a right-hand woman to Ye, formerly Kanye West, as design director of Yeezy Gap. But these days, Ogunlesi is making waves all on her own. For her brand’s New York-themed show at London Fashion Week, which explored technology’s ever-stronger grip on our everyday lives, she collaborated with makeup artist Isamaya Ffrench, who covered models with tiny LED lights that when lit looked more like gems on their faces and bodies. Talk about a glow up! — E.P.
Color-Changing Coats
Kunihiko Morinaga, the designer of Anrealage, has a taste for playing tricks on the eye and tickling the mind with clothes that challenge perceptions. At his latest show, pairs of models walked onto a stage in nearly identical white jackets and robes made from materials like faux fur, jacquards and lace. The models stood there as an ultraviolet light descended and scanned their garments, which under the light transformed into vibrantly colored and patterned pieces. (Morinaga said that out in the wild, the clothes’ transformations would depend on the weather and seasons.) Call it the magic of fashion week. — E.P.
Armani Evokes Rihanna
If Rihanna can whip out some product and ostentatiously powder her nose during the Super Bowl, Giorgio Armani can have his last model do the same during his show. Out she came, wearing a fringed skull cap and a long black dress covered in sequins, the final look of a collection inspired by maquillage and the rituals of beauty. Brandished in the model’s hands were a cosmetic puff and an open compact, which not only allowed her to admire her (admittedly fabulous) look all the way down the runway, but also reminded watchers where the real ka-ching of luxury brands is generated. — V.F.
‘Werk’ Wear
A frequent reference for designer Aaron Potts is the visionary American jazz musician Sun Ra and his extravagantly costumed Arkestra ensemble. Since Potts started his namesake independent label, Apotts, he has cultivated a similarly devoted group of followers, collaborators and friends. The designer’s latest presentation featured members of that tribe in all their glorious dispersion, clothed in genderless garments including hooded dresses, knit yeti coats and drop-crotch “werksuits” like the one Queen Latifah wore soon afterward at the NAACP awards. — G.T.
Jared Leto’s Front-Row Tour
They sought him at Acne. They sought him at Off-White. They sought him at Chanel. Like the Scarlet Pimpernel, Jared Leto seemed to be everywhere during Paris Fashion Week. Maybe the actor was at show after show to shop for a new brand because his BFF and former semi-personal couturier, Alessandro Michele, left Gucci last fall. Maybe Leto was researching his next big role as designer Karl Lagerfeld in a biopic that the actor is also co-producing. Or maybe he was just figuring out what he wants to wear to the next Met Gala, which for Leto may be more like a meta gala: It is honoring Lagerfeld. — V.F. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Clothing; Menswear; Design; Fashion models; Collaboration; Audiences; Designers

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Leto, Jared; Ffrench, Isamaya

Company / organization: Name: JW Anderson; NAICS: 315250, 541490

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Lagerfeld, Karl; Friedman, Vanessa V; Trebay, Guy; Smithsonian Inst itution; Highsnobiety (Magazine); Y/Project (Fashion Label); Shanghai (China); Great Britain; Anrealage Co Ltd; Trinny London Ltd; Ultraviolet (Shanghai, China, Restaurant); China; Queen Latifah; Sun Ra (1914 93); Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum; National Assn For The Advancement Of Colored People; Milan (Italy); Copenhagen (Denmark); Vaillant, Arnaud; Rihanna; Sacai (Fashion Label); Gap Inc; London (England); Apotts (Fashion Label); Leto, Jared; Hadid, Bella (1996 ); Sunnei Srl; Chavarria, Willy; Potts, Aaron; Michele, Alessandro; Meyer, Sebastien; Hermes International Sa; Acne Studios; Anderson, Jonathan William (1984 ); Armani, Giorgio, Spa; Ffrench, Isamaya; Coperni (Fashion Label); Chanel Sa; Gucci; Loewe Sa; Fur; Dresses; Actors And Actresses; Robots And Robotics; Gardens And Gardening; Minorities; Light; Frogs; Music; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Television; Parties (Social); Coats And Jackets; Theater; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Cosmetics And Toiletries; Textiles; Flowers And Plants; London Fashion Week; Paris Fashion Week; Milan Fashion Week; Couture Fashion Week; Design; Luxury Goods And Services; New York Fashion Week; Pop And Rock Music; Fashion And Apparel

Title: A Memorable Collection of Looks and Visionaries

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 13, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-13 @ 14:06

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2786258933

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/memorable-collection-looks-visionaries/docview/2786258933/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Memorable Collection Of Looks and Visionaries: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/memorable-collection-looks-visionaries/docview/2785847636/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Including frog clogs, denim scraps, robot dogs and scented dresses.
Fashion weeks have been happening around the world for almost two straight months. They started with the men's wear shows in January, which were followed by the couture shows, which were followed by the four consecutive fashion weeks in New York, London, Milan and Paris. (Somehow, Copenhagen managed to squeeze in its fashion week during this time, too.)
We covered most every spectacle in real time, but there were other moments we flagged to revisit. Some became lodged in our brains because they made us smile. Others made us gag, or think. Whatever the reason, all were things that kept us talking long after we first saw them.
A Revolutionary Take on Straps ...
Have you ever wished you could hike up your long skirt or coat for day, and let it down when the moment arrived? Presenting the skirt strap (at Loewe). Or the parka strap (at Hermès). Worn over one shoulder à la handbag, but attached to the hem of a garment -- or to an enormous pocket that acts like a handbag (at Sacai) -- the straps allow the wearer to customize the length of their outfit: the epitome of an incredibly obvious, very smart innovation we can't believe no one has thought of before. -- Vanessa Friedman
... And Denim Scraps
Upcycling has been gaining steam for awhile now on the runway. But rarely have leftover scraps looked as gorgeous as they did at Y/Project, where what appeared to be hanging gardens of embroidered bougainvillea or whole networks of lacy capillaries on little black dresses and chiffon evening gowns turned out to be ... shreds of old denim. Sometimes inspiration really is in the jeans. -- V.F.
Robot Dogs
For the second season in a row, the Coperni designers Sébastien Meyer and Arnaud Vaillant might have been responsible for the most viral moment of fashion week. The duo -- who last fall had a machine spray paint a dress onto the nearly naked body of the model Bella Hadid -- at their latest show had a pack of robot dogs prowl the runway like wolves as models made their way down it. One of the robots went so far as to caress a model's face before tugging a jacket from her shoulders with its arm. Cool or creepy? Neither we, nor the internet, could decide. -- Elizabeth Paton
Frog Clogs
There was a frisson of delight when models paraded down the runway at the JW Anderson men's show in skivvies and pairs of joyously silly green frog clogs produced in partnership with Wellipets, a British rainwear brand best known for its googly-eyed, frog-toed Wellington boots. Though the designer Jonathan Anderson had offered a sneak preview of JW Anderson's collaboration with Wellipets in advance of the show, that did not stop the clogs from providing what Highsnobiety called the "serotonin boost" that many in the crowd needed. -- Guy Trebay
Crowd-Surfing Models
Sunnei's founders, Loris Messina and Simone Rizzo, warned guests that their show contained some element of audience participation via pamphlets dispersed at the door. But even with the heads up, there were still gasps when the first model to walk down the elevated runway fell backward into the crowd, as if trust falling into the audience. Then the crowd surfing began. All of the models were employees of the young brand, a detail that Mr. Messina and Mr. Rizzo said underscored the show's concept: For a brief moment, Sunnei was literally being held up and supported by its audience. -- Jessica Testa
Rose-Scented Dresses
Susan Fang, one of China's most exciting emerging designers, often finds inspiration in nature. This season, dried petals formed the runway at her namesake brand's show, which featured several breathtaking dresses that filled the air with a rose-scented mist as models walked by. The mist was funneled through tentacle-like appendages attached to the garments, and released by sprinklers woven into their crinoline skirts. The technology was developed by Ms. Fang's father, who owns a factory that produces equipment for Shanghai's fire department. -- E.P.
Transcendent Men's Wear
Though categorized as men's wear, that is hardly the term for the designer Willy Chavarria's latest collection of starkly tailored clothing in silhouettes evocative of a priest moonlighting as zoot-suiter. At once elegiac and sanguine, Mr. Chavarria's show this February was the most potent proof yet of his rightful place at the forefront of American design. This was evident from its very start, when Dorian Wood -- a multidisciplinary artist who breezes past artistic and gender norms -- opened the show by serenading the audience while descending the wood-paneled stairs of the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum in a voluminous off-the-shoulder dress and with slick-backed hair festooned with a white silk flower. -- G.T.
Light-Up 'Makeup'
Once upon a time, the designer Mowalola Ogunlesi was a right-hand woman to Ye, formerly Kanye West, as the design director of Yeezy Gap. But these days, Ms. Ogunlesi is making waves all on her own. For her brand's New York-themed show at London Fashion Week, which explored technology's ever-stronger grip on our everyday lives, she collaborated with the makeup artist Isamaya Ffrench, who covered models with tiny LED lights that when lit looked more like gems on their faces and bodies. Talk about a glow up! -- E.P.
Color-Changing Coats
Kunihiko Morinaga, the designer of Anrealage, has a taste for playing tricks on the eye and tickling the mind with clothes that challenge perceptions. At his latest show, pairs of models walked onto a stage in nearly identical white jackets and robes made from materials like faux fur, jacquards and lace. The models stood there as an ultraviolet light descended and scanned their garments, which under the light transformed into vibrantly colored and patterned pieces. (Mr. Morinaga said that out in the wild, the clothes' transformations would depend on the weather and seasons.) Call it the magic of fashion week. -- E.P.
Armani Evokes Rihanna
If Rihanna can whip out some product and ostentatiously powder her nose during the Super Bowl, Giorgio Armani can have his last model do the same during his show. Out she came, wearing a fringed skull cap and a long black dress covered in sequins, the final look of a collection inspired by maquillage and the rituals of beauty. Brandished in the model's hands were a cosmetic puff and an open compact, which not only allowed her to admire her (admittedly fabulous) look all the way down the runway, but also reminded watchers where the real ka-ching of luxury brands is generated. -- V.F.
'Werk' Wear
A frequent reference for the designer Aaron Potts is the visionary American jazz musician Sun Ra and his extravagantly costumed Arkestra ensemble. Since Mr. Potts started his namesake independent label, Apotts, he has cultivated a similarly devoted group of followers, collaborators and friends. The designer's latest presentation featured members of that tribe in all their glorious dispersion, clothed in genderless garments including hooded dresses, knit yeti coats and drop-crotch "werksuits" like the one Queen Latifah wore soon afterward at the N.A.A.C.P. awards. -- G.T.
Jared Leto's Front-Row Tour
They sought him at Acne. They sought him at Off-White. They sought him at Chanel. Like the Scarlet Pimpernel, Jared Leto seemed to be everywhere during Paris Fashion Week. Maybe the actor was at show after show to shop for a new brand because his B.F.F. and former semi-personal couturier, Alessandro Michele, left Gucci last fall. Maybe Mr. Leto was researching his next big role as the designer Karl Lagerfeld in a biopic that the actor is also co-producing. Or maybe he was just figuring out what he wants to wear to the next Met Gala, which for Mr. Leto may be more like a meta gala: It is honoring Mr. Lagerfeld. -- V.F.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIA VALENTINO/MCV PHOTO; PETER WHITE/GETTY IMAGES; LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS; GASPARD LINBERG FOR JASON LLOYD-EVANS; UDO SALTERS/GETTY IMAGES; MOWALOLA FRANCOIS DURAND/GETTY IMAGES; ANREALAGE VITTORIO ZUNINO CELOTTO/GETTY IMAGES; PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES; JW ANDERSON; JOHN LAMPARSKI/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Robots; Clothing; Fashion models; Design; Denim; Audiences; Designers

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Leto, Jared

Company / organization: Name: JW Anderson; NAICS: 315250, 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/09/style/fashion-week-moments.html

Title: A Memorable Collection Of Looks and Visionaries:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847636

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/memorable-collection-looks-visionaries/docview/2785847636/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Panorama: [SpecialSections]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/panorama/docview/2785847623/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A look at design-world events, products and people.
This article is part of our Design special section on how the recent push for diversity in design is changing the way the world looks.
Creative Activism Gets a 20-by-45-Foot Canvas
In 2018, Malene Barnett -- an artist, textile designer and community builder -- attended a prominent event for the New York City design industry in which not one Black creative professional was represented in the many panels and presentations. That year, she founded Black Artists + Designers Guild.
What began as an online directory of architects, artists and furniture, interior and textile designers -- "so no one could make excuses that we're hard to find," Ms. Barnett said -- has flourished into a nonprofit centered on Black imagination and collective action with more than 100 global members.
To spread the organization's message of creative liberation and activism, a 20-by-45-foot mural called "Facing Futures" has been hand-painted on a building at the intersection of Berry and North 12th Streets in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. A collaboration with ￼￼Lamar Advertising and Colossal Media, it will remain on view through April.
The mural, with its six nonbinary portraits and six signature colors inspired by the vegetal dyes used in African textiles, also appeared last month on 375 digital billboards, from Buffalo, N.Y., to Los Angeles.
"It's for all Black creatives, regardless of gender identity, so they feel seen," said Ms. Barnett, speaking from Kingston, Jamaica, where she has a Fulbright grant to research the island's clay culture. "We must work together to face the future, to advocate for equity and inclusivity worldwide." badguild.info -- ANNIE BLOCK
Nepali Carpets That Are Retrofitting Iconography
The work of the artist Tsherin Sherpa, who divides his time between California and Nepal, explores the traditions of his culture through a contemporary lens.
Mr. Sherpa grew up in Kathmandu and was trained in thangka painting, which depicts Buddhist deities and mythological scenes. His latest work, a series of carpets, is in many ways a natural evolution.
"Carpets in the Himalayan community have inherently been mobile objects, used daily by nomadic people," he said. "Living between two places and traveling around the globe with my work, I find myself to be a bit nomadic as well." His work both playfully updates traditional iconography and introduces it to a new, young audience. "I think both these experiences help the sustainability of this art form and highlight its relevance," he said.
A collection of Mr. Sherpa's carpets, made in collaboration with the Nepali design studio Mt. Refuge, appeared last month as part of the NOMAD art fair in St. Moritz, Switzerland. Called "Artists in Flux," it was a collaboration with Gucci. The works -- with names like "The GIANT ego-lessness," "Three's Not Always a Crowd" and "This is not a Rorschach test" (shown) -- are produced with Tibetan highland wool, Chinese silk, and cotton in limited editions of 25 each. From 8 by 10 to 10 by 14 feet, they start at $ 13,350. mtrefuge.com -- STEPHEN TREFFINGER
The Hispanic Society Spaces Are Restored
The Hispanic Society Museum & Library, which focuses on Spanish and Portuguese arts and cultures, has undergone a major renovation by Selldorf Architects and Beyer Blinder Belle.
The changes will make the buildings fully wheelchair-accessible and restore Audubon Terrace, the landmarked complex occupying land that was once owned by John James Audubon, where the 119-year-old museum is located.
Phase one of the reopening, on April 6, will also include the Main Court and the Sorolla Gallery.
In the gallery, for the centennial of the Spanish artist Joaquín Sorolla's death, will be "Visions of Spain (1912-1919)," a group of 14 monumental paintings by the artist dedicated to the country's people, costumes and traditions. (Preparatory gouaches for the series are currently on view at the National Arts Club.)
The Hispanic Society's chief executive and director, Guillaume Kientz, hopes to share the museum's collection of 750,000 items in new ways in the updated spaces -- and with a broader audience. "I think museums should be less of a monologue and more of a conversation," he said. "The idea is to bring new ideas, new people, new voices." hispanicsociety.org -- STEPHEN TREFFINGER
A Tribute to a 19th-Century Ceramist and His Influence
Hardly any objects by the ceramist Thomas W. Commeraw have been gathered in one room since he shuttered his workshop in Lower Manhattan in 1819. The New-York Historical Society has reunited nearly two dozen of his thick-walled stoneware pots for "Crafting Freedom: The Life and Legacy of Free Black Potter Thomas W. Commeraw," on view through May 28.
Born about 1772, enslaved as a child and then set free by a family of German American potters, Mr. Commeraw began designing ceramics in the 1790s, including food storage vessels for oystermen and innkeepers. He stamped the gray clay surfaces with neo-Classical cobalt swags and tassels alongside his last name and his address, Corlears Hook. At the same time, he worked as a church leader and political activist, and in the 1820s, he briefly resettled with his family to Sierra Leone.
The historical society is also displaying ceramic works by the Queens-based artist Sana Musasama that are inspired by Mr. Commeraw's designs, with ovoid forms splashed in cobalt. The gift shop offers cobalt-and-cream pottery by Kyle Scott Lee, and a coming issue of the annual magazine Ceramics in America will be devoted to Mr. Commeraw. His legacy is further enriched by a monograph called "Commeraw's Stoneware: The Life and Work of the First African-American Pottery Owner" by A. Brandt Zipp, while efforts are underway to install a tribute plaque to him in the vicinity of Corlears Hook Park on the Lower East Side. -- EVE M. KAHN
Credit: By The New York Times
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SOPHIA CHAMBERS; HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES; NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY) This article appeared in print on page F2.

Subject: Design; Artists; Hispanic people; Collaboration; Iconography; Architects; Museums; Textiles; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Architects

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/09/arts/design/products-events-people.html

Title: Panorama:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847623

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/panorama/docview/2785847623/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Some Are Scanning for Hints of Trouble: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-are-scanning-hints-trouble/docview/2785847616/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Our reporter took a five-mile walk around Manhattan to find businesses that are using facial recognition technology.
In early February, I spent $ 171.59 to see the Rangers play the Canucks at Madison Square Garden. I had no plans to watch the hockey game. I just wanted to find out whether my guest, Tia Garcia, a personal injury lawyer, could get into the building.
We got in the security line and walked through the metal detector. Then, as Ms. Garcia turned to pick up her bag from the conveyor belt, a security guard asked her to step aside and show her driver's license. "Am I in trouble?" she asked.
The guard told her that she would need to wait for management to come speak to her.
He didn't explain why, but we already knew: Ms. Garcia is one of thousands of lawyers on a ban list because their firms are involved in litigation against the arena's parent company. While we were in line, facial recognition technology identified her.
"Have you been here before?" the guard asked. When Ms. Garcia told him that she had seen the Cavaliers play the Knicks a few weeks earlier, he expressed surprise. That time, Ms. Garcia had worn a medical mask, a hat and glasses. This time, her face was clearly visible.
Five minutes later, the security manager arrived to officially kick Ms. Garcia out. Even though she had expected it to happen, Ms. Garcia found the deployment of facial recognition technology to punish corporate enemies alarming. So did local lawmakers. The City Council convened a hearing last month to discuss how Madison Square Garden and other local businesses were using the technology.
There were lots of questions to be asked: Who is using it? Who are the people they're trying to keep out of their businesses? What do they do when the technology gets it wrong and flags a look-alike? Mayor Eric Adams had recently encouraged businesses to use facial recognition to fight shoplifting. Who answered his call? If you shoplift once, are you barred for life?
But the Council had a problem. Madison Square Garden hadn't sent a representative, as requested. (A spokeswoman for Madison Square Garden said the organization thought its view -- that the technology provides a safe and secure environment -- was represented by others there.)
And no one at the hearing knew which other businesses were using the technology.
So I decided to find out. New York City has a quirky new law that makes it the only municipality in the country where a business scanning faces has to post a sign telling customers that it is doing so. After I left the meeting, I set off on a miles-long walk in search of those signs. They weren't where I expected them to be.
A Privacy Walkabout
I left the hearing in Lower Manhattan and walked south, past the clothing retailer Zara and a CVS. Neither had a "biometric identifier information" disclosure, so presumably they weren't using facial recognition technology.
"Biometric identifiers? What's that?" an employee at the CVS door asked when I told him about the sign I was seeking. "Biometric identifier" is a fancy term for a unique physical trait, such as a fingerprint, a voiceprint or a scan of someone's face.
Facial recognition software is typically trained on photos of millions of people, until it learns what to look for in an image to match one face to another. It is not perfect, but has grown more accurate in recent years thanks to advances in artificial intelligence.
Typically, a store using facial recognition technology isn't trying to identify every customer who walks through the door but rather is looking for faces that have been put on a watch list, such as previous shoplifters. Madison Square Garden has said it created its lawyer watch list by collecting faces from the barred firms' websites.
I walked a few more blocks south to what I thought would be a sure bet for such a sign: Amazon Go, a convenience store where customers can pay with a palm print. The store was awash in cameras, sensors and palm scanners, allowing shoppers to pick up items and simply walk out without needing to stop at a register. There was a prominent display about the "power in your palm," with instructions on how to link one's handprint to an Amazon account.
But even this store did not have what I was looking for. Amazon said that facial recognition technology wasn't used and that it collected biometrics only from people who volunteered their palms. I bought some mediocre sushi and some water, but with a code from my Amazon app, as I wasn't quite ready to give Jeff Bezos my handprint.
Only the human kind used here
I made my way north toward the New York Times building in Midtown Manhattan, crossing Canal Street to walk along the distinctive cobblestone streets of SoHo. I popped into a Ralph Lauren where a blue cotton blazer was $ 790, a Sunglass Hut selling Gucci glasses for $ 550 and a Louis Vuitton with a $ 990 sleeveless crop top. None of them had a biometric sign, only many employees who watched me closely.
At Coach, a greeter standing next to high-end purses said that the store didn't use facial recognition technology, but that he and his fellow employees knew the regular shoplifters by face and would crowd the door when they tried to enter.
"Try Sephora," he suggested. I did, but there was no sign there. Nor at the Apple, Target or Adidas stores nearby.
The Pew Research Center recently surveyed Americans about their views on facial recognition technology, but only its use by the police, which slightly fewer than half called a good idea. The New York City Police Department has been using the technology since 2011. Less is known about its use by the private sector beyond Madison Square Garden, which started using its system in 2018 to identify security threats.
I walked up the Avenue of the Americas toward Chelsea, passing Old Navy, T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, Trader Joe's and Best Buy. None of them had a biometric disclosure sign.
The city law that requires the notice went into effect last year. The penalty for failure to post a sign is $ 500, but the law also prohibits businesses from selling or sharing the biometric information they collect, with damages of up to $ 5,000 per violation. Private individuals are responsible for enforcing the law; consumers would need to figure out that a business without a sign was secretly scanning their faces or sharing their faceprints with others, and then sue.
"We suspect many businesses are still unaware of the N.Y.C. biometrics law," said Mark Francis, a partner at the law firm Holland & Knight who focuses on data privacy.
'Stop grocery store violence and theft'
As I crossed 25th Street, and the pedometer on my iPhone hit nearly 14,000 steps, I finally spotted a sign at the gourmet grocer Fairway Market. A flimsy white piece of paper, titled "Biometric Identifier Information Disclosure," was taped to a sliding-glass door.
"They use it for security, if people steal," a Fairway employee told me. The store, he said, used a vendor called FaceFirst; its website promises to "stop grocery store violence and theft." The employee, who asked not to be identified by name because he wasn't authorized to speak to a reporter, said a man had been kicked out just that morning because he had previously stolen coffee.
Retail theft has been on the rise since the pandemic. Karen O'Shea, a spokeswoman for Wakefern, Fairway's parent company, said the facial recognition system was put in place about a year ago.
"Retail theft and shoplifting has a high rate of repeat offense and drives up grocery costs for all customers," she said. "Only trained asset protection associates use the system, which helps us focus attention on repeat shoplifters."
After leaving Fairway, I ran into more signs just eight blocks away. When I walked into Macy's on 34th Street, two fancy white signs were affixed to the gray marble wall, one in English and one in Spanish, informing customers that their "biometric identifier information" was collected for "asset protection purposes."
A security guard said he didn't know whether facial recognition was used there. "What signs? Where?" he said, looking around, seemingly confused.
Macy's did not respond to requests for comment about the signs, but a spokesperson previously told Insider that the company used facial recognition "in a small subset of stores with high incidences of organized retail theft and repeat offenders."
Help!
Macy's was just a block from Madison Square Garden, so I swung by to confirm its signs were still on display on poles near the metal detectors. The last six blocks of my trek, past restaurants and retailers on Eighth Avenue, had no obvious biometric signage.
The findings from my four-hour walkabout were confounding. I had checked dozens of stores. The high-end retailers of SoHo apparently weren't using the cutting-edge technology to protect their expensive apparel, but Fairway Market, with lemons on sale for 99 cents, was. Either we are in the early days of the technology's deployment or it is not proving as popular with retailers as expected.
My journey was a limited survey of a vast city of many blocks. Walking the whole of it would take something like six years. So, dear reader, I request help. If you are wandering the streets of New York City and spot a biometric identifier information disclosure sign, I invite you to take a photograph, record the location and send it to me at kashmir.hill@nytimes.com. My feet thank you.
Photograph Top, a checkpoint at Madison Square Garden highlights facial recognition enforcement. Above, Louis Vuitton in SoHo uses security personnel to identify shoplifters. Top right, an Amazon Go store uses biometric data for its payment system, but the company said it didn't use facial recognition technology. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILI BENITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KASHMIR HILL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU5.

Subject: Political conventions; Retail stores; Facial recognition technology; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Grocery stores

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Macys Inc; NAICS: 445110, 455110; Name: Madison Square Garden Co; NAICS: 711310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/technology/facial-recognition-stores.html

Title: Some Are Scanning for Hints of Trouble:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847616

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-are-scanning-hints-trouble/docview/2785847616/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hey, That Red Carpet Isn’t Red!

Author: Bahr, Sarah

Publication info: Bahr, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hey-that-red-carpet-isn-t/docview/2785568373/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
There are some fundamental truths in the world: The sky is blue. The grass is green. The Oscars red carpet is re —— champagne-colored.
Jimmy Kimmel, this year’s host, joked at the unveiling Thursday that the color change — the first time in more than six decades that the academy’s arrival rug will not be red — had been prompted by Will Smith slapping the comedian Chris Rock across the face onstage at last year’s ceremony.
“I think the decision to go with a champagne carpet rather than a red carpet shows just how confident we are that no blood will be shed,” he said.
Oscars organizers said they wanted the rug to be mellow, like a beach at sunset.
The 50,000-square-foot rug, which was created in a color chosen by the academy, is the latest in a trend of colorful carpets sweeping premieres, galas and award ceremonies across the country, from the Emmys (gold) to the Golden Globes (gray) to the purple-carpeted world premiere of “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” in Los Angeles in November.
“Every year, a new color will be a hot color,” said Steve Olive, president of Event Carpet Pros, the company that has manufactured the carpet for the Oscars for more than 20 years, as well as events on both coasts including the Golden Globes, the Emmy Awards, the Grammy Awards and thousands of movie premieres. “This year seems to be a lot of lavender,” he said. (Red, he notes, is still the most popular color, though black, white and gray are gaining on it.)
For the Oscars production team, which chose the champagne color, the priority was a light, “soothing” color that would not clash with the orange tent that will be erected over the carpet to shield attendees from the sun and potential rain. “The sienna-color tent and champagne-colored carpet was inspired by watching the sunset on a white-sand beach at the ‘golden hour’ with a glass of champagne in hand, evoking calm and peacefulness,” she said in an interview Thursday.
The red carpet traces its origins back to 458 B.C., when it appeared in the Aeschylus play “Agamemnon.” When the Greek king Agamemnon returns home victorious from the Trojan War, his vengeful wife, Clytemnestra, tries to trick him into arrogance by laying out a red carpet for him to walk on, an action that, undertaken by a mere mortal, would court the wrath of the gods. (He takes the bait and, shortly afterward, she murders him in a bathtub.)
Red carpets have been a staple at premieres and galas since 1922, when the showman Sid Grauman rolled one out for the 1922 premiere of “Robin Hood,” which starred Douglas Fairbanks, at the Egyptian Theater in Hollywood. The Oscars adopted it beginning with the 1961 ceremony, and, ever since, the special shade — known as Academy Red — has been instantly recognizable in photos.
But beginning about 15 years ago, at events across the country, producers began opting for more vibrant and varied fare, Olive said. There are the Met Gala’s pink and red, white and blue carpets, and Disney’s blue (“Moana” and “Avatar: The Way of Water”), white with black thorns (“Maleficent: Mistress of Evil”) and green (“Pete’s Dragon”) carpets for its premieres.
“It’s important for us as creatives and producers to create visuals that stand out from each other,” said Keith Baptista, a partner at the creative agency Prodject, which handles design and management for events such as the LACMA Art + Film Gala and the MoMA Film Benefit, and works with companies including Chanel, Gucci and Ralph Lauren. “You want to be able to look at something at a quick glance and go, ‘That was the Met Gala’ or ‘That was Vanity Fair.’”
Mindi Weiss, an event planner who has worked with the Kardashians, Justin Bieber and Ellen DeGeneres, pointed to another consideration: How the carpet will photograph. Red, she said, tradition aside, is simply not flattering.
“The color of red carpets has changed because of fashion,” she said. “It has to match the dresses, and the red clashed.”
In fact, event planners say trends in carpet colors now correlate with trends on the runways.
“It all goes back to fashion and style and trendsetting,” Weiss said. “The carpet should reflect the fashion that’s going to walk down it and not fight with it.”
But a striking color does not always complement what celebrities are wearing, Baptista said — or photograph well. The wrong tone of gold, for instance, can wash out a photo, said Stephanie Goodell, who has led what the Television Academy refers to as its “SWATCH” team for the Emmys for the past seven years. To head off any issues, production companies do extensive lighting, color and even footprint testing beforehand, and warn stylists.
“We’re in constant communication with publicists before the show,” Goodell said. “We always want to make sure they know exactly what we’re dealing with because they do select fashion based on the color of the carpet.”
Planning teams for big-ticket events generally begin considering the carpet — the color, material, length, width and pile type — six months to a year before the event. They also look for other ways to stand out, such as inscribing a logo or lettering on the carpet, Baptista said.
“Sometimes we’ll see people use grass, especially for summertime events,” he said. Then, for the background, “a lot of people use hedgerows, so it’s just greenery and it becomes neutral. Sometimes, there’s no logo,” he said.
For the Oscars, Olive got the call that carpet would be champagne about 45 days before the show. He rushed to get the three-week manufacturing process underway, which takes place at a mill in Dalton, Georgia, before the carpet is trucked across the country to Los Angeles, which takes about a week.
So what happens to the carpet after Cate Blanchett and Austin Butler have strolled it?
Its future, Olive said, does not lie in an industrial-size dumpster. The polyester-based, sisal-style rug is made from recycled materials and is recycled after the event, possibly beginning life anew as wall insulation or carpet padding, Olive said.
But first, it has to look sharp on the big night. So, was this year’s Oscars squad worried that the champagne carpet — the kind of flooring that screams “Shoes-off house!” — would get dirty?
“It will probably get dirty — maybe it wasn’t the best choice,” Love said. “We’ll see!” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Color; Golden Globe awards; Traditions; Academy awards; Theater; Trends; Motion picture directors & producers

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Blanchett, Cate; Degeneres, Ellen; Fairbanks, Douglas Jr; Bieber, Justin; Academy Of Television Arts And Sciences; Vanity Fair; Egyptian Theater; Egypt; Georgia; Dalton (Ga); Team (Theater Co); Chanel Sa; Gucci; Los Angeles (Calif); Butler, Austin (1991 ); Aeschylus; Smith, Will; Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Shed (Manhattan, Ny); Walt Disney Company; Rock, Chris; Kimmel, Jimmy; Arts And Antiquities Looting; Color; Photography; Protective Clothing And Gear; Recycling Of Waste Materials; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Factories And Manufacturing; Grammy Awards; Golden Globes (Awards); Movies; Emmy Awards; Met Gala; Parties (Social); Theater; Fashion And Apparel; Television; Academy Awards (Oscars)

Title: Hey, That Red Carpet Isn’t Red!

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-11 @ 01:33

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785568373

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hey-that-red-carpet-isn-t/docview/2785568373/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Michelle Obama's Secret Style Weapon: [Style Desk]

Author: Ruth La Ferla

Publication info: Ruth La Ferla. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/michelle-obamas-secret-style-weapon/docview/2784734132/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Known in some quarters as the first lady's tailor and dressmaker, Christy Rilling is starting her own line.
On a recent morning, Irene Neuwirth, who had trekked from Los Angeles to Christy Rilling's studio on West 38th Street in Manhattan, chattered brightly as Ms. Rilling fitted her for the gown she planned to wear on Oscars night. Ms. Neuwirth, a jewelry designer with an enthusiastic Hollywood following, emerged in her street clothes from behind a screen, exhilarated to have had a voice in the gown's creation.
"I love this feeling of couture, it's so personal," she said. "You want to be in control of the way you look."
She had settled on a pink velvet evening column, a synthesis of her own aesthetic and the resolutely low-key style Ms. Rilling cultivated years ago.
In 2008, when Ms. Rilling opened her studio, the country was in a recession. "People weren't really prepared for that," she said. "I had to find ways to make things that were elegant, not flashy. Nobody wanted to peacock around."
She was prompted to move in the direction of minimalism, her creations "pulled back, not loud, not in your face," she said.
She has applied a similar standard to her latest move, the introduction of a ready-to-wear line, Guild of Hands, cut and stitched in her studio and available online. She and Andrew Walker, her husband and business partner, are courting a wider clientele with pieces that include an hourglass-curved silk and wool blazer, a waterproof silk moiré trench coat and a silk velvet evening dress shimmering with tiny glass beads.
Most are variations on the custom designs Ms. Rilling, 43, creates for marquee personalities -- Jennifer Lawrence, Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen, the fashion entrepreneur Lauren Santo Domingo and the artists Marilyn Minter and Laurie Simmons among them -- who value her subdued style and place a premium on privacy.
Few count more on her discretion than Michelle Obama. Ms. Rilling, who was introduced to the first lady by the editors at Vogue, went on to become her personal tailor, working without fanfare to alter, and often whip up from scratch, styles that don't shout "look at me."
"Not many people knew that I worked for her," Ms. Rilling said. Relatively few know even now that she confected the delicately pleated gown, its colors intensifying from dusty pink to flame, that Mrs. Obama wore for the unveiling of her White House portrait.
Joining forces with Meredith Koop, Mrs. Obama's longtime stylist, Ms. Rilling later fashioned portions of the wardrobe for the former first lady's "Becoming" book tour. Late last year, as she promoted her book "The Light We Carry," Mrs. Obama underwent something of a metamorphosis, switching out her corporate sheaths, tailored coats and high-heeled pumps for the relative ease of a denim pantsuit, a zebra print shirtdress and an array of Ms. Rilling's subtly racy, one-shoulder bodysuits.
"She has become more casual, more adventurous, more approachable," Ms. Rilling said. And perhaps more at home with the personal and collaborative nature of the fitting process. Ms. Rilling is, after all, taking the measure not just of a client's waistline but of her needs and mood.
Mrs. Obama is appreciative. "It's been a joy to work with Christy over the years," she said in a statement. "She has a remarkable intuition for making me feel my best."
Initially known as a tailor, Ms. Rilling traveled extensively with Vogue's fashion team in the mid-aughts, shears and dressmaker pins at the ready, to help prep the magazine's cover shoots. She soon expanded her skill set, tailoring pajamas, fashioning elaborately sculptured hats and stitching up red carpet gowns.
In 2019, she formally introduced her first custom collection, an 11-piece line of day and evening looks matched to bustiers, slips and other fragile underpinnings. Having been "in everyone's closet since I started this business, I feel like I have an idea of what women want," she told Vogue at the time. "People love sleeves, people love pockets, people love length."
Her collection, now as it often was then, is engineered from luxury fabrics -- waterproof silk moiré, dip-dyed chiffon, macramé -- sourced from European and American mills, some tweaked, redyed or embellished by Ms. Rilling for a fragile, not-easy-to-replicate look.
There are discreetly placed details: antique glass beading, flat braiding and, on the practical side, a generous seam allowance, a touch rarely offered off the rack.
The line, opulent but muted, arrives at an opportune time, chiming with a conservative fashion moment as such influential labels as Gucci, Jil Sander and Proenza Schouler retreat in their fall 2023 collections to the relative safety of a camel coat, a well-cut blazer or a mid-calf leather skirt.
In many ways, Ms. Rilling's custom designs serve as the template for her new ready-to-wear, which will range in price from $ 1,200 for a silk blouse to $ 12,000 for an embroidered silk faille gown. "Nothing will be rushed," Mr. Walker said. "There is no production line. There is one set of hands on each garment from beginning to completion."
The clothes are intended as keepers, Ms. Rilling said: "The ideas is that you can wear them time after time and not look back on your photo 10 years down the line, moaning, 'Ugh, I looked so trendy."
Photograph Left, Christy Rilling in her New York studio. Below, three looks from the Guild of Hands ready-to-wear line. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA GUILD OF HANDS) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Design; First ladies; Fashion designers

People: Obama, Michelle (1964- )

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/09/style/new-fashion-line-michelle-obamas-secret-style-weapon.html

Title: Michelle Obama's Secret Style Weapon:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 9, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2784734132

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/michelle-obamas-secret-style-weapon/docview/2784734132/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Michelle Obama’s Secret Style Weapon

Author: Ruth La Ferla

Publication info: Ruth La Ferla. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/michelle-obama-s-secret-style-weapon/docview/2784707879/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
On a recent morning, Irene Neuwirth, who had trekked from Los Angeles to Christy Rilling’s studio on West 38th Street in New York City, chattered brightly as Rilling fitted her for the gown she planned to wear on Oscars night. Neuwirth, a jewelry designer with an enthusiastic Hollywood following, emerged in her street clothes from behind a screen, exhilarated to have had a voice in the gown’s creation.
“I love this feeling of couture; it’s so personal,” she said. “You want to be in control of the way you look.”
She had settled on a pink velvet evening column, a synthesis of her own aesthetic and the resolutely low-key style Rilling cultivated years ago.
In 2008, when Rilling opened her studio, the country was in a recession. “People weren’t really prepared for that,” she said. “I had to find ways to make things that were elegant, not flashy. Nobody wanted to peacock around.”
She was prompted to move in the direction of minimalism, her creations “pulled back, not loud, not in your face,” she said.
She has applied a similar standard to her latest move, the introduction of a ready-to-wear line, Guild of Hands, cut and stitched in her studio and available online. She and Andrew Walker, her husband and business partner, are courting a wider clientele with pieces that include an hourglass-curved silk and wool blazer, a waterproof silk moiré trench coat and a silk velvet evening dress shimmering with tiny glass beads.
Most are variations on the custom designs Rilling, 43, creates for marquee personalities — Jennifer Lawrence, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, fashion entrepreneur Lauren Santo Domingo, and artists Marilyn Minter and Laurie Simmons among them — who value her subdued style and place a premium on privacy.
Few count more on her discretion than Michelle Obama. Rilling, who was introduced to the first lady by the editors at Vogue, went on to become her personal tailor, working without fanfare to alter, and often whip up from scratch, styles that don’t shout “look at me.”
“Not many people knew that I worked for her,” Rilling said. Relatively few know even now that she confected the delicately pleated gown, its colors intensifying from dusty pink to flame, that Obama wore for the unveiling of her White House portrait.
Joining forces with Meredith Koop, Obama’s longtime stylist, Rilling later fashioned portions of the wardrobe for the former first lady’s “Becoming” book tour. Late last year, as she promoted her book “The Light We Carry,” Obama underwent something of a metamorphosis, switching out her corporate sheaths, tailored coats and high-heeled pumps for the relative ease of a denim pantsuit, a zebra print shirtdress and an array of Rilling’s subtly racy, one-shoulder bodysuits.
“She has become more casual, more adventurous, more approachable,” Rilling said. And perhaps more at home with the personal and collaborative nature of the fitting process. Rilling is, after all, taking the measure not just of a client’s waistline but of her needs and mood.
Obama is appreciative. “It’s been a joy to work with Christy over the years,” she said in a statement. “She has a remarkable intuition for making me feel my best.”
Initially known as a tailor, Rilling traveled extensively with Vogue’s fashion team in the mid-2000s, shears and dressmaker pins at the ready, to help prep the magazine’s cover shoots. She soon applied her skills more widely, tailoring pajamas, fashioning elaborately sculptured hats and stitching up red carpet gowns.
In 2019, she formally introduced her first custom collection, an 11-piece line of day and evening looks matched to bustiers, slips and other fragile underpinnings. Having been “in everyone’s closet since I started this business, I feel like I have an idea of what women want,” she told Vogue at the time. “People love sleeves, people love pockets, people love length.”
Her collection, now as it often was then, is engineered from luxury fabrics — waterproof silk moiré, dip-dyed chiffon, macramé — sourced from European and American mills, some tweaked, redyed or embellished by Rilling for a fragile, not-easy-to-replicate look.
There are discreetly placed details: antique glass beading, flat braiding and, on the practical side, a generous seam allowance, a touch rarely offered off the rack.
The line, opulent but muted, arrives at an opportune time, chiming with a conservative fashion moment as such influential labels as Gucci, Jil Sander and Proenza Schouler retreat in their fall 2023 collections to the relative safety of a camel coat, a well-cut blazer or a midcalf leather skirt.
In many ways, Rilling’s custom designs serve as the template for her new ready-to-wear, which will range in price from $1,200 for a silk blouse to $12,000 for an embroidered silk faille gown. “Nothing will be rushed,” Walker said. “There is no production line. There is one set of hands on each garment from beginning to completion.”
The clothes are intended as keepers, Rilling said: “The idea is that you can wear them time after time and not look back on your photo 10 years down the line, moaning, ‘Ugh, I looked so trendy.’” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Design; First ladies; Fashion designers

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Obama, Michelle (1964- )

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Carolina Herrera Ltd; Ferla, Ruth La; Proenza Schouler; Europe; Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic); Santo Domingo, Lauren (1976 ); Olsen, Ashley; Olsen, Mary Kate; Obama, Michelle; Hollywood (Calif); Los Angeles (Calif); Minter, Marilyn; Jil Sander Ag; New York City; Simmons, Laurie; Lawrence, Jennifer; Neuwirth, Irene; Vogue; Gucci; Obama, Barack; Becoming (Book); Becoming (Movie); Koop, Meredith; Joining Forces; Academy Awards (Oscars); Silk And Silk Goods; Bars And Nightclubs; Luxury Goods And Services; First Ladies (Us); Art; Two Thousands (Decade); Seamstresses And Tailors; Textiles; Books And Literature; Magazines

Title: Michelle Obama’s Secret Style Weapon

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-08 @ 18:12

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2784707879

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/michelle-obama-s-secret-style-weapon/docview/2784707879/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Disney Hero Tries To Go the Distance: [Review]

Author: Ramírez, Juan A

Publication info: Ramírez, Juan A. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disney-hero-tries-go-distance/docview/2784156936/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A new production of the Disney musical at the Paper Mill Playhouse falls short of inspiring awe.
It always puzzled me why it's taken so long for "Hercules," arguably Disney's most Broadway-ready animated film musical, to get a proper staging. Sure, it's got lightning-hurling gods and thunderous titans running amok, but if the omnipotent entertainment company can make nannies and carpets fly onstage, it can certainly find a way to bring to life the myth of Zeus' mortal son, whose daring deeds, its song "Zero to Hero" goes, make great the-a-ter.
The Public Theater figured out a scrappy, low-budget way through its Public Works program in 2019: Alan Menken's hit-after-hit score, with lyrics by David Zippel, handled the razzle-dazzle and Kristoffer Diaz's book retooled the 1997 film's story to focus on the importance of community.
Now comes a sloppily revised iteration written by Kwame Kwei-Armah, the artistic director of the Young Vic theater in London, and Robert Horn at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J. The story still follows the attempts by the earthbound Herc (Bradley Gibson) to achieve hero status in order to regain access to Mount Olympus after his spiteful uncle Hades (Shuler Hensley) strips him of his immortality shortly after birth. He still falls for the not-quite damsel-in-distress Megara (Isabelle McCalla), despite his trainer Phil's (James Monroe Iglehart) advice, and to the accompanying tune of a quintet of soulful Muses.
But while the Public's version took its cues from a post-2016 society and earnestly questioned what it meant to be a hero -- its Grecians hungry for affordable housing and stable social programs rather than a strongman to save the day -- Lear deBessonet returns to direct a production that is surprisingly drab and lifeless.
DeBessonet's transitions are clunky and ineffective. Emilio Sosa's costumes look borrowed, lacking godly luster above (Zeus and Hera are out of a Nativity scene) and classical taste below (mostly leggings and tunics, and an unconvincing toga for Hercules). Chase Brock and Tanisha Scott's choreography can be bested by most cheer squads. With its towering Doric columns, Dane Laffrey's set actually inspires some awe, but only when Jeff Croiter's uneven lighting design makes it visible.
Menken and Zippel's original songs ("I Won't Say (I'm in Love)," "The Gospel Truth," among others) remain undeniable treasures, taking divine cues from gospel, but are blandly arranged by the five people credited with the score's presentation, which has a blurry sound that may as well come from a backing track. The new material is less exciting, but at least orchestrated with a bit more ingenuity.
The Muses (Tiffany Mann, Anastacia McCleskey, Destinee Rea, Rashidra Scott and the luminous Charity Angél Dawson) mine much-needed melismatic oomph from the material, but, aside from McCalla's magnetic performance, they stand alone in that regard. The production's biggest names, Hensley and Iglehart, passively traipse on and offstage.
And as the near-superhuman wonder boy, Gibson's uneasy stage presence results in stilted line readings and an unconvincing performance. Granted, his role -- the title one, mind you -- is barely a character here; a written characterization that's hyper-infantilized even by Disney standards.
The show is also rife with uncaring gaffes -- an obviously Gucci-inspired tracksuit Phil wears is as incorrectly Italian as a joke about a local Times New Roman newspaper. Are the Muses, as they insipidly joke, our "literal Greek chorus" and thus the only ones able to break a fourth wall, or are those townspeople and, at one point Meg, also sometimes involving the audience?
Everything from plot points to character beats unfold with little significance or cohesion, and the whole production feels under-rehearsed, underwhelming, and unimportant. How far we've fallen from Olympus.
Hercules
Through March 19 at the Paper Mill Playhouse, Millburn, N.J.; papermill.org. Running time: 2 hours and 30 minutes.
Photograph Bradley Gibson, center, in "Hercules," a stage adaptation of Disney's animated film musical, at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN ZIMMERMAN) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Musical theater; Theater

People: DeBessonet, Lear

Company / organization: Name: Paper Mill Playhouse; NAICS: 711110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/03/theater/hercules-review-paper-mill-playhouse.html

Title: A Disney Hero Tries To Go the Distance:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 8, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Theater Review

ProQuest document ID: 2784156936

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disney-hero-tries-go-distance/docview/2784156936/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hot Snowsuits, Straight Out of the '80s: [Style Desk]

Author: Krueger, Alyson

Publication info: Krueger, Alyson. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-snowsuits-straight-out-80s/docview/2782596618/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Neon and metallic designs have become so popular among skiers and nonskiers seeking "the vibe" that they've become hard to find.
Once a month during the winter season, Laura McDonald, owner of Rad Max Vintage, hosts a pop-up shop at a bar named Le Chamois, at the base of Palisades Tahoe, a ski resort in Olympic Valley, Calif. The crowd there -- a mix of skiers and nonskiers -- comes to party, dancing to classic tunes and taking "shotskis."
Some revelers are harder to miss than others, wearing neon or metallic one-piece snowsuits straight out of, or inspired by, the '80s. "If I see four people in a friend group, usually three are in regular ski clothes and one is in a onesie," Ms. McDonald said. (Regular ski clothes, for those who don't partake, tend to be pants and jackets in neutral colors.)
But after a few drinks, those wearing traditional ski attire opt to swap their neutral clothes for the bright onesies Ms. McDonald sells. "People are like, 'Should we try them on because they are so fun?"' Ms. McDonald said. "And then they always buy them." In one day, she can sell as many as 40 vintage snowsuits, most of which costs between $ 100 to $ 300 apiece. They always sell out, she said.
"It used to be that people would wear them on the last day of the season" -- which tends to be April or May at many resorts -- or "at a frat party or bachelorette party," she said. "Now people wear them all the time."
This ski season, vintage and vintage-inspired snowsuits have been all the rage both on the mountain and off. Skiers and nonskiers alike are donning them to attract attention, to stay warm -- and to find one another more easily. A number of Instagram accounts like @microwavesofaspen now track their popularity, and TikTok users rack up millions of views for videos showing off their goods (the louder and more colorful the better).
High fashion brands are getting on board. HEAD, the Olympic skier Lindsey Vonn's brand, for example, released neon ski clothes with Gucci this season.
So are start-ups. OOSC, a British brand, now specializes in making retro-looking snowsuits out of plastic bottles.
Websites that sell or rent vintage-style snowsuits have also been doing brisk business. Rent the Runway, a secondhand fashion site, confirmed it rented more snowsuits this year than any before. Revolve Clothing said its snowsuit sales jumped 35 percent this year from last.
With rentals booked up, Tita Loyek, an avid skier and full-time content creator who lives in the East Village, finally found one at the Farm Rio store in Soho. "I got one that was so loud and vibrant," Ms. Loyek, 26, said. On New Year's Day, she wore it around Vail, Colo., where she said she "got compliments from everybody."
"There are so many people who spend so much money on a cool ski outfit, and they don't even ski," she said. "They stay on the bunny slope and really just want to get a cool photo for Instagram."
"I have friends who are guilty of this," she said. "They just want the vibe." Indeed, some ski suits don't appear designed for actual skiing -- maybe they're too tight for long underwear or aren't fully waterproof. Some have shorts.
But there is a practical side to wearing bright-colored onesies; it's easier to find each other. Mackenzie Curran, 24, a content creator who lives in Des Moines, wore her bright purple snowsuit with bright pink goggles and a pink hat around Breckenridge, Colo., in January.
"I stuck out like a sore thumb," she said. "My family always knew where I was."
Ms. McDonald also believes this is a reason people want to buy fun-colored snowsuits. "When you're on a mountain, it's really hard to find your friends," she said. "If you're wearing something unique, you don't have that problem."
Some people love their snowsuits so much they are wearing them off the mountain.
"I am the proud owner of four vintage snowsuits," said Amy Abrams, 49, an owner of Artists and Fleas and the Manhattan Vintage Show.
She wore her blue and turquoise one a couple of weeks ago to walk to a Pilates class in Brooklyn, where she lives. "This woman stopped me and was like, 'I drove my car around the block because I had to tell you I loved it,"' she said. "I like to make people smile, but I also like to stay warm. You're freezing if you just wear your dumb yoga pants."
Her husband and business partner, Ronen Glimer, 48, wears one of his three vintage snowsuits to a New York City dog park when it's cold. "They are very warm and very well made," he said. "They've been around for a long time."
Photograph From near right: Laura McDonald, upper right, with friends; Ms. McDonald with her wares; and Amy Abrams, who owns four vintage snowsuits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAD MAX VINTAGE; MANHATTAN VINTAGE SHOW) (ST8-ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Skiing

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/24/style/ski-suits-vintage-80s-fashion.html

Title: Hot Snowsuits, Straight Out of the '80s:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 5, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2782596618

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-snowsuits-straight-out-80s/docview/2782596618/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Drug-Fueled Bear Steals the Movie: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Shattuck, Kathryn

Publication info: Shattuck, Kathryn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drug-fueled-bear-steals-movie/docview/2782596545/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The horror-comedy is based on a real story from 1985, but the director Elizabeth Banks and writer Jimmy Warden gave their furry lead a different ending.
Jimmy Warden wanted his bear to have its full 15 minutes of fame -- while it was still alive.
A few years back, Warden, a screenwriter, stumbled upon the tale of a 175-pound black bear that had dropped dead in a Georgia forest after ingesting cocaine that the drug smuggler Andrew Thornton had thrown from a plane. Thornton had parachuted out, weighed down with $ 14 million worth of the drug along with firearms and survivalist equipment. He was found dead on Sept. 11, 1985, wearing a bulletproof vest and Gucci loafers, on a driveway in Knoxville, Tenn.
The bear's corpse, stuffed and christened Pablo Escobear, supposedly ended up at the Kentucky for Kentucky Fun Mall in Lexington, Ky.
Some believe that's how it happened; others think it's an urban legend.
But Warden was more intrigued by the bear than the smuggling, and he let his imagination run wild. The result is the new comedy "Cocaine Bear."
"I took the story and was like, 'What if it didn't die?"' he said in a video call from his home in Los Angeles.
Besides, he felt bad for the bear and thought, "Let's give this bear a win by way of mauling a couple of people in the woods."
The way Warden saw things, the bear wasn't the villain -- it was the victim.
Warden invented a 500-pound version of the black bear that, high on cocaine, goes on a blood-and-guts rampage terrorizing campers, a ranger, children and other sundry visitors to the woods.
He sent the script to a friend, who gave it to a producer at the production company Lord Miller, who handed it off to Universal executives, who bought it. And in about a week, Warden's professional life became a very different creature.
The script landed with Elizabeth Banks, and she immediately recognized an antidote to the world's pandemic and climate-change woes: a funny, crazy tale that reminded her of "Pulp Fiction," with its edgy blend of intricately woven story lines, drug dealers and gore, sprinkled with some "Stand by Me" moments.
"I just thought, 'Wow, there is no greater metaphor for the chaos going on in nature,"' she said on a video call. "And not only that, it was the humans that did it. They're the real bad guys."
Banks started contacting friends and acquaintances, while others made their way to her.
She asked Keri Russell to read the script. "It just felt like a complete, ridiculous, stupid, amazingly funny departure and relief from life," said Russell, who plays Sari, the divorced mother of a 12-year-old girl missing in the woods with a friend.
And when Russell learned that Banks wanted to cast Margo Martindale, her former co-star on "The Americans," as the ranger, she said, "Oh, I'm in," because she could see Banks's desire to keep the story real.
"You don't cast Margo Martindale if it's going to be a flat-out silly comedy the whole way," Russell said.
Just silly enough.
"It would be a severe close-up on me screaming about the bear attack," Russell recalled, "with Banks screaming in the background, 'OK, now the bear is ripping his leg off and blood is squirting everywhere and he's screaming and now his torso falls out of the tree!"'
"That's the thing with these movies -- you can't just half-ass it," she added. "You've got to go for it, and the bigger you go, the better it is."
Russell was packing for Ireland, where the film was shot in 2021, when her husband, Matthew Rhys, decided he wanted in on the action too -- specifically the role of the smuggler.
"Text her right now, tell her I want to do that part," Rhys urged Russell. She did, and he was hired (making for a mini-reunion of stars of "The Americans.")
When O'Shea Jackson Jr. read on Twitter that Banks had secured the rights to "Cocaine Bear," his first thought was, "There's no way they're going to get a movie like this made."
But he retweeted the announcement, his excitement obvious. Banks got wind and signed him up as Daveed, the trusted fixer for the drug kingpin Syd (Ray Liotta) and former best friend of Syd's son, Eddie (Alden Ehrenreich). Jackson and Ehrenreich developed such camaraderie off the set that their story was rewritten to give it a more heartwarming arc.
And working with Liotta, in one of that actor's last roles before his death in May, "was an unexpected blessing in my career," Jackson said.
The shoot was not without its drawbacks: bees and mosquitoes attracted to fake blood; remembering lines in an ice-cold river.
But it was also the first movie in which Jackson's character underwent a mutilation that required prosthetics. "I really dug that part of it," he said.
Warden was pretty much in heaven with Banks's approach.
"It was just like, 'Hell yeah, we're going to rip off this guy's hand now and then we're going to have this severed leg fall to the ground and the bear is going to do a line of coke off of it!"' he said. "To collaborate with somebody who was down to do all that stuff was a dream come true."
Even Liotta, Banks recalled, was game. "This movie is crazy, so the idea that I was like, 'Can you get on these wires and fight a bear performer?' -- I don't think Martin Scorsese ever said that to him. But I got to, and he delightedly did it."
Which brings us to the beast that Banks and her crew lovingly called Cokey.
"Cocaine Bear" was going to require a computer-generated apex predator as formidable as its name. And Weta FX, the New Zealand special effects company that had worked on "The Lord of the Rings" and the "Planet of the Apes" films, understood the need for a photorealistic, documentary-credible bear. But because it was high on cocaine, there were opportunities to stretch in little ways to create a superpowered character.
That's when Allan Henry, a motion-capture and stunt performer, arrived on set to help bring Cokey to life.
Suited up in black spandex and gloves with bits of fur, Henry wore arm extenders and stilts, depending on whether Cokey was on four legs or two, that enabled him to move like a quadruped. He also wore a helmet with a silicone bear snout attached to two telescoping rods and Ping-Pong balls for the eyeline.
That soft snout allowed him to nuzzle or sniff actors without injuring them, and gave them a sense of weight and scale to play opposite, whether he was crashing into an ambulance or dancing.
But what is a bear without its voice?
"Oh, I made so many noises," Henry said. "I tend to vocalize anyway, no matter what performance I'm doing, because the breath and the vocalization energizes your body. I can't roar like a bear, but I can definitely be loud and I can kind of snuffle and grunt and sneeze and make weird noises in the bush."
He could even play a coked-up Cokey.
"E.B. has great ideas," Henry said of Banks. "She was like, 'Maybe you jump a little bit higher, or maybe you crash this way, or maybe you don't notice this thing because you're so focused on the bag."'
"The idea was to have a heightened performance that didn't go over the line," he said.
About two months before she learned of "Cocaine Bear," Natalia Martinez, an investigative reporter for WAVE News, the NBC affiliate in Louisville, had begun working on a documentary about Andrew Thornton and the cultlike following of Pablo Escobear.
Martinez drove to the store that claimed to have the real bear. Then she spoke with the medical examiner who had performed the necropsy in 1985 and learned two things: The bear had consumed about six grams of coke, according to tests. And its carcass was a heap of bones, hide and fur. No stomach left to back up claims that it had eaten millions of dollars' worth of cocaine. No head to attach to another bear's body.
"There's no absolute way that this bear could have been taxidermied," the medical examiner told her. Agents with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Natural Resources agreed.
"Blow: The True Story of Cocaine, a Bear and a Crooked Kentucky Cop," which begins streaming March 10 on YouTube and other platforms, also delves into the missing 200 kilos of cocaine and a plane that the F.B.I. thought had been sabotaged by Colombian smugglers.
Whatever the true story, Martinez, the executive producer of the documentary, sees only good in the two films' serendipity.
"I think I owe them a kidney," she said, laughing.
"Cocaine Bear" had its Kentucky premiere in Lexington on Thursday. Pablo Escobear was in attendance.
Photograph Top, the true star of "Cocaine Bear" was computer generated. Above, from left, Keri Russell, Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Margo Martindale in a scene from the movie. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES; PAT REDMOND/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page AR9.

Subject: Cocaine; Scripts; Bears; Video teleconferencing; Documentary films

Location: United States--US; Kentucky; Georgia

People: Martindale, Margo

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/24/movies/cocaine-bear-making-of.html

Title: Drug-Fueled Bear Steals the Movie:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 5, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2782596545

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drug-fueled-bear-steals-movie/docview/2782596545/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Our Brands Say About Us: [Style Desk]

Author: Cha, Simbarashe

Publication info: Cha, Simbarashe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-our-brands-say-about-us/docview/2782596538/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The style at fashion week in Milan, perhaps more than in any other city, is defined by logos and labels.
Wearing pieces from a brand to its runway show has long been a custom of fashion week. But in Milan, perhaps more than in any other city, this trend is more noticeable -- and when you go inside shows, you can better observe the trickle-down (and trickle-up) relationship between clothes worn on the street and what's presented on a runway.
At Max Mara, all the elegant overcoats and tonal separates in the crowd suggested a seemingly endless appetite for refined basics, two words that characterize both the brand and its latest collection. Shiny suits on some guests at Gucci reflected the whimsy that Alessandro Michele, its former creative director, had brought to the label. (Mr. Michele didn't design the latest Gucci collection, but his influence could still be detected in certain pieces, like a shimmering silver coat.)
The most exciting show to compare looks from the crowds to those on the runway, though, might have been Diesel, which has found new relevance under the designer Glenn Martens and, as a result, has attracted a whole new generation of fans.
Photograph Top, doubled-up waistbands outside the Diesel show. Above from left: an ornate collar; Sabrina Dhowre Elba and the rapper ASAP Rocky at the Gucci show; the formality of a floor-length skirt tempered. Right: Florence Welch in a gauzy gown at Gucci; the Amiaya twins in Max Mara. Below: leg and lace; the stylist Shiona Turini, left, and Nicole Chapoteau, fashion director of Vanity Fair.; From top: the actress Maya Hawke in gingham at Prada; and details in sheer. At Gucci, above from left: a fun hat to watch in the crowd; provocatively dressed guests; the actor Xiao Zhan in loose layers. Left, a figure-eight runway at the Ferragamo show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMBARASHE CHA) This article appeared in print on page ST15.

Company / organization: Name: Max Mara; NAICS: 315250, 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/28/style/milan-fashion-week-streetwear.html

Title: What Our Brands Say About Us:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 5, 2023

column: Fashion Week Diary

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2782596538

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-our-brands-say-about-us/docview/2782596538/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Enter the New Era of Stealth Wealth: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/enter-new-era-stealth-wealth/docview/2781062442/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A season-defining Bottega Veneta leads the way, while Gucci remains in limbo.
MILAN -- Not long after the last guest had trooped off the avocado-color carpet lining the Gucci show space and out of the brand's headquarters in the far reaches of the city on Friday, #Gucci began trending on Twitter. Was it because of the fabulous clothes just shown on the runway? Was it because, once again, what we wore had been upended for a new era?
Nah. It was because of the front row.
ASAP Rocky! Maneskin! Dakota Johnson! And especially Xiao Zhan, the Chinese actor and singer, who practically caused a riot on his way in and out of the show.
Indeed, the frenzy attached to such celebrities is, presumably, why Gucci even had a show, since the brand is in between designers and in between ideas, judging by what appeared on the runway.
Alessandro Michele, the most recent creative director and the guy who transformed Gucci from gilded jet set avatar to big tent eccentric, left in November and Sabato De Sarno, who was hired to effect something of a reset, won't arrive until this spring (his first show is scheduled in September).
The current offering was designed by the studio team, and it was a tide-'em-over time-lapse, like a bridge boyfriend between the Michele and De Sarno eras: a little of this, a little of that, some GGs on top.
You could spot the early '90s Tom Ford in the logo belts and velvet jeans, and some late Ford in the visible G-strings under hipster sheer pencil skirts. See the legacy Michele kookiness in the towering majorette feather hats and a silver Harry Styles-esque tinsel coat.
It was all so glancingly familiar that when a simple tailored gray overcoat appeared on '90s model Liisa Winkler, it struck a palate-cleansing chord. There's been a lot of talk about how Gucci wants to move away from the in-and-out of fashion, and become more timeless. Ironically, if that is true and the coat was a harbinger of things to come, Gucci will be, once again, on trend.
Presenting the Camelocracy
Aside from the ever-present K-pop stars and other Asian influencers (every brand has at least one: DK from Seventeen at Bally, to see Rhuigi Villaseñor's new version of Ford's Gucci luxe; Joy from Red Velvet at Tod's), the biggest shift in Milan is toward what was once dubbed stealth wealth. Or "the classics." Or, as MaxMara said in its show notes, "the Camelocracy." That wins the award for neologism of the week.
Its definition: the kind of clothes that don't advertise their value in obvious ways (decoration, logos, jangling paillettes, bright colors) but instead rely on plushness of fabric and rigor of line -- on insider information rather than influencer information -- to suggest value. That don't shout, but whisper.
Italy has always had a way with such sotto voce style, thanks to its history with fabric mills and leather goods. For anyone harboring a Katharine Hepburn fantasy, this is the time to shop. Brands like Loro Piana and Brunello Cucinelli built their names on the deep-pile luxury of their materials, and they are leaning into their expertise.
At Jil Sander, the brand that once defined the internal possibilities of power dressing, Luke and Lucie Meier dropped hemlines, upsized jackets and overcoats, and added an hourglass structure to tunics. At Ferragamo (K-pop star: Jeno of NCT), Maximilian Davis added little slices to the sleeves and jackets of slick black suiting to reveal a flash of white or red underneath: a reminder there was more going on under all that tailoring than you might immediately assume.
It makes sense: In an inflationary fog, when the economy is unpredictable, wearing your disposable income on your back can be an uncomfortable thing. There is a reason that the last time stealth wealth was in fashion was 2008, which itself recalled the 1990s -- again (as with Ms. Winkler at Gucci, as well as her peer Amy Wesson) the decade of reference.
Bottega Veneta's Secret Superpower
No one has raised the bar on the whole idea like Matthieu Blazy at Bottega Veneta. This season he sent a leather watch strap with no watch on it as an invitation -- get it? timelessness -- and finagled the loan of three equally timeless bronzes for his show: "Unique Forms of Continuity in Space" by the Italian futurist Umberto Boccioni, usually displayed at the National Gallery of Cosenza, and "The Runners," two first-century B.C. sculptures from the National Archaeological Museum of Naples.
The sculptures stood on a rug woven to mimic stracciatella, Mr. Blazy's favorite ice cream flavor (or so he said before the show), which like the art (his favorite pieces), was there to reflect the point of the clothes he makes; it's not the obvious price of something that matters, or the hierarchy of aesthetics. It's personal taste.
Hence his signature fashion party trick: leather made to mimic other fabrics, so what looks like jeans, say, or a white striped Oxford shirt and boxer shorts, or gray flannel, or even, this time around, knitted red sock slippers, turns out to be, in fact, the supplest skins. Curling-up-in-the-couch-with-gelato leather! It's an insanely decadent proposal. Fabulousness can be its own fabulous secret.
The effect is mind-boggling but the bigger impulse has to do with an individualized, generous approach to dressing where the details matter: the trapeze-shape sunshine yellow tunic and skirt woven with hundreds of tiny leather petals so it sways and jounces around with every step; the black wool cocktail dress twisted around the body and caught up on one hip by a crafty ceramic loop; the squiggles, like lace, on airy tiers that turn out to be rubber.
They speak to different characters (pick your poison), but they murmur the same thing. As Mr. Blazy said, "When you wear them, you are the only one that knows" how special they actually are. Even in the shrieking crescendo from the crowd outside when RM from BTS made his entrance, the potency of that suggestion came through.
Photograph Gucci, fall 2023. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO CALANNI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D1); Above, two fall 2023 runway looks from Gucci. Right and far right, Bottega Veneta. Below, Ferragamo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUCCI; ESTROP/GETTY IMAGES; LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Clothing; Logos; K-pop music

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos

Company / organization: Name: Bottega Veneta; NAICS: 449129, 458320, 459420

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/26/style/gucci-bottega-veneta-milan-fashion-week.html

Title: Enter the New Era of Stealth Wealth:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 2, 2023

column: Fashion Review

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2781062442

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/enter-new-era-stealth-wealth/docview/2781062442/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Standouts at the Screen Actors Guild Awards: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/standouts-at-screen-actors-guild-awards/docview/2781062394/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On a night of many, many, many, (so many) stars, here are some outstanding red carpet moments.
Viewers of the livestream of the 29th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards could be forgiven for having a hard time keeping up with the onslaught of outfits on the red carpet. Unlike the Oscars or the Golden Globes, it is an event in which actors nominate and celebrate one another. So although the show wasn't televised, the ceremony, which took place Sunday night at the Fairmont Century Plaza in Century City, Los Angeles, attracted many of the most established names in Hollywood as well as some of the most exciting breakthrough talent of the year: Cate Blanchett, Viola Davis, Michelle Williams, Jamie Lee Curtis, Jennifer Coolidge, Patricia Arquette, Sam Elliott, Brendan Fraser, Haley Lu Richardson, Austin Butler, Jenna Ortega, Stephanie Hsu, Will Sharpe, Mark Indelicato, Megan Stalter and Tyler James Williams are just a sample of who showed up.
A night with so much talent brought a veritable rainbow of gowns -- and suits -- in scorching reds, indelible greens, cheerful yellows and a smattering of every shade of pink. But plenty of staple black, white and silver made an appearance as well. It's hard to go wrong with a well-cut, glittery gown. Below, some standouts.
Michelle Yeoh
The black Schiaparelli couture gown, festooned with a swath of pasta-colored frizz and accessorized with Moussaieff jewelry, was both elegant and strange -- like her role in "Everything Everywhere All At Once."
Eddie Redmayne
Amid a sea of plain black suits, this high-necked Saint Laurent shirt gave the ginger-haired Mr. Redmayne a jaunty vibe.
Ayo Edebiri
In real life, "The Bear" actor likes to keep things cool. Her checkered blue-and-brown Emilia Wickstead dress struck just the right balance of dressed up, but not overdone.
Julia Garner
Would Anna Delvey (née Sorokin) have approved of this copper-hued Gucci gown with shells over the breasts? No matter, because we do.
Quinta Brunson
Lustrous but playful, with a shell top: The "Abbott Elementary" star gave a lesson in standing out while fitting right in.
Mark Indelicato
No monotone here! The "Hacks" star mixed his Calvin Klein suit with a vintage purple Thierry Mugler shirt, with the kind of ruffles you'd want to get lost in.
Hong Chau
Lingerie dresses can risk feeling too underdressed -- but this couture Fendi had enough surface work and textures to keep the eye enthralled.
Danielle Deadwyler
A seriously fancy, scalloped Vuitton dress, fit for a seriously talented actor.
Meghann Fahy
This simple white Ralph Lauren dress with a few cutouts doesn't scream out for attention, but it ends up getting it anyway.
Haley Lu Richardson
If you designed a dress to capture Ms. Richardson's natural effervescence, it might be this one: covered in bubbly white baubles, by Carolina Herrera.
Claire Foy
Regal in a shiny floor-length, acid yellow Prada, with a steeply cut bust and a single strand of diamonds.
Sheryl Lee Ralph
The fierce advice Ms. Ralph's stylist, who also happens to be her daughter, gave her -- "You've got to rise like a phoenix, but younger" -- broke through in her gold Tadashi Shoji ensemble.
Jenna Ortega
A little rock, a little goth. It was hard not to want to see Ms. Ortega break out into her viral Wednesday Addams dance, wearing this black Versace.
Amanda Seyfried
Ripping off Elizabeth Holmes's tech uniform, Ms. Seyfried gave off a '60s go-go dancer vibe with her green-apple Prada.
Austin Butler
Still channeling the King of Rock, a little flare goes a long way in this deep burgundy tuxedo by Gucci.
Rooney Mara
Delicate panels of black lace make an image of a feathered bird over the front of this Alexander McQueen dress.
Niecy Nash-Betts
Her spectacularly bright yellow Vera Wang gown brought some much needed sun on a rare rainy day in Los Angeles.
Will Sharpe
The "White Lotus" star made red the peekaboo color of the season with his Ferragamo shirt.
Cate Blanchett
In this Giorgio Armani Prive gown, a sequin bodice gave way to lace detailing. Lydia Tar would never, but that's just fine.
Sam Elliott
That head of hair and signature mustache could make anyone want to go gray.
Ana De Armas
Critics are split on her portrayal of Marilyn Monroe, but there's no denying the high glamour of her slinky custom Vuitton dress.
Zendaya
A human bouquet of roses in her strapless Valentino.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JORDAN STRAUSS/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES; VALERIE MACON/ AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; AUDE GUERRUCCI/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Handbags & purses

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Blanchett, Cate; Indelicato, Mark; Elliott, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Screen Actors Guild; NAICS: 813930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/27/style/sag-awards-red-carpet-fashion.html

Title: Standouts at the Screen Actors Guild Awards:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 2, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2781062394

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/standouts-at-screen-actors-guild-awards/docview/2781062394/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Snow Sports At a Climate Crossroads: [Style Desk]

Author: Craven, Jasper

Publication info: Craven, Jasper. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/snow-sports-at-climate-crossroads/docview/2779829786/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On Feb. 1, 2021, during the biggest blizzard to hit New York City in five years, snowboarders turned city spots into their playground. Hollis DuPre, 23, grinded rails at 30 Rockefeller Plaza. Jayell White, a 30-year-old Bronx native, popped off a brick wall in Battery Park.
All of this was documented in the first film produced by Hell Gate, a scrappy snowboard crew. Last year, the crew's second video, "Gate 2 Hell," started on a far gloomier note. Trung Nguyen, 29, hiked up a mound of road salt. At the top, he dropped in and slid down the sodium chloride.
Cooper Winterson, a 28-year-old Hell Gate rider, said Mr. Nguyen's trick "plays out as an ironic metaphor for what we're dealing with. We don't have enough snow to get clips, so we're snowboarding on salt," which, he pointed out, is used to combat snowstorms.
New York City is in a snow drought. Hell Gate's members have had to travel instead to Buffalo, Albany and Poughkeepsie -- or to Big Snow, billed America's first and only indoor snow arena, at the American Dream mall in East Rutherford, N.J. The sealed slope ensures that, according to its website, "every day is a snow day."
This message is cheerily reinforced by the mountain's yeti mascot, who, on a recent Sunday, was seen twerking near the chair lift as house music played over echoey loudspeakers. Big Snow opened in 2019, and its everlasting winter has been repeatedly disrupted, first by the pandemic and then because of an electrical fire that broke out inside the 180,000-square-foot dome.
As climate change rewires the world's weather patterns, skiers and snowboarders -- along with the companies that outfit them -- are pondering a future without snow.
"Our season is certainly shorter than it was in the past," said Ali Kenney, 44, the chief strategy officer for Burton Snowboards. "Before, you could depend on a Thanksgiving and Christmas rush. Now, most of our activity is January to March."
Over the coming decades, winter's window is expected to shrink even more. One recent study led by researchers at the University of Waterloo warned that, by 2100, only one of the 21 previous Winter Olympics locations will have enough snow and ice to reliably host the Games. In response, many snow sports companies are diversifying. Salomon, once known for skis, has largely become an outfitter of running shoes, while Lib Tech, a snowboard manufacturer, now also makes surfboards. Burton, the company that pioneered and popularized snowboarding, is viewed as the sport's leader. It has nurtured the sport in important ways, including by helping bring snowboarding into the Olympics, and then supporting many Olympic snowboarders.
The company is now fighting to keep its cherished (and most profitable) season alive, but is also forced to hedge for the heat. Though it wants to save snowboarding, it also knows it needs to transcend it. Burton is attempting this tricky balance through a combination of environmental practices, promoting policies to protect winter, and efforts to diversify and expand snowboarding, which has long been dominated by a white and largely affluent ridership. 'We Cannot Ignore It'
In 1977, Jake Burton Carpenter founded Burton out of his Vermont barn. Donna Carpenter now owns the company, taking it over after her husband's death in 2019. In August of last year, Bloomberg reported that the private, family-owned company was exploring a sale, though Ms. Carpenter later denied it.
The Green Mountains in Vermont are far smaller than the peaks out west, but the state has been credited with popularizing snowboarding. In 1983, Stratton Mountain, in southern Vermont, became the first resort to welcome snowboarders, then developed training programs for them. The idea for the gravity-defying halfpipe -- a long U-shaped feature, borrowed from skateboarding, that flings snowboarders high into the air -- was developed in the state. Many of the sport's top athletes were reared there, too.
Through the aughts, Vermont winters were reliably cold, and snowstorms were common. Each time 24 or more inches fell, Mr. Carpenter gave his employees in Burlington, Vt., the day off to hit the slopes.
Now a new form of winter is taking hold, one plagued by warm snaps and rain. A recent assessment from the University of Vermont warned that, by 2080, the state's ski season could be shortened by a month. As good storms become less reliable, Burton has loosened its snow day rules, and now shuts down if a foot or more is projected.
"There's a lot less energy around here when no one is feeling like they can get out and ride and experience the feeling that we are all seeking," Ms. Kenney said. "The positive is that it increases the energy and commitment around our climate work. But it's hard for it not to take a toll emotionally."
The University of Vermont also studies snow's shifting qualities. Kate Hale, a snow hydrologist at the university, said that light fluffy powder will become rarer as winters become more volatile. "Champagne powder requires consistently cold temperatures," said Dr. Hale, 31.
Jeremy Jones, 48, a legendary backcountry rider, is torn up over a future without powder, which he described in almost spiritual terms. "It's this weightless, effortless descent," he said. "You're barely connected to the earth."
Mr. Jones carved his first turns at his childhood home on a board aptly named the Burton Backhill. Danny Davis, 34, a Burton rider and former Olympian, grew up on a Kmart board in his Michigan yard. Zeb Powell, a 23-year-old Burton pro, credits his mesmerizing bag of tricks to the Cataloochee Ski Area, a modest North Carolina mountain that, because of its limited features, forced him to be unconventional.
Low-altitude (and generally cheaper) slopes incubated talent and improvisation. This advanced the snowboarding's countercultural flair, known as "steez," a term popularized by the rapper Method Man that's used to hail a snowboarder's blend of style and ease. As snow migrates to ever higher elevations, accessible paths into the sport start to disappear, leaving only the biggest and most expensive resorts.
"I don't know if today I'd be able to learn in my front yard," Mr. Davis said. "The snow just doesn't stick around Michigan like it used to."
Much of the world is facing similar issues. Dachstein, a receding Austrian glacier where the 2022 Olympic gold medalist Anna Gasser honed her skills, closed for this entire season. Snowboarders see climate change up close, said Ms. Gasser, 31: "We cannot ignore it."
In 2011, Ms. Kenney traveled across Europe and produced a troubling report on the future of the snowboarding industry there. She spent the next six months drafting plans for a sustainability program within Burton. She pitched them to Ms. Carpenter, who deputized her to overhaul company procedures.
Because Burton is family owned, Ms. Kenney said this work has been unencumbered by a "fiduciary duty to pursue profits at all costs," adding that Burton's efforts to become climate positive are costing millions in revenue each year.
Ms. Kenney is also mulling support for research on future snow patterns. These days, Burton makes conservative inventory estimates, then transports gear to places that have snow. This year, that's been Japan and much of the American West, with even the temperate climate of Southern California experiencing rare blizzard conditions in and around the area.
At the same time, the East Coast and much of Europe is suffering. While Switzerland has been plagued by historically warm temperatures, Utah's snowpack is 170 percent of the average, which, while generally appreciated, has also created avalanche risks and infrastructure headaches that have led to some temporary resort closures.
In 2013, Burton became the biggest financial backer to Protect Our Winters (POW), an advocacy group focused on climate policy founded by Mr. Jones in 2007. That same year, in a seemingly practical calculation, the company started its first spring/summer collection, which "captures the spirit of snowboarding in styles for hot days and long nights."
In 2019, Burton became snowboarding's first certified B corporation, a rigorous designation based on intense observation of company practices that followed years of work to balance profit, purpose and environmental accountability. It has introduced refurbishment and resale programs, and overhauled its supply chain with an eye toward sustainability.
With Burton's blessing, riders, including Mr. Davis, have lobbied Capitol Hill lawmakers. Many are Republicans representing communities used to the cold and snow, including Representative John Curtis, Republican of Utah, a POW ally and founding member of the Conservative Climate Caucus who has used America's bipartisan love of winter sports to push climate policies. Last year, he went hiking in his Utah district with POW athletes.
Mr. Davis said winter's disappearance would "be so much more dire than sliding on snow," invoking the specter of water shortages. "Snow is critical to humanity whether you like it or not."
POW has also used its platform to call out those it sees as obstacles, including Jay Kemmerer, the owner of Jackson Hole Mountain Resort, who has adopted green resort practices -- like renewable energy and water conservation habits -- while also supporting politicians who deny climate change. Other snow resorts have also donated to climate-change deniers. (Earlier this month, 200 athletes signed a POW letter demanding that the International Ski and Snowboard Federation do far more to fight climate change.)
Ms. Kenney is also frustrated by some of Burton's corporate peers. "Many companies are owned by private equity or a big holding company," she said. "If snowboarding starts to decline, their reaction is, 'Let's just get out of that sport or sell that brand."' (While snowboarders and skiers have long had a frosty relationship -- largely because ski resorts long banned snowboarders from their terrain -- Ms. Kenney praised Atomic, the world's largest ski maker, which earlier this month announced a POW partnership, alongside efforts to adopt green company practices.)
At the same time, high-end fashion houses have ventured into the industry. Saint Laurent, Louis Vuitton and Dior are making luxe snowboards and outerwear for the sport. The U.S. Olympian Julia Marino won a silver medal at the 2022 Olympics on a Prada board. In 2016, Trevor Andrews, a Burton rider, was hired by Gucci to make his bootleg "GucciGhost" designs official. That same year, Burton collaborated with Jeff Koons to design a snowboard.
Tucker Zink is the general manager for Darkside Snowboards in Vermont, which operates three stores that have expanded to carry skateboarding and mountain biking gear. His store is now supplying more expensive options to attract high-fashion customers, many of whom flocked to resort towns during the pandemic. But in an attempt to protect snowboarding's proletariat, Darkside has also built the "Dark Park," located behind its Killington store, which offers day and nighttime riding, for free.
A Faint Smell of Plastic
Burton opened its first New York store in SoHo in 2005 on the corner of Spring and Mercer Streets. It featured a "cold room" where customers could test outerwear in frigid conditions. The store has since moved to a new outpost, on Greene Street. It may be the only place in the city where you can get a board waxed, and is a stop for OVRRIDE, a company that shuttles urbanites to the snowy north. It's also an unofficial gathering place for the city's snowboarding diaspora.
As Burton tries to branch out, the company has various programs to support new riders, with a particular focus on bringing Black snowboarders to the mountain. Selema Masekela, 51, a longtime X Games host and Burton board member, is helping lead these initiatives, which are informed by his decades of mistreatment on the mountain. "I got every sort of look and verbal thing thrown at me," he said.
The late Virgil Abloh, an avid snowboarder, designed Burton collections in 2018 and 2022. These lines fueled the company's efforts to introduce the sport to people of color, most notably through the Chill program, which says it has introduced the sport to thousands of people, chiefly by subsidizing the costs to get up on the slopes and learn.
One of those athletes is Brolin Mawejji, 30, who started snowboarding as a boy after landing in Massachusetts as a Ugandan refugee. In 2022, he became the first snowboarder to represent his country in the Winter Olympics. He said that amid the trauma and instability of his childhood, "snowboarding gave me inner peace." On a drizzly evening earlier this month, Burton's SoHo store hosted a party for its new collaboration with the rap group Run DMC. The collection was spearheaded by T.J. and Jesse Mizell, two sons of Jam Master Jay, the group's D.J., who was fatally shot in 2002.
The Mizells said they hoped their line would encourage more Black people to get into snowboarding, or at least borrow the sport's style. "We want to see people walking through SoHo in Burton being like, 'I've never ridden a snowboard before, but this tech is insane," said T.J. Mizell, 31.
Perhaps the most hyped-up rider at the event was LJ Henriquez, a 14-year-old prodigy from New Jersey who largely built his skills at Big Snow's mall hill, which is more accessible than most mountains, relatively cheap and offers eerily consistent conditions. The short and narrow slope is dotted with fake Christmas trees and illuminated by harsh fluorescent flood lighting. It's stocked with rows of industrial-grade air-conditioners and has a faint smell of plastic.
"You're missing the birds and the trees and the sun, which is weird," said Brian Burke, a 31-year-old from Maine, who waited in the Big Snow line while a cheerleading competition wrapped up in the atrium below. The pro snowboarder Mr. Powell, after his own recent visit, leaned into Big Snow's bizarre locale by snowboarding down a mall escalator.
There's also a clear difference between feathery natural snow and its fabricated form. Each real crystal is beautiful and unique, while the fabricated stuff is akin to chopped ice. (Ms. Hale, the winter researcher, said the natural flake -- known scientifically as the stellar dendrite -- cannot be replicated by a snow gun.)
On a recent weekend, there was an eclectic mix of skiers and riders at Big Snow, along with many mall-goers who stared at the mountain through big windows, seemingly astonished at the sight of a substance that has barely fallen all year. Top, a ski lesson at Big Snow, inside the American Dream mall in East Rutherford, N.J. Below, Burton Team Riders at the SoHo store. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONAH ROSENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JESSE DAWSON) (ST10); Top, the view from the chairlift at Big Snow in East Rutherford, N.J. Above, a window at the base of the hill there. Bottom, Jake Burton, left, and the artist Jeff Koons with their limited edition snowboard at Koons's studio in Chelsea. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONAH ROSENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ANDREW WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST11) This article appeared in print on page ST10, ST11.

Subject: Olympic games; Cold; Snowboarding; Climate policy; Water shortages; Snow; Resorts & spas; Winter sports; Environmental policy; Climate change

Business indexing term: Subject: Resorts & spas

Location: United States--US; New York City New York; Michigan; Vermont; Europe; Utah

Company / organization: Name: University of Vermont; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/25/style/snowboarding-brands-burton.html

Title: Snow Sports At a Climate Crossroads:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829786

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/snow-sports-at-climate-crossroads/docview/2779829786/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Diesel Is Here to Show Us Why Designers Matter: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/diesel-is-here-show-us-why-designers-matter/docview/2779829777/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Glenn Martens makes the case with condoms, fun and mind-blowing technique.
MILAN -- Ever since Pharrell Williams, pop culture Renaissance man, was named creative director of Louis Vuitton men's wear just over a week ago, nabbing one of the most high-profile positions at one of the most high-profile brands in the world, a sort of existential debate has gone on about the meaning of the term "designer."
Can anyone with eye-catching taste and a track record of hits (in any artistic discipline) be a designer? Is a high profile and a lot of followers more important than an understanding of how fabric hangs on the body? Does a fashion company even need a real designer any more? At least one with actual, you know, formal training?
Two words: Glenn Martens. On Wednesday the creative director of Diesel demonstrated exactly the kind of difference a real designer can make.
He did it with humor and creativity and integrity, by balancing meme bait with invention and a spidey sense of the prevailing mood. Starting with a selfie-ready set involving a mountain of 200,000 scarlet condom boxes, a soundtrack punctuated by orgasmic grunts and gasps, and a cheesy bit of wordplay: changing the brand's "For Successful Living" motto to "For Sucsexful Living." (Mr. Martens is not a snob about what gets people's juices flowing; he loves a bit of the lowbrow.)
That was a nod to a new collaboration with the condom makers Durex, a sly pairing and a nod to Diesel's history as a rock 'n' roll brand with a social justice agenda, as well as Mr. Martens's belief that sustainability comes in all forms: environmental and personal. That, as he said in a preview, you should "have fun, enjoy your life. Live it to the fullest. But be respectful to each other." Take care of each other.
Fun enough. Sex and the thrill of the naked (or mostly naked) body has been something of a trend for the past year. And indeed, Mr. Martens brought back the bumster -- successor to the viral pelmet belt/skirt of last season -- as well as chopping off the waistband of another pair of jeans, leaving only two belt loops, so the pants were held up by a rhinestone chain around the belly. But what takes his work to a different level is that behind the schtick is all sorts of substance.
He can do things with denim, the life blood of Diesel and also most wardrobes, that are almost impossible to imagine. That, in fact, hadn't been imagined. If Renzo Rosso, Diesel's founder and owner, invented distressed denim (as Mr. Martens says he claims to have done), Mr. Martens has altered the whole concept.
He introduced, for example, devoré denim. What even is that?
It's denim given a treatment normally applied to velvet, so the fabric fades into polyester organza like it has been eaten away into memory, creating a sheer lacy effect that lay like a scrim over patches of the body in a long corseted dress, a skirt, a trouser. And it was just the beginning.
The same effect was created with trompe l'oeil jersey cardigans and pencil skirts silk-screened to look like denim, while a long dun-tone duster had been washed and distressed so it looked like beat-up leather just emerged from a trek across Route 80 after the zombie apocalypse, only instead of being stiff it had the gentle liquidity of jersey. Peekaboo windows were cut into more jersey to expose layers beneath, and a long-sleeve denim minidress was covered in dried paint with a metallic gleam, like a cracked sidewalk paved with silver.
One coat made from the deadstock linings left over from previous collections had been coated with heated plastic (Remember: condoms! Get it?) and then scrunched into a rippling, puffer-like shape, as if a muscle car had risen from the junkyard. Deadstock shearling was bonded with distressed denim until it began escaping through the rips and tears.
It was beautiful and dystopian at the same time. And technically masterful.
Afterward, audience members snapped photos of themselves lounging in the condom foothills before the boxes were to be shipped to Diesel stores in Italy and handed out free. (Another 300,000 condoms were destined for Diesel stores in other countries, but because of regulations they had to be produced locally).
In a little more than two years, Mr. Martens has transformed Diesel from a successful but largely irrelevant and noise-making jeans brand, with shows that most attendees viewed on sufferance if they viewed them at all, into one of the most anticipated events of the whole season. It's a turnaround no one could have predicted when Mr. Rosso named Mr. Martens -- as head of the high-concept, very niche Y/Project line, sort of a designer's designer -- as creative director. Half the people in the room Wednesday were marveling about the fact they wanted to be there at all.
Before Covid, the opening honor of the Italian shows went to Gucci, then the greatest Italian success story of the past decade. Now it is Diesel. It has become the magnet that draws people in; the source, against all odds, of fashion FOMO. The answer to the question of why designers matter.
Photograph Top, above and right, models with pieces from the Diesel fall 2023 collection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Clothing; Condoms; Denim; Designers

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/23/style/diesel-glenn-martens-milan-fashion-week.html

Title: Diesel Is Here to Show Us Why Designers Matter:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

column: Fashion Review

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829777

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/diesel-is-here-show-us-why-designers-matter/docview/2779829777/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Californians Are Chill About Shedding Their Fur: [Style Desk]

Author: Berlinger, Max

Publication info: Berlinger, Max. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/californians-are-chill-about-shedding-their-fur/docview/2779829672/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The popularity of fur products had been diminishing in the state even before the new ban.
LOS ANGELES -- From the overcast coasts of San Francisco to the nippy shores of Newport Beach, the denizens of California will have to rethink their approach to buying fur -- that is, if they think about it at all.
So a law banning the sale and manufacture of luxury pelts like mink, sable, chinchilla, lynx, fox, rabbit and beaver that went into effect in California in January has so far been largely met with a shrug -- and one decidedly not of the fur variety.
"I honestly think it's much ado about nothing," said Cameron Silver, the longtime owner of the high-end designer vintage shop Decades. "So many brands have stopped doing fur anyway -- Valentino, Gucci, Dolce -- there's just a shift," he said.
Nicole Pollard Bayme, a native Angeleno and the founder of the personal styling and shopping service Lalaluxe, said she hadn't seen people wearing fur for years. "This isn't some new thing," she said. "So, no, it's not like 'boohoo, it's going away."'
She added: "There was a bigger ripple when Chanel stopped selling crocodile."
With California's mild climate and eco-conscious reputation, some have said that a ban on fur sales in the state is more of a symbolic gesture than practical measure.
The statewide ban, the first of its kind in the country, codifies what was a growing movement happening at the city level in recent years. (Los Angeles, West Hollywood, San Francisco and Berkeley had similar bans before.) This law extends the city bans already in effect in some areas across the country's most populous state, one that, despite certain clichés, encompasses a wide variety of landscapes and political affiliations.
"California is a big state, and there are parts that are very snowy," said Laura Friedman, who represents California's 44th Assembly District and who drafted the legislation. "I just flew over Northern California mountains, and they're covered in snow. And people also wear garments here for status purposes."
Ms. Friedman said the legislation emerged out of concern for animal welfare as well as the "unsustainability of raising and killing animals strictly for their fur."
"We wanted to get that out of the California product chain," she said.
But cultural norms may be further ahead of the state's legislature.
"Buying real fur is not part of the conversation, to be honest," said Vanessa Shokrian, a wardrobe and editorial stylist in Los Angeles. "People are not dying for it. I think faux fur has become an industry because of it."
Though, as the recent uproar over the Schiaparelli couture show -- which prominently featured the fake heads of a snow leopard, wolf and lion adorned with silk pelts -- demonstrated, even faux fur can prove controversial. (To complicate matters, fake fur is often made from plastics, making its status as "sustainable" a source of contention as well.)
Still, Ms. Pollard Bayme noted that some of her clients -- many of whom are high profile -- did own fur pieces, and they are still able to wear them under the current law. "But we're advising our clients to not wear fur in L.A.," she said.
And while California may not be Paris, St. Moritz or Moscow, where fur is de rigueur, the state still has its own connection with the fur trade. "People did used to wear them to the opera, at restaurants, movie premieres, tea parties, to the Oscars and, of course, in the movies," said Kimberly Chrisman-Campbell, the author of "Worn on This Day: The Clothes That Made History."
Popular California designers of Hollywood's Golden Age, like Gilbert Adrian, who dressed Joan Crawford and Greta Garbo, and James Galanos, who outfitted Nancy Reagan and was popular among socialites, were known to use fur trimmings in their work. Mr. Galanos even had an entire licensed line, Galanos Furs.
"There was a lot of fur, but if you look closely, it's often a fur stole or a coat with a fur collar because it really was too hot," Ms. Chrisman-Campbell said.
There was also, for a time, a robust fur business in Los Angeles, with furriers concentrated in the city's downtown garment district in the mid-20th century. Many department stores in Beverly Hills housed fur "studios" or "salons" catering to wealthy clientele. And since fur coats ‌also ‌require upkeep, to discourage the evaporation of naturally occurring oils in the pelts that keep them soft and pliable, many local furriers or luxury stores would offer refrigerated storage during the summer months, Ms. Chrisman-Campbell noted.
The fur business began to wane in the late 1980s, with the collision of warming weather, an economic crash and rising animal rights activism. Since then, technological advances in textiles have yielded fabrics like Gore-Tex and various polyester blends that are both lightweight and weatherproof, which have hastened the market's decline -- so have consumer preferences, which have broadly trended toward ‌more casual attire.
"Tastes have changed," said Mr. Silver, the vintage shop owner.
While it may be seen as a symbolic undertaking to some, California's fur ban could have a far-reaching impact. "Fur is such a nonnecessity in Los Angeles," Mr. Silver said. "But what's that saying? As goes California, so goes the nation."
Lawmakers in New York City introduced a proposal to ban fur sales in 2019, the same year California passed its law -- yet another example of the New York-California mind-meld.
And perhaps there is an imperceptible shift at play. "I will say that in 2019, with my clients, there was a conversation about -- what do I do with all these furs that I've collected now that it's politically incorrect?" Ms. Pollard Bayme said.
Photograph California furriers once dressed wealthy clients, left. New fur sales were already illegal in cities like San Francisco, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DICK WHITTINGTON STUDIO/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES; JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (ST8-ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Bans; Sales

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales

Location: California; Los Angeles California; United States--US; San Francisco California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/23/style/fur-sales-california.html

Title: Californians Are Chill About Shedding Their Fur:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829672

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/californians-are-chill-about-shedding-their-fur/docview/2779829672/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump Team Says Juror 'Poisoned' Georgia Case: [National Desk]

Author: Fausset, Richard; Hakim, Danny

Publication info: Fausset, Richard; Hakim, Danny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-team-says-juror-poisoned-georgia-case/docview/2779149172/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The lawyers said public comments by the forewoman of the special grand jury that investigated election interference had "poisoned" the process. But they have yet to challenge anything in court.
ATLANTA -- Lawyers for former President Donald J. Trump said late Wednesday that details divulged this week by the forewoman of a special grand jury investigating election interference by Mr. Trump and his allies had "poisoned" the Georgia inquiry.
As of Thursday afternoon, however, the two lawyers had not filed any motions in court challenging the inquiry. Nor would they discuss what form such a challenge might take, saying only that they were weighing their options. "We're just considering everything," one of the lawyers, Drew Findling, said.
Earlier this week, the forewoman, Emily Kohrs, spoke in interviews with a number of news outlets after The Associated Press identified her through a public records request. She said that the 23-person special grand jury, which can only make recommendations on whether prosecutors should indict, had made such recommendations for more than a dozen people in the case. Fani T. Willis, the Fulton County district attorney, who is handling the case, will ultimately make charging decisions and bring them to a regular grand jury.
Ms. Kohrs declined to name names or say which laws the jurors believed had been broken. But asked if Mr. Trump was among those recommended for indictment, she told The New York Times: "You're not going to be shocked. It's not rocket science."
Some outside legal experts have said that Ms. Kohrs's public comments present a headache, if nothing else, for prosecutors because the forewoman, who described some of her interactions with witnesses in light and playful language, could be seen as diminishing the gravity of the proceedings. Others expressed doubt that her comments would have much impact, if any, on the case, in part because special grand juries cannot bring criminal charges. Regardless, there is little precedent to go on because special grand juries are relatively rare.
"I don't know if it's the wisest thing or the best appearance that the prosecutors would want," said John B. Meixner Jr., a law professor at the University of Georgia and former federal prosecutor, "but I certainly don't see anything so far that would taint anything presented to the later grand jury that would hand down indictments."
Jeff DiSantis, a spokesman for the Fulton County district attorney's office, declined to comment on the Trump lawyers' criticism of the case. He noted that the office had nothing to do with Ms. Kohrs's media appearances.
Mr. Trump is seen as having two main areas of particular legal jeopardy in the Georgia inquiry: the calls he made to pressure state officials to overturn the 2020 election, and his direct involvement in efforts to assemble an alternate slate of electors even after three vote counts affirmed President Biden's victory in the state.
In the interviews -- which laid out a number of details of her experience on the grand jury -- Ms. Kohrs, 30, said she was trying to carefully follow the rules for jurors set out by the judge, Robert C.I. McBurney of Fulton County Superior Court. Judge McBurney has not barred the jurors from talking, though they are restricted from discussing their deliberations.
The lawyers, however, said that Ms. Kohrs, in discussing the case, had in fact divulged a number of matters that they believed constituted "deliberations," including jurors' discussions about "who to call, why to call them" and "what battles they wanted to fight," Jennifer Little, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, said.
But in an interview with the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Judge McBurney said he told jurors that deliberations are only "the discussions they had amongst themselves when it was just the grand jurors in the room." By contrast, if a witness or prosecutor was in the room, "that's not deliberations," he said. "They're not prohibited from talking about that, nor are they prohibited from talking about the fruit of their deliberations, which would be the final report."
The Georgia investigation has lasted two years but has gathered momentum in recent weeks with the announcement, in January, that the special grand jury had completed its work and had written a final report.
The concerns about the case were raised in an interview late Wednesday at the Atlanta offices of Mr. Findling, a high-profile defense lawyer who has represented a number of rappers, including Cardi B and Gucci Mane. He was joined by Ms. Little, a former prosecutor in neighboring DeKalb County.
Mr. Findling said that by hinting that the jury had recommended a number of indictments, Ms. Kohrs had "poisoned" the pool of potential jurors for a regular grand jury that could eventually decide whether to issue criminal indictments.
"If, let's say, there is a recommendation to go to a grand jury," he said, "all potential grand juries in this part of the country that listen to a radio, read a newspaper, watch TV, go online, look at the news alerts on their phone, are now reading about the deliberations or what could be interpreted as the deliberations of that grand jury."
Mr. Trump himself blasted Ms. Kohrs on Truth Social on Wednesday for "doing a Media Tour revealing, incredibly, the Grand Jury's inner workings & thoughts."
Among the Trump lawyers' criticisms of the investigation was Ms. Kohrs's public comment that jurors had discussed media coverage of the case. "They were permitted during the course of seven months to read your newspaper, to read the local newspaper, to watch the news, to go on the internet and apparently even able to bring those sources of material into the four corners of the grand jury room?" Mr. Findling said. "What kind of reliable body is that?"
Special grand juries, however, operate differently than federal grand juries or many state grand juries. There has been no indication, in public filings or in open court hearings, that jurors were prohibited from reading or watching news reports about the case.
Mr. Findling and Ms. Little argued that some of the details Ms. Kohrs discussed underscored what Ms. Little called the "flippant, jovial, almost disrespectful approach" of the broader investigation. Mr. Findling lamented the fact that Ms. Kohrs, in one interview, said that she swore in a witness while holding a popsicle, referring to the proceedings as a "clown show."
Clark D. Cunningham, a law professor at Georgia State University, said Ms. Kohrs's interviews suggested that the district attorney might be wise to "make no mention of the special grand jury report or its findings" when she seeks indictments before a regular grand jury. That, he added, would preclude arguments from defense lawyers "that indictments were tainted by the views and opinions of the special grand jury.
Melissa D. Redmon, a law professor at the University of Georgia who has been a prosecutor in Fulton and Clayton counties, said, "As a prosecutor I wouldn't want anybody to say anything." However, she added, "I do believe this grand juror stayed within the bounds of what's permissible."
Mr. Findling said that the legal team did not wish to cast aspersions on Ms. Kohrs personally, saying that the lawyers "hold no chagrin to a young person that has no involvement in the criminal legal system that walked into this."
Ms. Kohrs could not be reached for comment on Wednesday.
The Georgia investigation has emerged as one of the most potent potential legal threats to Mr. Trump, though there are others. The Manhattan district attorney is investigating hush money payments made to a porn star, and a special counsel in Washington is looking into the handling of classified documents as well as Mr. Trump's actions leading up to the riot at the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021.
Photograph Former President Donald J. Trump could be in legal jeopardy over his pressing Georgia officials to overturn the 2020 election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TULLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Indictments; Court hearings & proceedings; Criminal investigations; Presidential elections; District attorneys; Interviews; Grand juries; Public prosecutors

Location: United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: University of Georgia; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/23/us/trump-legal-team-assails-georgia-inquiry.html

Title: Trump Team Says Juror 'Poisoned' Georgia Case:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 24, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779149172

Document URL: https://www.proquest.co m/newspapers/trump-team-says-juror-poisoned-georgia-case/docview/2779149172/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Good Riddance Gives Way to Love: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Pareles, Jon

Publication info: Pareles, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/good-riddance-gives-way-love/docview/2777801992/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Karol G, a global pop star from Colombia, said she wrote 60 songs, maybe more, for her new album, "Mañana Será Bonito" ("Tomorrow Will Be Beautiful"); eventually she winnowed them down to 17.
The first ones, she recalled in a video chat from Medellín, Colombia, were full of "anger, sadness, bad love, toxic relationships." They reflected the fallout of her 2021 breakup with the Puerto Rican rapper and singer Anuel AA, after the end of a romance they had made public with a 2019 duet, "Secreto," that has since been streamed more than a billion times.
Karol G, 32, wrote about feeling betrayed, about temptations and doubts, about partying away the pain, about no-strings sex with an ex. But eventually, she found herself writing wary love songs and counting her blessings. Just a few weeks before the album's Feb. 24 release, she was wondering if she had been too candid.
"I'm being really open with this album, and that gets me a little bit scared, because I'm not a perfect human," she said from her office in her hometown, where she had just returned to meet her sister's newborn.
Karol G, born Carolina Giraldo Navarro, was wearing an oversized white hoodie, one of 100 that she has decorated by hand for a limited-edition merch sale. Her hair, which has changed color for each album and tour cycle -- with her fans attending concerts in matching wigs -- was the bold red she unveiled in recent videos.
"The album is more Carolina than Karol G," she said. "Personal things that I had inside me, I was just letting them go in my lyrics. People are going to know about a lot of my personal life with my songs. But I don't want to have the songs inside me anymore, because I know people can heal a lot of things with music. Writing songs for me is a really good way to heal things that I can't explain."
She admitted to prerelease jitters. "Right now, I notice that artists are trying very hard to find a concept, to be very experimental," she said. "I love that. And that's a good way to do art. But the concept of this album is just me being me. I really didn't want people to feel it was like very simple, or just normal. But then we put up the announcement of my album, and there's already more than 80 million views on Instagram. Now I'm stressed because I think that expectations are very high."
"Mañana Será Bonito" is primed to be a blockbuster in the wake of Karol G's 2021 album, "KG0516." That LP included her billion-streaming 2019 collaboration with Nicki Minaj, "Tusa," and her self-mythologizing 2020 "Bichota," a word Karol G coined to turn "bichote" -- Puerto Rican slang for a drug kingpin -- into a feminine noun for, as she says, "a boss bitch," a sexy and powerful woman.
Her new slang caught on. "'Bichota' became a movement," she said. "Las bichotas don't cry, las bichotas work for themselves, las bichotas are big, las bichotas are strong, las bichotas can do everything. Everybody can have good songs, everybody can have a moment. But to have a movement, it's a different thing to find. And I think it's something that you don't find if you're looking for it."
Karol G played the main stage of Coachella in 2022, pointedly including a medley of worldwide hits in Spanish from acts who had never performed at the festival, including Selena, Ricky Martin, Luis Fonsi, Daddy Yankee and Shakira. "It was special for me to say with my show, I'm here now and I feel really proud," she said. "But I have to say that I'm here because of this music that opened those doors for us to be here."
The core of Karol G's music is the loping beat of reggaeton. But her songs replace the genre's usual rapping with inviting pop melodies, delivered in her clear, teasing voice. Instead of reggaeton's machismo, she offers cheerful, forthrightly sex-positive femininity.
With each album, Karol G has also reached beyond reggaeton to collaborate with an international array of guests -- a sign of Latin pop's ever-expanding, border-crossing possibilities. "Right now is a really special moment with Latin music," she said, "because everybody in the world is like, 'I don't care if I know the words or not,' but they connect with our sounds."
Karol G grew up surrounded by music. Her father -- who was her protector and manager in her early career -- sang with a band and brought home all sorts of music: "Rock 'n' roll, salsa, ballads, reggaeton, vallenatos, everything," she recalled.
From an early age, she knew she wanted to sing. As a teenager, she auditioned unsuccessfully for the Colombian edition of the music reality competition "The X Factor," but soon afterward signed to record with the Puerto Rican label Diamond Music -- a contract her father bought her out of two years later. By 2012, she had grown so discouraged that she decided to give up on music and study marketing in New York City.
"My father stopped talking to me for three months," she recalled. "He was like, 'No, you can't do that. You are throwing away seven years of our hard work. I know who you are. I know we can get it. It's hard, but when we get it, it's going to be bigger than the rest."'
An advertisement for a music-business conference in Boston caught her eye as she was riding buses in New York. On an impulse, she attended, and it was a turning point. "I know I love music and I do this for passion," she said. "But the teaching at that conference was how the music can be a really big business, and how you can work like that."
She returned to Colombia, enrolled to study music at the University of Antioquia, released songs independently and performed at every opportunity, eventually singing duets with established reggaeton stars like Nicky Jam. Her 2017 debut album, "Unstoppable," included duets with Bad Bunny and Quavo (from Migos), and it brought her a 2018 Latin Grammy Award as best new artist. Her popularity has only grown since then, stoked by lusty songs like "Mi Cama" ("My Bed") and "Punto G" ("G-Spot"). In Latin America, she headlines stadiums.
Her constant collaborator has been Daniel Echavarría Oviedo, who records as Ovy on the Drums and has produced the vast majority of her songs. He tailors and refines reggaeton and other beats to suit her voice; he also strives to match her ambitions. "Karol's mind is always going," he said in a video chat from Los Angeles. "She always has an objective as to where the direction of the song should be, where the lyrics should go. She's always thinking what's the next move, the next step, the next accomplishment?"
On "Mañana Será Bonito," Karol G worked with Finneas (Billie Eilish's brother and collaborator), the Jamaican dancehall singer Sean Paul, the Bronx-born bachata singer Romeo Santos, the Dominican dembowsero Angel Dior, and her forerunner as a Colombian superstar, Shakira. She also embraces an elder generation of reggaeton with "Gatúbela" ("Catwoman"), a racy duet with Maldy, a Puerto Rican rapper from the duo Plan B, which released its first album in 2002.
"I had never done anything with a woman before," Maldy said in a phone interview via a translator. "But it was very natural. Being with a woman that brings that sensuality made the right combination for the song to have such an impact. She has the charisma to bring reggaeton to another genre. And international collaborations expand reggaeton, to maximize it culturally."
Karol G insists that her hybrids and connections are a matter of instinct, not crossover marketing. "For me to go to different styles of music, different genres is not hard, because I have music from everywhere that I really love," she said. "I'm trying to show the world more what I do, instead of just doing things to open that door. I want to do it with my real identity. If I feel in my mind that a song has that feeling I go that way: 'This is a rock, this is a salsa, this is a corrido mexicano."'
She had a hit with the Mexican-style waltz "200 Copas" ("200 Drinks") from "KG0516," in which she advises a friend to dump a terrible boyfriend and go out drinking. The new album has another one, "Gucci Los Paños," ("Gucci Towels") which furiously and profanely rejects an ex-boyfriend's attempts to get back together. "If we're going to do a really heartbroken song that needs to sound really angry, for me you have to use Mexican sounds," she said.
Another of the album's good-riddance songs is "TGQ," the duet with Shakira -- a pairing Karol G had long hoped for. They had sent each other songs in recent years, but none had seemed exactly right. Now, with Shakira singing openly about her own breakup, Karol G thought they might share another song in which she was "letting a lot of anger go." When Shakira heard it, Karol G said, "She was, like 'Oh my God, thank you. Those lyrics are perfectly the way I feel right now."' They completed the song together, and the finished track, a reggaeton-tinged minor-key ballad, seethes in sisterhood.
The album doesn't offer a narrative. Framed by two songs calling for hope -- "Mientras Me Cura del Cora" ("While My Heart Heals"), which is built on Bobby McFerrin's "Don't Worry, Be Happy" and "Mañana Será Bonito" -- the track list wanders amid hookups and kiss-offs, heedless excess and cautious infatuation. In "Cairo," she chides herself that the one-night stand she planned on has led to real affection: "I'm not in love but I'm almost there," she sings.
"That really happened!" she said. "I was really, like, I'm not going to get in love again. I'm not going to try to build my personal life with anybody. But life just brought somebody to my life that is like making me feel happy again, so that I wanted to share moments with somebody else again."
"That was a new thing that I learned with this album," she continued. "I was going to be really mad about love and everything. And at the end of the album, now I'm feeling it again. I used to hate it and now I'm loving it again. So let's be open to that."
Photograph "I have music from everywhere that I really love," Karol G, above, said ahead of the release of a new album. Left, the singer performed near Chicago in September. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JINGYU LIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ROB GRABOWSKI/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page AR13.

Subject: Rap music; Duets; Collaboration; Musicians & conductors; Reggaeton music; Singers; Musical performances

Location: Colombia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/14/arts/music/karol-g-manana-sera-bonito.html

Title: Good Riddance Gives Way to Love:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 19, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777801992

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/good-riddance-gives-way-love/docview/2777801992/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How to Score a Vintage Handbag: [Style Desk]

Author: Meltzer, Marisa

Publication info: Meltzer, Marisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-score-vintage-handbag/docview/2776904109/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What's a good deal? Where should you look?
The ubiquity of certain "it" handbags on social media can create a feeling of snow blindness when you're scrolling online. If you want to break out of that trend cycle, the solution is obvious: Get a vintage bag.
This is a wild and exciting world to dive into! It's also overwhelming. Allow me to talk you through it. You'll want to take your time, familiarize yourself with sellers' authentication guarantees, do research on serial numbers, get a lay of the land on competitive pricing and learn to understand the subtleties of how sellers describe the conditions of their goods. Sounds exhausting but trust me, it's worth it.
You should know things like what Prada calls its nylon (tessuto) and the name of Bottega Veneta's woven leather (intrecciato). Never hesitate to ask questions or request more photos -- advice that also applies to life in general.
For our purposes, we're using a loose definition of vintage: at least a decade old. There are many, many, many strategies for shopping for vintage bags. One way is to frequent vintage shops that carry a lot of bags. Check out What Goes Around Comes Around in New York and Beverly Hills, Calif., or Dina C's Fab & Funky Consignment Boutique in Palm Beach, Fla. (a.k.a., destination shopping heaven). Browse by designer at a resale site like ReBag or Fashionphile. Visit super-specific destinations like ClosetfullofCoco on Instagram, which sells Chanel exclusively -- and almost all of it bags.
If you need something to do after eating lunch and before returning to work, browsing Christie's Collection of André Leon Talley is a solid use of your time. Mr. Talley was not just a fashion historian and writer but a real shopper. While few can attend the live auction on Feb. 15, and fewer can place a winning bid on a beige ponyhair Chanel bag or a black Ralph Lauren alligator duffel, looking at the collection can inspire your own vintage bag rabbit hole.
Satin is one of my favorite materials for bags, especially small evening bags with drawstrings or fringe. Renaud Pellegrino's bright pink satin bag would be ideal for a night at the ballet, maybe. Also, look for materials that were often used in past decades, like tortoiseshell, resin or Bakelite.
Or you might try looking for earlier pieces from your favorite labels. Search for Kate Spade from the early aughts when some of the bags were made in Italy. You can find wonderful Tom Ford-era Gucci or Yves Saint Laurent bags. Ditto Louis Vuitton bags in Epi leather, a Vuitton-specific creation that's textured with tiny wavy ridges.
Another way to search is by looking for bag shapes that were all the rage before your time. I like to search for frame bags or top handle bags; the Céline clasp bag from just a few years ago is a favorite. For a treat, try minaudières, a whole world unto itself. Maybe a Judith Leiber egg?
Important note! You won't look costume-y if you wear any of these with normal clothes. But looking like you're in costume isn't always a bad thing.
Roberta di Camerino
A friend of mine who designs accessories loves to search for Sharif bags from the 1980s and Susan Gail bags for their high quality leather. Another classic is Roberta di Camerino, an Italian brand whose heyday was in the midcentury and whose bags are known for trompe l'oeil and color-blocking. Once you see the bags, you can't unsee their influence in other designers' work -- Prada, Gucci. There are a lot of bags around at an array of prices. I prefer the velvet to the vinyl and would wear it with thin wale corduroy pants. 640 euros; about $ 700
Mark Cross
For a certain kind of fashion fixated person, the biggest revelation in "Rear Window" was the box bag Grace Kelly's character carried. There are vintage versions of the bag on 1stdibs.com, but Mark Cross continues to make a smaller version of the bag that Gerald Murphy, who ran Mark Cross, designed in 1954 for the film, called the Rear Window Day Case. (Mr. Murphy and his wife, Sara, were significant Lost Generation figures, legendary for their time in the South of France.) I find the interior mirror completely charming. Black is practical, but who needs practical? Go with the celadon. $ 3,590
Hermès
The Birkin and the Kelly bags are more or less household names, but Hermès has a deep bench of lesser known styles: Picotin, Chevreuse, Chaîne D'Ancre, Cordelière, Sandrine. "I think many overlook all of the wonderful styles Hermès had in the '60s," said Zabrina Estrada, who owns Etéreo Vintage in Brooklyn. "I love the Palonnier in a skin, and the Piano bag is also really chic." Her dream bag is the Mallette, which has a lockable compartment for jewelry. The Brooklyn Museum has one owned by Babe Paley that was donated by her social secretary! $ 13,000
Manolo Blahnik
I consider companies whose bags are less celebrated than other things they make a whole category of vintage. Bally fits in there, as does any bag from Cartier, Van Cleef & Arpels, Nina Ricci, Fortuny and Ferragamo. Kudos to whoever gets this gold and pink metallic polka-dot Manolo clutch worthy of Cher Horowitz, Carrie Bradshaw or other '90s protagonists. $ 487.50
Chanel
Vintage Chanel bags go in a lot of directions. You could get a wild piece from one of its collections, like an $ 84,000 shopping basket from 2014 made out of the house's signature chains. Take it to the farmers' market? But as with Hermès, the elegant move would be a piece from the 1960s, like a chocolate brown Ottoman bag with a lipstick red lining. Why does red lining make everything better? 1,800 euros; about $ 1,960
Louis Vuitton
Skip all the Louis Vuitton logos, unless you're buying a trunk. Instead, go for simple. Sumptuous. Mysterious but privileged. I'm talking about Sofia Coppola! But specifically, the Louis Vuitton Sofia Coppola SC Bag Leather PM. The navy blue is classic. In fact, everything about this bag is classic. I'd be happy with any color -- light brown, cherry red, oxblood -- and it's large enough to carry a laptop, wallet, tiny notepad for deep thoughts, a bag of Doritos. You know, the essentials. $ 2,005
Photograph This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Shopping; Handbags & purses

People: Coppola, Sofia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/14/style/shopping-vintage-bags.html

Title: How to Score a Vintage Handbag:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 16, 2023

column: Shop Monster

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2776904109

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-score-vintage-handbag/docview/2776904109/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Karol G’s Songs Conquered the World. On a New LP, She Reveals Herself.

Author: Pareles, Jon

Publication info: Pareles, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/karol-g-s-songs-conquered-world-on-new-lp-she/docview/2776803983/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Karol G, a global pop star from Colombia, said she wrote 60 songs, maybe more, for her new album, “Mañana Será Bonito” (“Tomorrow Will Be Beautiful”); eventually she winnowed them down to 17.
The first ones, she recalled in a video chat from Medellín, Colombia, were full of “anger, sadness, bad love, toxic relationships.” They reflected the fallout of her 2021 breakup with Puerto Rican rapper and singer Anuel AA, after the end of a romance they had made public with a 2019 duet, “Secreto,” that has since been streamed more than 1 billion times.
Karol G, 32, wrote about feeling betrayed, about temptations and doubts, about partying away the pain, about no-strings sex with an ex. But eventually, she found herself writing wary love songs and counting her blessings. Just a few weeks before the album’s Feb. 24 release, she was wondering if she had been too candid.
“I’m being really open with this album, and that gets me a little bit scared, because I’m not a perfect human,” she said from her office in her hometown, where she had just returned to meet her sister’s newborn.
Karol G, born Carolina Giraldo Navarro, was wearing an oversized white hoodie, one of 100 that she has decorated by hand for a limited-edition merch sale. Her hair, which has changed color for each album and tour cycle — with her fans attending concerts in matching wigs — was the bold red she unveiled in recent videos.
“The album is more Carolina than Karol G,” she said. “Personal things that I had inside me, I was just letting them go in my lyrics. People are going to know about a lot of my personal life with my songs. But I don’t want to have the songs inside me anymore, because I know people can heal a lot of things with music. Writing songs for me is a really good way to heal things that I can’t explain.”
She admitted to prerelease jitters. “Right now, I notice that artists are trying very hard to find a concept, to be very experimental,” she said. “I love that. And that’s a good way to do art. But the concept of this album is just me being me. I really didn’t want people to feel it was like very simple, or just normal. But then we put up the announcement of my album, and there’s already more than 80 million views on Instagram. Now I’m stressed because I think that expectations are very high.”
“Mañana Será Bonito” is primed to be a blockbuster in the wake of Karol G’s 2021 album, “KG0516.” That LP included her billion-streaming 2019 collaboration with Nicki Minaj, “Tusa,” and her self-mythologizing 2020 “Bichota,” a word Karol G coined to turn “bichote” — Puerto Rican slang for a drug kingpin — into a feminine noun for, as she says, “a boss bitch,” a sexy and powerful woman.
Her new slang caught on. “‘Bichota’ became a movement,” she said. “Las bichotas don’t cry, las bichotas work for themselves, las bichotas are big, las bichotas are strong, las bichotas can do everything. Everybody can have good songs, everybody can have a moment. But to have a movement, it’s a different thing to find. And I think it’s something that you don’t find if you’re looking for it.”
Karol G played the main stage of Coachella in 2022, pointedly including a medley of worldwide hits in Spanish from acts who had never performed at the festival, including Selena, Ricky Martin, Luis Fonsi, Daddy Yankee and Shakira. “It was special for me to say with my show, I’m here now and I feel really proud,” she said. “But I have to say that I’m here because of this music that opened those doors for us to be here.”
The core of Karol G’s music is the loping beat of reggaeton. But her songs replace the genre’s usual rapping with inviting pop melodies, delivered in her clear, teasing voice. Instead of reggaeton’s machismo, she offers cheerful, forthrightly sex-positive femininity.
With each album, Karol G has also reached beyond reggaeton to collaborate with an international array of guests — a sign of Latin pop’s ever-expanding, border-crossing possibilities. “Right now is a really special moment with Latin music,” she said, “because everybody in the world is like, ‘I don’t care if I know the words or not,’ but they connect with our sounds.”
Karol G grew up surrounded by music. Her father — who was her protector and manager in her early career — sang with a band and brought home all sorts of music: “Rock ’n’ roll, salsa, ballads, reggaeton, vallenatos, everything,” she recalled.
From an early age, she knew she wanted to sing. As a teenager, she auditioned unsuccessfully for the Colombian edition of the music reality competition “The X Factor,” but soon afterward signed to record with the Puerto Rican label Diamond Music — a contract her father bought her out of two years later. By 2012, she had grown so discouraged that she decided to give up on music and study marketing in New York City.
“My father stopped talking to me for three months,” she recalled. “He was like, ‘No, you can’t do that. You are throwing away seven years of our hard work. I know who you are. I know we can get it. It’s hard, but when we get it, it’s going to be bigger than the rest.’”
An advertisement for a music-business conference in Boston caught her eye as she was riding buses in New York. On an impulse, she attended, and it was a turning point. “I know I love music and I do this for passion,” she said. “But the teaching at that conference was how the music can be a really big business, and how you can work like that.”
She returned to Colombia, enrolled to study music at the University of Antioquia, released songs independently and performed at every opportunity, eventually singing duets with established reggaeton stars like Nicky Jam. Her 2017 debut album, “Unstoppable,” included duets with Bad Bunny and Quavo (from Migos), and it brought her a 2018 Latin Grammy Award as best new artist. Her popularity has only grown since then, stoked by lusty songs like “Mi Cama” (“My Bed”) and “Punto G” (“G-Spot”). In Latin America, she headlines stadiums.
Her constant collaborator has been Daniel Echavarría Oviedo, who records as Ovy on the Drums and has produced the vast majority of her songs. He tailors and refines reggaeton and other beats to suit her voice; he also strives to match her ambitions. “Karol’s mind is always going,” he said in a video chat from Los Angeles. “She always has an objective as to where the direction of the song should be, where the lyrics should go. She’s always thinking what’s the next move, the next step, the next accomplishment?”
On “Mañana Será Bonito,” Karol G worked with Finneas (Billie Eilish’s brother and collaborator), Jamaican dancehall singer Sean Paul, the Bronx-born bachata singer Romeo Santos, the Dominican dembowsero Angel Dior, and her forerunner as a Colombian superstar, Shakira. She also embraces an elder generation of reggaeton with “Gatúbela” (“Catwoman”), a racy duet with Maldy, a Puerto Rican rapper from the duo Plan B, which released its first album in 2002.
“I had never done anything with a woman before,” Maldy said in a phone interview via a translator. “But it was very natural. Being with a woman that brings that sensuality made the right combination for the song to have such an impact. She has the charisma to bring reggaeton to another genre. And international collaborations expand reggaeton, to maximize it culturally.”
Karol G insists that her hybrids and connections are a matter of instinct, not crossover marketing. “For me to go to different styles of music, different genres is not hard, because I have music from everywhere that I really love,” she said. “I’m trying to show the world more what I do, instead of just doing things to open that door. I want to do it with my real identity. If I feel in my mind that a song has that feeling I go that way: ‘This is a rock, this is a salsa, this is a corrido mexicano.’”
She had a hit with the Mexican-style waltz “200 Copas” (“200 Drinks”) from “KG0516,” in which she advises a friend to dump a terrible boyfriend and go out drinking. The new album has another one, “Gucci Los Paños,” (“Gucci Towels”) which furiously and profanely rejects an ex-boyfriend’s attempts to get back together. “If we’re going to do a really heartbroken song that needs to sound really angry, for me you have to use Mexican sounds,” she said.
Another of the album’s good-riddance songs is “TGQ,” the duet with Shakira — a pairing Karol G had long hoped for. They had sent each other songs in recent years, but none had seemed exactly right. Now, with Shakira singing openly about her own breakup, Karol G thought they might share another song in which she was “letting a lot of anger go.” When Shakira heard it, Karol G said, “She was, like ‘Oh my God, thank you. Those lyrics are perfectly the way I feel right now.’” They completed the song together, and the finished track, a reggaeton-tinged minor-key ballad, seethes in sisterhood.
The album doesn’t offer a narrative. Framed by two songs calling for hope — “Mientras Me Cura del Cora” (“While My Heart Heals”), which is built on Bobby McFerrin’s “Don’t Worry, Be Happy” and “Mañana Será Bonito” — the track list wanders amid hookups and kiss-offs, heedless excess and cautious infatuation. In “Cairo,” she chides herself that the one-night stand she planned on has led to real affection: “I’m not in love but I’m almost there,” she sings.
“That really happened!” she said. “I was really, like, I’m not going to get in love again. I’m not going to try to build my personal life with anybody. But life just brought somebody to my life that is like making me feel happy again, so that I wanted to share moments with somebody else again.”
“That was a new thing that I learned with this album,” she continued. “I was going to be really mad about love and everything. And at the end of the album, now I’m feeling it again. I used to hate it and now I’m loving it again. So let’s be open to that.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rap music; Collaboration; Musicians & conductors; Reggaeton music; Musical performances; Singers

Location: New York; United States--US; Colombia

People: Santos, Romeo

Identifier / keyword: Fans (Persons); Karol G (Singer); Mcferrin, Bobby; O'connell, Finneas; Sean Paul (Rapper); Anuel Aa (1992 ); Santos, Romeo; Quavo (Rapper); Bad Bunny (Singer); Eilish, Billie; Fonsi, Luis; Nicky Jam (Singer); Ayala Rodriguez, Ramon (Daddy Yankee); Pop And Rock Music; Martin, Ricky; Pareles, Jon; Minaj, Nicki; Oviedo (Spain); Generation Z; Migos (Music Group); Dating And Relationships; University Of Antioquia; Instagram Inc; Medellin (Colombia); Beauty (Concept); Latin Music; Color Labs Inc; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Latin Grammy Awards; Workplace Environment; Love (Emotion); Slang; Hispanic Americans; Alcohol Abuse; Coachella Valley Music And Arts Festival; Rap And Hip Hop; Assaults; Beverages; Bronx (Nyc); Grammy Awards; Los Angeles (Calif); Shakira; Latin America; International Relations; Colombia; Gucci; Advertising And Marketing; Fashion And Apparel; Puerto Rico; Sex; Happiness; Mexico; Music; New York City; Art; Entertainment

Title: Karol G’s Songs Conquered the World. On a New LP, She Reveals Herself.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 15, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-15 @ 20:38

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2776803983

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/karol-g-s-songs-conquered-world-on-new-lp-she/docview/2776803983/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Guest Lists, Six-Figure Tables, Long Lines for the Bathroom: Welcome to the Super Bowl Party

Author: Bernstein, Joseph

Publication info: Bernstein, Joseph. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guest-lists-six-figure-tables-long-lines-bathroom/docview/2775472462/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — They called the party “Homecoming,” and for a certain kind of guest — most at home in VIP areas at fizzy nightspots — it was exactly that.
On the Friday night of Super Bowl LVII weekend, The h.wood Group, a Los Angeles hospitality company popular with celebrities, transformed a hangar at a private airport in Scottsdale into an elite Hollywood club.
It had all of the touches — an invite-only guest list, six-figure tables, famous people in the bathroom line, tasteful “brand activations” and the masses who weren’t on the list pleading for hours to get in — that would make veterans of the Hollywood party circuit feel right at home as they touched down into Arizona for the game.
The weekend is about football, kind of, and the halftime show and the ads, of course. But it has also become one of those tentpole festivals of vodka, contractual obligations and directed schmoozing, where the professional partyers of America do their job, which is to party.
And in the age of Instagram tags and co-brandings, an event such as this one is not just profitable on its own terms but is effectively a Super Bowl ad in its own right.
Other events of this class for the weekend included a Michelob Ultra and Netflix party, co-hosted by, among others, Serena Williams and Brian Cox. (Asked what his “Succession” character, Logan Roy, would say about such a branding exercise, Cox smiled and said, gnomically, “It does what does you good.”) There were also the long-running, no-media, invite-only party hosted by sportswear retailer Fanatics, with a guest list that included Jay-Z and Tiffany Haddish, and the mostly whispered about Commissioners Party, largely reserved for the league’s power elite.
At Homecoming, the crowd overflowed with the kind of celebrities who don’t exactly mind being seen.
Cher and producer Alexander Edwards, whom she is reportedly dating, took a seat near the stage. Alex Rodriguez and Jaleel White (yes, that’s Steve Urkel) hung out in an upstairs VIP area. Rapper Machine Gun Kelly and actress Megan Fox retreated to a booth, as did rapper Meek Mill. Keegan-Michael Key (one half of Key and Peele) obliged fan after fan with a selfie. Brittany Mahomes, wife of Kansas City’s starting quarterback, Patrick Mahomes, danced nearby. NFL stars — Derrick Henry, whose forearms are the size of steel bollards — and former ones — Johnny Manziel, once the sport-conquering “Mr. Football” but famous now mostly for his partying — stood shoulder-to-shoulder with excited engineers from Cash App, the payments company co-sponsoring the event.
Although the collection of the rich and famous at Homecoming was impressive, it could not claim the biggest name of the evening, Apple CEO Tim Cook, who showed up at a party thrown by GQ and Gucci on the other side of town.
“We wanted a big box to create our own world,” said John Terzian, co-founder of The h.wood Group, who counts Drake, Katy Perry and music executive Scooter Braun as friends. (Drake, who was the headlining musical act for the evening, shouted out one of Terzian’s restaurants, Delilah, in a 2019 song.)
Homecoming was a world filled with private tables, bars, more bars and neon. Guests could wander from the hanger out into several courtyards — one with Skee-Ball and Pop-A-Shot, and another with massage chairs and poker tables, giving the sense of a bar mitzvah for the 45-year-old who has everything.
Terzian’s original idea for the party had been for The h.wood Group clients (a term of art reserved for people who spend a lot of money at The h.wood Group clubs and restaurants) to fly their private jets — many of them from LA, of course — directly into the hanger, disembark and then party. That idea turned out to be logistically complicated, Terzian said. Still, he has come a long way since the early 2000s when he was a walk-on for USC’s football team, honing his skills throwing massive frat parties.
The room had its share of well-preserved white men with pushed-back white hair and Italian blazers. But the crowd was dominated by under-40s, who wore skintight dresses or hoodies by Aimé Leon Dore, Jacquemus and Rhude.
There were exceptions. Jeff Hamilton, founder of Guess Jeans and designer of sports-championship jackets for the likes of Michael Jordan and Shaquille O’Neal, wore a glossy leather bomber and a black turtleneck and flashed a set of blinding white teeth. He was there with Hughie Johnston, a former boxing champion who is now a conservative influencer and representative, he said, of British boxing champion Tyson Fury. Johnston and Hamilton were busy comparing Johnston’s business card, made up to look like an American Express Black card, to Hamilton’s actual black card.
“It’s very good,” Hamilton acknowledged. He was excited to see Drake, who wore one of Hamilton’s jackets at a recent show at the Apollo Theater in New York City.
A Brooklyn businessman, James Morrissey, posed with his wife, Aideen, in front of a neon-lit cactus. They had flown to the party because Morrissey owed some of his good luck in business — he launches liquors with celebrity partnerships — to The h.wood Group. Shortly before the 2019 Grammys, Morrissey was dining at the Nice Guy, The h.wood Group’s “Goodfellas”-themed restaurant in West Hollywood, when he was introduced to rapper Post Malone.
“Six days later, we were in a winery in France,” Morrissey said. And so, Malone’s rosé, Maison No. 9, was born.
There was a thin cloud trailing many of the guests, no matter how much Grey Goose they drank: work. It was perhaps most obvious among the influencers, who are technically always at work, and especially when they are out having fun.
In what was branded the Taco Bell Live Más area of the party, Tabitha Swatosh, a star on TikTok, was trying to figure out which photo of herself at Homecoming she should post to Instagram with a shoutout to Cash App, per the terms of her agreement with the payments company.
“It’s fun. No stress,” she said. “All my childhood dreams are coming true.”
Around 12:30 a.m., emissaries from Taco Bell spread out throughout the hanger, distributing the restaurant’s new “Big A** Mexican Pizza,” boxes of which flipped open to reveal damp discs of cheese and tomato.
“This is aggressive for a party where people are trying to look cute,” one guest said.
Soon the lights began to flicker, and the bass rose to flesh-quivering levels: signs that a Canadian Jewish rap superstar was soon to appear.
A few minutes after 1 a.m., Drake bounded up to the ring-shaped stage like a prizefighter, launching into an energetic medley of old hits, including “Started from the Bottom,” “Best I Ever Had” and “HYFR.”
As seemingly all of the 1,500 people inside the hangar raised their iPhones to tape the most famous man in the room, a three-deep crowd of hopefuls outside the front gate, spurred on by the music, redoubled their efforts to enter — mostly to no avail.
Earlier that evening, in the same place, a 23-year-old ticket reseller who called himself “Elo” prowled the crowd of hopefuls. He said he had scored four passes to the event by pretending to be comedian Chris Tucker’s agent. But now he was off to the next event — the Travis Scott show thrown by Rolling Stone at another venue in Scottsdale.
Finn McCarthy, 22, a college student who was in town to watch the Phoenix Open golf tournament, had heard about the party from a friend of a friend and had waited for two hours, “doing my thing,” before a bouncer gave him the bad news.
“Shut me down,” said McCarthy, who added that he was going home to get a few hours sleep before getting his partying started in earnest at the Phoenix Open the next day. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Football; Rap music; Restaurants; Celebrities; Airports; Murals

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Airports

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US; Arizona

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Canada; O'neal, Shaquille; Henry, Derrick; Fox, Megan; Kansas; Los Angeles (Calif); Mexico; France; National Football League; Netflix Inc; American Express Company; Rolling Stone; West Hollywood (Calif); New York City; Brittany (France); Fury, Tyson (1988 ); University Of Southern California; Cook, Timothy D; Gucci; Jacquemus (Fashion Label); Apple Inc; Los Angeles International Airport; Aime Leon Dore (Fashion Label); Manziel, Johnny; Hollywood (Calif); Tiktok (Bytedance); Instagram Inc; Scottsdale (Ariz); Taco Bell Corp; Scott, Travis (1992 ); Cox, Brian; Mahomes, Patrick (1995 ); Perry, Katy; Post, Austi n (Post Malone) (1995 ); Cher (1946 ); Drake (Rapper); Arizona; Jay Z; Braun, Scooter (1981 ); Key, Keegan Michael; Williams, Serena; Morrissey; Baker, Colson (Machine Gun Kelly); Meek Mill (Rapper); H Wood Group; White, Jaleel; Senses And Sensation; Furniture; Computers And The Internet; Credit Cards; Age, Chronological; Bars And Nightclubs; Parties (Social); Movies; Actors And Actresses; Athletics And Sports; Colleges And Universities; Restaurants; Wines; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Celebrities; Social Media; Music; Fashion And Apparel; Phoenix Open (Golf); Theater; Pop And Rock Music; Advertising And Marketing; Super Bowl; Football

Title: Guest Lists, Six-Figure Tables, Long Lines for the Bathroom: Welcome to the Super Bowl Party

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-12 @ 20:01

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775472462

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guest-lists-six-figure-tables-long-lines-bathroom/docview/2775472462/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Reminiscing About Clothes That Shaped Hip-Hop

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reminiscing-about-clothes-that-shaped-hip-hop/docview/2775416744/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — A proud crowd of hip-hop style pioneers gathered at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology on Tuesday night to toast the opening of a show that celebrates the history and evolution of hip-hop fashion. The exhibition, “Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: 50 Years of Hip Hop Style,” documents the fashion genre’s humble origins from its beginnings in the Bronx borough of New York City in the early 1970s to its crossover into the mainstream as a dominant and lucrative international force.
The guest list was filled with early streetwear designers, old-school rappers, graffiti artists and hip-hop historians. Visitors sipped Champagne while a DJ played retro hits like “Juicy” by The Notorious B.I.G. (The late rapper’s son, C.J. Wallace, was in attendance.) The mood was triumphant: No one disputes the Timberland boot’s enduring influence on street fashion, but it’s another thing entirely to see one trapped beneath a museum display case. Other pieces included an Adidas tracksuit, Lee jeans, Kangol caps and jackets tailored by Dapper Dan. When the Harlem haberdasher himself arrived at the event wearing a red blazer and hat, he could barely walk through the exhibition, getting accosted for selfies at every turn.
The show (which is accompanied by a Rizzoli Electa book) was curated by Elizabeth Way and Elena Romero. “Fashion is the original sixth element of hip-hop,” Romero said. “Aspirations become a reality through what we wear. From nameplates to chains, it’s a way of being seen, and wearing the right clothes is a way to announce yourself to the world.”
We asked attendees to name pieces — and coveted items dubbed grails — that they believe have contributed to hip-hop fashion history and to share who they think is carrying the torch for hip-hop style today.
Interviews were edited.
—
Dapper Dan
Q: What do you consider an important and historic hip-hop fashion grail?
A: Back in the day, you’d come to Dapper Dan, and the height of being accomplished was having the snorkel jacket. The snorkel is eternal. It showed that you had arrived at the top.
Q: Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today?
A: ASAP Rocky. He doesn’t even need to have another hit. He is the swaggiest.
—
April Walker
Q: What’s an iconic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The Carhartt jacket. It’s timeless and will still be timeless years from now. It’s work wear but it’s also fashion, function and fit. You can dress it up and dress it down. It tells a story beautifully.
Q: Thoughts on a significant hip-hop fashion crossover moment?
A: For me it’s a personal one: when Mike Tyson walked out into a fight wearing Walker Wear and my work as a designer suddenly graced a heavyweight boxing ring — he and I are both Brooklyn cats.
—
Misa Hylton
Q: What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion grail ?
A: The Louis Vuitton snorkel coat by Dapper Dan. It captures the aspirational epitome of hip-hop.
Q: Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today?
A: I love Teyana Taylor’s style because it’s tomboy-chic rooted in hip-hop. I like how she plays with gender and feminizes the masculine nature of hip-hop. I also like Flo Milli. She’s a beautiful chocolate queen who embraces femininity in new ways that pay homage to women in hip-hop who came before her.
—
Beau McCall
Q: What’s an iconic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The Timberland boot. Long before it became popular, my brother owned a pair, and no one even knew what they were. It was just a work boot. A couple years later, hip-hop grabbed onto the Timberland, and it became the ultimate fashion statement in the hood.
Q: Thoughts on a significant crossover moment?
A: Foxy Brown appeared in a Calvin Klein ad on the SoHo billboard in the 1990s. I went down to SoHo just to see that billboard. She was causing traffic.
—
Peter “Souleo” Wright
Q: Who do you consider a hip-hop style pioneer?
A: Queen Latifah’s Afrocentric style. It’s important because she was celebrating the African diaspora and our lineage and she helped bring that into hip-hop. That was new to me when I was a kid and it made me want to learn more about my history.
—
Sola Olosunde
Q: What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: It’s recent, but I’d say the dress that Young Thug wore on the cover of “Jeffery.” He defied gender norms in a space where gender norms are pretty enforced. There’s an idea of hyper-masculinity in hip-hop and wearing that dress and umbrella hat went against those norms.
Q: Anyone you’d like to shout out?
A: Doja Cat. She provokes conversation in what she wears. She makes herself into a spectacle. And that’s needed because rappers aren’t as out there anymore. They’re not as original as they used to be with their style.
—
C.J. Wallace
Q: Thoughts on a historic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The Versace shades that my dad used to wear. It’s just an iconic piece. It came to symbolize hip-hop for me when I was growing up as a kid.
Q: Do you have a shout out?
A: Sober Yung Walter. He’s always pushing it. He’s the coolest guy pushing the boundaries right now.
—
Kid Freeze
Q: W hat do you think is an iconic hip-hop fashion piece?
A: The nameplate. When you went into clubs with one, people saw it. You were going as yourself. It was a way of putting significance on your own name. Showing who you are.
Q: Thoughts on a significant crossover moment?
A: When the Dynamic Rockers battled the Rock Steady Crew. It was the first big break dancing battle and it happened in the early 1980s at Lincoln Center. I was in the Dynamic Rockers.
—
General Steele
Q: Thoughts on a hip-hop style grail?
A: I’m biased, but for me, it would be the Helly Hansen I wore in the Smif-N-Wessun music video for “Wrekonize.” We shot it in my neighborhood of Brownsville in Brooklyn and all I can think of is the little kids who were so excited to see me wearing it. The fashion was electrifying, fabulous and aspirational to them.
Q: What about a significant crossover moment?
A: For me, that would be the success of Slick Rick. He gave us the format of what to wear, from Gucci to Polo cologne. He was giving us game early. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile shows; Rap music; World music; Museum exhibits; Hip hop music; Museums; Gender

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology; NAICS: 712110

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Carolina Herrera Ltd; Lincoln Center For The Performing Arts; Calvin Klein Inc; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Tyson, Mike; Adidas Ag; Rock Steady Crew; Louis Vuitton; Gucci; Taylor, Teyana (1990 ); Brownsville (Brooklyn, Ny); Brooklyn (Nyc); Bronx (Nyc); Fashion Institute Of Technology; Soho (Manhattan, Ny); Hylton, Misa; Carhartt Inc; Queen Latifah; Williams, Jeffery Lamar (Young Thug); Wallace, Christopher G; Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Versace, Gianni, Spa; Day, Daniel (Dapper Dan); Dlamini, Amala Zandile (Doja Cat); Cj (Rapper); Flo Milli (Rapper); Asap Rocky; Walters, Ricky (1965 ); Fast Life Yungstaz; Romero, Elena (Journalist); Culture (Arts); Funerals And Memorials; Snorkeling; Dresses; Men And Boys; Coats And Jackets; Shoes And Boots; Gender; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Music; Art; Brooklyn, Ny, Subway Shooting (April 12, 2022); Museums; Outdoor Advertising; Black People; Rap And Hip Hop

Title: Reminiscing About Clothes That Shaped Hip-Hop

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-12 @ 16:47

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775416744

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reminiscing-about-clothes-that-shaped-hip-hop/docview/2775416744/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harry Styles Ate Here. Fans Flock.: [Style Desk]

Author: Creeden, Molly

Publication info: Creeden, Molly. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-fans-flock/docview/2775347534/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At 9:30 a.m. on a Thursday, the Harrys began to arrive at Beachwood Cafe. Young women with neon hair extensions, colorful crocheted cardigans and shirts illustrated with cherries, sunflowers and the word "Pleasing" piled out of rental cars and Ubers. They were trailed by their mothers and filming on their phones. By 10:30, the mom-and pop eatery, which has been around since the 1970s in the heart of Beachwood Canyon, Los Angeles, had a 30-minute wait, and a swarm of teenage girls taking photos in front of its blue door.
Who are the Harrys? They are Harry Styles superfans, and hordes of them have been making the pilgrimage to Beachwood Cafe, a cheerful spot with an all-day menu off a small village square, since December 2019. That's when the superstar briefly name-checked the restaurant in the song "Falling": "And the coffee's out at the Beachwood Cafe," he sang. That one line -- which Styles-olgoists believe to be about his ex Camille Rowe, a former Beachwood Canyon resident -- sent a bat signal.
"I just felt like coming here would complete the whole Harry Styles experience," said Caysey Gossweiler, 27, who traveled from Maryland to attend one of the three concerts that Mr. Styles would perform at the Kia Forum that weekend in late January.
"It's panic-inducing; I could literally evaporate thinking about it," said Noelle Jay, 26, of being in the same space where Mr. Styles once ate eggs. "He's like a god," added her cousin Mia Tucci, 17, whose hair was a shade of Kelly green. "He's like my comfort person, my light, my inspiration, all of the above," Ms. Jay replied.
Nearby, Nathan Freeman, 26, and his wife, Shannon Freeman, 25, were taking photos of Taylor Anderson and Alyson Johnston -- 20-year-old college students from Oregon they had just met. "It was like -- where should we go for breakfast? Harry told us where to go!" Mr. Freeman said gleefully.
The couple, who wore matching crop top and bell bottom ensembles to attend the concert at the Forum, had spent the previous day at Sycamore Cove Beach in Malibu, where fans say Mr. Styles filmed the videos for "Watermelon Sugar" and the One Direction song "What Makes You Beautiful."
"She ran and screamed and fan-girled," Mr. Freeman said, describing his wife's behavior upon arriving at the beach. "I was like, ah!" he shrieked. "I love this for you!"
Ms. Freeman said she admired Mr. Styles for his kindness. "I've never seen a scandal from him ever -- which is amazing."
Over avocado toast at a table inside, Ms. Anderson -- who made her family do a detour during an Amalfi Coast vacation to visit a street where Mr. Styles filmed parts of the "Golden" music video (she found the location by searching Google Maps for landmarks in the background of the behind-the-scenes video) -- offered her perspective on the fandom. "It's a family in a lot of ways," she said. "A good example of how the online world connects people."
Ms. Johnston finished watching a video on her phone of Mr. Styles doing Pilates, via the fan account Harry Florals, and added: "You can just kind of look at someone, and if they're our age and wearing clothes that resemble the Harry style it's like, OK, these are people you can talk to who are nice."
"The term is 'Harry coded,"' explained Xoee Margolis, 26, who was wearing neon orange Adidas Gazelles (inspired by ones Mr. Styles wears from the Gucci/Adidas collaboration). She held two new Beachwood Market totes in her hand, which she'd seen while browsing the cafe's merch section online from her home in New York City. "Wearing a little cherry is an ode to the 'Cherry' song, carrying around a Beachwood bag the shoes are Harry-coded -- it's a vibe."
"I made the mistake of not bringing in merch earlier," said the cafe's owner, Mike Fahim. But when he discovered eBay and Etsy accounts selling knockoff merchandise for his restaurant, he saw a business opportunity.
When Mr. Fahim took over the cafe in the fall of 2019, the crowd was a mix of locals, tourists headed to the nearby Hollywood sign, business lunches from film studios, and celebrities flying under the radar. In early 2020, the clientele started shifting to Gen Z girls and young women -- some of whom bring cardboard cutouts of Styles for photos -- and, in some cases, their parents.
Mr. Fahim, who had never heard of Harry Styles, embraced the affiliation.
Now, the tip jar says "Harry Tips Here." A sign depicted in a mural declares "The Coffee's Out," referring to the line in the song featuring Beachwood. And he and his staff are happy to take photos and answer fans' questions about what Mr. Styles is said to have eaten (the Beachwood Scramble), and where he sat (the table at the center of the room, and the booth in the far right corner). Someone on the staff monitors "the whole situation on Instagram and TikTok," Mr. Fahim said. If Mr. Styles is in town -- as he was for two weeks in the fall, when the cafe ran out of menu items and merchandise -- they double up on staff and supplies.
On the Saturday of Mr. Styles's concert run at the Forum, a line started forming outside of the cafe an hour before opening. It included Emma Szumowski, 21, from Massachusetts, who stood with her parents, Laura and Steve McMahon. The concert she'd gone to the previous evening was her sixth time seeing Mr. Styles. She had tickets for one more show in Los Angeles and two in Palm Springs that week.
"I get it, I'm a big Springsteen fan -- I started following him around in '84," said Mr. McMahon, 58, who, at his daughter's request, had gotten up early to be second in line.
The line snaked past the dry cleaners and into the square. At 8:40 a.m., Nicholas Braun, the actor who plays Cousin Greg on "Succession," joined it -- appearing slightly bewildered by the crowd -- and then left before he was seated.
Across the street, Jim Krantz, 67, and Brian Burchfield, 59, Beachwood Canyon residents, stood outside the Hollywoodland Realty building, taking in the scene.
"I mean, this was like 'Mayberry R.F.D.' -- but not anymore," said Mr. Krantz, sipping a mug of tea and referencing the 1968 spinoff of "The Andy Griffith Show" -- a sentence likely to draw a blank with the teenage girls filming their breakfast burritos across the street.
"I think it's fascinating, a social phenomenon," he added. "But it's a bit of an inconvenience when it comes to being able to do your daily life up here."
Wait times were between two and three hours throughout the weekend. At one point on Saturday, the diners inside the cafe broke out into a loud rendition of "Falling." Before the wave of Styles fans, Mr. Fahim typically served 300 guests from Friday to Sunday; he now serves 1,000 on average. The locals still come, but they often grumble about the wait times and lack of parking -- and if they see a line, they steer clear.
Most fans agreed that this was no longer a place where Mr. Styles was likely to set foot. This realization sometimes prompted fan conspiracy theories -- did he mention the cafe because he knew it would send fans flocking there, and it was too painful a place to return because of its romantic history there? But even if that were the case, "it's cool to envision him sitting in there being all sad and lonely," said Bryn Langrock, 23.
And if Mr. Styles did dine at Beachwood Cafe again, Mr. Fahim says he knows what he'd tell him: "Thank you."
Photograph Marley Williams of Claremore, Okla., and Noelle Jay of Chicago at Beachwood Cafe. (ST1); This article appeared in print on page Beachwood Cafe in Los Angeles, where Harry Styles once ordered eggs, is now a destination for his fans, thanks to a lyric, "And the coffee's out at the Beachwood Cafe." The twins Jennifer Sata Ayala and Jessica Sata Ayala, below, came from Guanajuato, Mexico, to see him in concert and visit the cafe. Some fans bring mini-Harrys. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCESCA FORQUET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST4) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST4.

Subject: Families & family life; Restaurants; Coffee

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Beachwood Canyon; Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/04/style/harry-styles-fans-beachwood-cafe.html

Title: Harry Styles Ate Here. Fans Flock.:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347534

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-fans-flock/docview/2775347534/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Vivid Reflections on 50 Years of Hip-Hop Style: [Style Desk]

Author: Vadukul, Alex

Publication info: Vadukul, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vivid-reflections-on-50-years-hip-hop-style/docview/2775347513/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A proud crowd of hip-hop style pioneers gathered at the Museum at F.I.T. on Tuesday night to toast the opening of a show that celebrates the history and evolution of hip-hop fashion. The exhibition, "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: 50 Years of Hip Hop Style," documents the fashion genre's humble origins from its beginnings in the Bronx in the early 1970s to its crossover into the mainstream as a dominant and lucrative international force.
The guest list was filled with early streetwear designers, old-school rappers, graffiti artists and hip-hop historians. Visitors sipped champagne while a DJ played retro hits like "Juicy" by The Notorious B.I.G. (The late rapper's son, C.J. Wallace, was in attendance.) The mood was triumphant: No one disputes the Timberland boot's enduring influence on street fashion, but it's another thing entirely to see one trapped beneath a museum display case. Other pieces included an Adidas tracksuit, Lee jeans, Kangol caps and jackets tailored by Dapper Dan. When the Harlem haberdasher himself arrived at the event wearing a red blazer and hat, he could barely walk through the exhibition, getting accosted for selfies at every turn.
The show (which is accompanied by a Rizzoli Electa book) was curated by Elizabeth Way and Elena Romero. "Fashion is the original sixth element of hip-hop," Ms. Romero said. "Aspirations become a reality through what we wear. From nameplates to chains, it's a way of being seen, and wearing the right clothes is a way to announce yourself to the world."
We asked attendees to name pieces -- and coveted items dubbed grails -- that they believe have contributed to hip-hop fashion history and to share who they think is carrying the torch for hip-hop style today.
Interviews were edited.
Dapper Dan
What do you consider an important and historic hip-hop fashion grail? Back in the day, you'd come to Dapper Dan, and the height of being accomplished was having the snorkel jacket. The snorkel is eternal. It showed that you had arrived at the top.
Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today? ASAP Rocky. He doesn't even need to have another hit. He is the swaggiest.
April Walker
What's an iconic hip-hop fashion piece? The Carhartt jacket. It's timeless and will still be timeless years from now. It's work wear but it's also fashion, function and fit. You can dress it up and dress it down. It tells a story beautifully.
Thoughts on a significant hip-hop fashion crossover moment? For me it's a personal one: when Mike Tyson walked out into a fight wearing Walker Wear and my work as a designer suddenly graced a heavyweight boxing ring -- he and I are both Brooklyn cats.
Misa Hylton
What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion grail? The Louis Vuitton snorkel coat by Dapper Dan. It captures the aspirational epitome of hip-hop.
Who is carrying the torch for hip-hop fashion today? I love Teyana Taylor's style because it's tomboy-chic rooted in hip-hop. I like how she plays with gender and feminizes the masculine nature of hip-hop. I also like Flo Milli. She's a beautiful chocolate queen who embraces femininity in new ways that pay homage to women in hip-hop who came before her.
Beau McCall
What's an iconic hip-hop fashion piece? The Timberland boot. Long before it became popular, my brother owned a pair, and no one even knew what they were. It was just a work boot. A couple years later, hip-hop grabbed onto the Timberland, and it became the ultimate fashion statement in the hood.
Thoughts on a significant crossover moment? Foxy Brown appeared in a Calvin Klein ad on the SoHo billboard in the 1990s. I went down to SoHo just to see that billboard. She was causing traffic.
Peter "Souleo" Wright
Who do you consider a hip-hop style pioneer? Queen Latifah's Afrocentric style. It's important because she was celebrating the African diaspora and our lineage and she helped bring that into hip-hop. That was new to me when I was a kid and it made me want to learn more about my history.
Sola Olosunde
What do you consider a historic hip-hop fashion piece? It's recent, but I'd say the dress that Young Thug wore on the cover of "Jeffery." He defied gender norms in a space where gender norms are pretty enforced. There's an idea of hyper-masculinity in hip-hop and wearing that dress and umbrella hat went against those norms.
Anyone you'd like to shout out? Doja Cat. She provokes conversation in what she wears. She makes herself into a spectacle. And that's needed because rappers aren't as out there anymore. They're not as original as they used to be with their style.
C.J. Wallace
Thoughts on a historic hip-hop fashion piece? The Versace shades that my dad used to wear. It's just an iconic piece. It came to symbolize hip-hop for me when I was growing up as a kid.
Do you have a shout out? Sober Yung Walter. He's always pushing it. He's the coolest guy pushing the boundaries right now.
Kid Freeze
What do you think is an iconic hip-hop fashion piece? The nameplate. When you went into clubs with one, people saw it. You were going as yourself. It was a way of putting significance on your own name. Showing who you are.
Thoughts on a significant crossover moment? When the Dynamic Rockers battled the Rock Steady Crew. It was the first big break dancing battle and it happened in the early 1980s at Lincoln Center. I was in the Dynamic Rockers.
General Steele
Thoughts on a hip-hop style grail? I'm biased, but for me, it would be the Helly Hansen I wore in the Smif-N-Wessun music video for "Wrekonize." We shot it in my neighborhood of Brownsville in Brooklyn and all I can think of is the little kids who were so excited to see me wearing it. The fashion was electrifying, fabulous and aspirational to them.
What about a significant crossover moment? For me, that would be the success of Slick Rick. He gave us the format of what to wear, from Gucci to Polo cologne. He was giving us game early.
Photograph Souleo, center, and Marisol Deluna at the opening of the show "Fresh, Fly, and Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip-Hop Style" on Tuesday at the Museum at F.I.T. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTA SCHLUETER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Automobile shows; Rap music; World music; Hip hop music; Museums; Gender

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/09/style/hip-hop-style-history-fashion-institute-technology.html

Title: Vivid Reflections on 50 Years of Hip-Hop Style:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347513

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vivid-reflections-on-50-years-hip-hop-style/docview/2775347513/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50: [Correction]

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2776885329/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A museum exhibition and book kick off the anniversary of a genre incubated in the Bronx and exported to the world.
"Everything is a flashback," Syreeta Gates said last week. "That's the way it always is with our culture. Black folks are going to see what's out there, take it and remix it for themselves and transform it into something else."
Ms. Gates, the archivist and founder of the Gates Preserve, a core source of historical material from the 50-year evolution of hip-hop, was referring to an art form "created, maintained and valued by nonwhite poor folks." She was also talking about hip-hop style.
That the genre and its look are indivisibly linked was never clearer than during last Sunday's Grammys, when a 15-minute musical medley brought together a panoply of hip-hop artists, styles, eras and regional variations, with performers as disparate as LL Cool J, Rakim, Queen Latifah and Lil Baby crowding the Crypto.com Arena stage.
It was a dizzying convergence, musically and visually. And it was one that served, in a sense, as a portal to a yearlong celebration of a genre whose true origins are traceable to a back-to-school party in the rec room of a Bronx apartment building in 1973. Decades afterward, the rap scholar Tricia Rose would note in "Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America" how skeptical the mainstream initially was to music most thought was a fad. That is, until the indie producer Sylvia Robinson released the hit song "Rapper's Delight" in 1979.
Over the next five years rap was "discovered" and then ever afterward embraced by a variety of industries, none more enthusiastically than fashion, which mined, adapted and appropriated hip-hop style until, eventually, conceding to it commercial primacy. It is no secret that hardly a designer working today has not at some point dipped into the slipstream of hip-hop for inspiration.
And the unstated goal of "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip Hop Style," an exhibition that opened this week at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology (accompanied by a book from Rizzoli Electa), is to track the transformation of an art form born, as the curators Elena Romero and Elizabeth Way wrote, "of the segregation and oppression of communities of color within American urban centers" to its current status as a multibillion-dollar industry and the cultural powerhouse the Grammys put on display.
It is also giving credit where it is long overdue. "The mainstream didn't acknowledge hip-hop until the likes of Isaac Mizrahi and Karl Lagerfeld for Chanel showed collections inspired by hip-hop on their runways," Ms. Romero wrote in an email.
While designers like Tommy Hilfiger were quick to make connections to hip-hop with product placement on performers like Snoop Dogg in a 1994 performance on "Saturday Night Live," and brands like Cross Colours, Karl Kani, Walker Wear, Maurice Malone, Mecca USA and FUBU did somehow penetrate the mainstream, the establishment, Ms. Romero said, "frowned down upon" hip-hop, and for two primary reasons -- "who did the designing and who the intended customers were."
That trend has largely flipped, of course. Multinationals aggressively court fans of the genre, filling ad campaigns and their front rows with rap stars (if seldom staffing design studios with people of color).
Academe has also gotten in on the act, with Harvard and Cornell building archives dedicated to the complex and layered history of the genre. And in 2014, as Ms. Way noted, the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History added the rapper and producer Slick Rick's (Richard Martin Lloyd Walters) birth certificate to its collection, along with a microphone belonging to the incandescent rapper Rakim (né William Michael Griffin Jr.).
In 2018, Kendrick Lamar became the first rapper to win the Pulitzer Prize. And last year ground was broken for a mixed-use development in the Bronx that encompasses the Universal Hip Hop Museum, all of it set to open in 2024.
Yet, even a half century into hip-hop history, there is a sense that in historiographic terms we are at the beginning. "There are so many unsung heroes," Ms. Romero said. Even among lauded progenitors of hip-hop style -- storied designers like Daniel R. Day, whose Dapper Dan collaborations with Gucci brought him global renown -- there is an inexhaustible trove of histories yet to tap and discoveries to make.
Last week Mr. Day said that when he was a boy, it was still commonplace for "us poor kids" to swim in the Harlem River, diving from a dock on the Manhattan side of the flow and then paddling to a nearby sandbank.
"We always threw in a stick from a Popsicle to pay attention to which way the current was moving," said Mr. Day, whose innovative designs fused natty tailoring with home-printed bootleg logo fabrics that copied those manufactured by luxury labels like Fendi, Gucci and Louis Vuitton. "And that was my same philosophy of fashion: Follow the flow."
Before being driven underground by anti-counterfeit squads, Mr. Day sold his designs to Harlem high rollers from a Harlem storefront. Many of his best customers happened to be gangsters. And some, like the drug kingpin James Jackson, while notoriously feared for their for brutality, were widely emulated for their style.
"All that gold and diamonds people associate with the rappers, all the O.G. stuff, it's a holdover from people like Jackson," Mr. Day said. "He always had the flyest furs, the flyest cars, the flyest jewelry. He was the first one to come in with Louis Vuitton."
Alas, there is relatively little bling in the F.I.T. show, and so perhaps some other costume institution will one day mount a flashy display of massive gold dookie chains and gem-studded brass knuckle rings from Jacob Arabo, a.k.a. Jacob the Jeweler, or else glittering multimillion-dollar Lorraine Schwartz danglers like those that Beyoncé wore for her recent performance in Dubai. Or even the wild dental grills created by the Vietnamese American jeweler Johnny Dang.
What the show's curators assembled instead, from 50 private lenders, is a relatively low key, although no less affecting, display of designs representative of styles created, adapted or innovated among small groups that tended to find one another almost exclusively through word of mouth. "There would be this one party that five people were talking about all week," said Ms. Gates, who grew up in St. Albans, Queens, another neighborhood where rap was incubated in its early days. "OK, maybe there was a flyer -- maybe."
There are Dapper Dan jackets with insets of MCM fabric, Cross Colours knit caps, Kangol bucket hats like those LL Cool J made famous. From Ralph Lauren's fall 1998 collection there are ski parkas that were once called suicide jackets because, as Ms. Way explained, "if you wore one, you were sure to get robbed."
There are Lee jeans with the creases sewn in, monogram belt buckles of the sort sold at Times Square novelty shops. There are Afrocentric kufi-style hats of kente cloth like those Salt-N-Pepa wore on tour (with customized varsity jackets, ankle boots and tights). There are shearling coats and shell-toe Adidas, like those worn by Run DMC, and a case filled with the highly coveted record label lanyards that guaranteed backstage access when rap shows were still held in arenas and armories.
There are clothes that look generic to the point of insignificance unless, as Monica Lynch, the former head of Tommy Boy Records, explained by phone, "you understood the subtleties."
The "color story" of the early 1980s, for instance, was burgundy, said Ms. Lynch, who consults these days with Sotheby's on auctions of the hip-hop memorabilia that is increasingly sought by collectors. "Then gray was really big. It was simple things. The Lee jeans were perfectly pressed. The sneakers had to be the right sneakers. People were perfectly turned out on no money at all. They shopped at outdoor circular racks on Fordham Road to get things for $ 19 bucks."
They shopped at a place that called itself the "cheapest sneaker store in America," an all-but-unimaginable concept in an era of astronomically expensive collector kicks.
"They shopped at the Albee Square Mall in Brooklyn or the Coliseum Mall in Queens or on 125th Street," Ms. Lynch said. "It wasn't the money. It was what they could do with it."
Clothes tell stories, and the narrative composed in "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous," as Ms. Gates remarked, is one built on the sort of accounts history too often overlooks. "There's this patchwork quilt culture being created by a group of Black and brown young people with few options and fewer resources," all making their dash for a version of the American dream.
For the photographer and hip-hop chronicler Jamel Shabazz, those early days were jubilant times. "We would gather up on a Saturday afternoon, the D.J.s would come out and hook equipment up to a lamp post," he said. "Yes, the city was turbulent. And, yes, we still had a problem with heroin. But there weren't guns yet, and people would go to the barbershop, go to Delancey Street for the flyest gear and then come together for a feel-good time dressed in their very best."
Photograph Dressed to turn heads with hip-hop style on the Lower East Side in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMEL SHABAZZ) (D1); Top row, from left: Kool K and Lee Rock in 2019; a personalized belt buckle; and the group Salt-N-Pepa, known for being committed hip-hop style maximalists. Second row, from left: Timberland boots; Air Jordan shoes; tracksuits, Lee jeans with the crease ironed (or sewn) in, and discount shearlings bought on Delancey Street; and door knocker earrings. Bottom row, from left: April Walker custom jacket, custom jeans and leather pendant and "Black Bart" T-shirt; LL Cool J in 1986; Gucci bag; and Kangol hat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMEL SHABAZZ; EILEEN COSTA/THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Archives & records; Rap music; Design; Genre; Hip hop music; Hip hop culture; Designers; Luxuries; Museum exhibits; Brands; American culture

Business indexing term: Subject: Brands

Location: United States--US

People: LL Cool J (James Todd Smith)

Title: Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 9, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2776885329

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2776885329/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The First Lady Was Polished to Shine: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-lady-was-polished-shine/docview/2774386322/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In silver Oscar de la Renta, the first lady hit the high notes.
Jill Biden got the dress code memo.
As the first lady walked onstage at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles toward the end of the 65th Grammy Awards -- one of the few first ladies in modern memory to present at the show -- she did so wearing an off-the-shoulder silver column gown made to sparkle all the way to the nosebleed seats, shining like the gleam of Lizzo's smile.
Actually, shining just like the ruched silver minidress Lizzo herself was wearing (after she changed out of her orange Dolce & Gabbana rose cloak). Not to mention the tinsel-spangled silver Gucci jumpsuit Harry Styles wore to perform his number. Or the silver of Beyoncé's ruffled Gucci corset gown -- the one she wore when she made history as the winningest artist at the Grammys, before she changed into black Schiaparelli and, later, velvet Balmain.
Even though Dr. Biden's dress was by Oscar de la Renta, one of the first lady's go-to designers, and simply a more eye-catching version of the de la Renta navy lace column she had worn to the state dinner in December (the one with hand-embroidered cutouts), it was an unusual choice, given that she generally hews more to the floral and the understated.
But it was also a clever one -- like the decision to be part of the Grammys. Michelle Obama appeared, in 2019, but her husband had left office by then; Hillary Clinton won, in 1997, for best spoken word or nonmusical album.
After all, if you are the soft-power face of an administration whose much-discussed Achilles' heel is the age of its leader; if you are the partner of a president contemplating running again who was already the oldest person ever to assume the office; if the goal is to get out of establishment Washington and be seen in a different, more ... energetic context, the Grammys is not a bad way to do it.
Especially a Grammys powered by the combined attention of the BeyHive, Swifties and Harries. Especially one recognizing the legacy of 50 years of hip-hop.
Especially one in which Dr. Biden was handing out the first Grammy in the category of song for social change, given to Shervin Hajipour, a young Iranian whose song "Baraye" has become an anthem for the women's rights protests and a way for those around the world to demonstrate solidarity. (Haider Ackermann used it in his recent couture show for Jean Paul Gaultier.)
The first lady also gave Bonnie Raitt her surprise Grammy for song of the year, but it was the award to Mr. Hajipour, currently in Iran awaiting trial and charged with disseminating propaganda against the regime and inciting violence, that made the political point. Albeit one couched in the glitz and circumstance of an awards telecast.
If an administration wanted to underscore exactly what side it was on, that was a pretty slick way to do so.
The first lady knew the constituency she was speaking to, and she fit right in. How often do Dr. Biden and Machine Gun Kelly (in a reflective silver foil Dolce & Gabbana suit) look as if they are in the same universe? Being part of the most dominant fashion trend of the night is a very specific form of outreach, the planting of a visual earwig.
It's like the yin to President Biden's upcoming State of the Union yang; the pop culture version of the political theater scheduled to take place Tuesday, a mere two days after the Grammys, back in D.C. When it comes to curtain-raisers, you don't get much better than that. And all the silver meant it was impossible to miss.
Photograph Jill Biden, left, in Oscar de la Renta at the Grammys, reflecting a silver trend embraced by, clockwise from top, Lizzo, Machine Gun Kelly and Harry Styles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES KEVIN MAZUR/GETTY IMAGES; KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES FOR THE RECORDING ACADEMY; VALERIE MACON/AGENCE FRANCEPRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES KEVIN MAZUR/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: First ladies; State of the Union Address

People: De la Renta, Oscar; Biden, Jill; Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Dolce & Gabbana; NAICS: 315250, 325620, 541490

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/06/style/jill-biden-grammys.html

Title: The First Lady Was Polished to Shine:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 9, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774386322

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-lady-was-polished-shine/docview/2774386322/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50: [Correction]

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774386319/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A museum exhibition and book kick off the anniversary of a genre incubated in the Bronx and exported to the world.
"Everything is a flashback," Syreeta Gates said last week. "That's the way it always is with our culture. Black folks are going to see what's out there, take it and remix it for themselves and transform it into something else."
Ms. Gates, the archivist and founder of the Gates Preserve, a core source of historical material from the 50-year evolution of hip-hop, was referring to an art form "created, maintained and valued by nonwhite poor folks." She was also talking about hip-hop style.
That the genre and its look are indivisibly linked was never clearer than during last Sunday's Grammys, when a 15-minute musical medley brought together a panoply of hip-hop artists, styles, eras and regional variations, with performers as disparate as LL Cool J, Rakim, Queen Latifah and Lil Baby crowding the Crypto.com Arena stage.
It was a dizzying convergence, musically and visually. And it was one that served, in a sense, as a portal to a yearlong celebration of a genre whose true origins are traceable to a birthday party in the Bronx projects in 1973. Decades afterward, the rap scholar Tricia Rose would note in "Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America" how skeptical the mainstream initially was to music most thought was a fad. That is, until the indie producer Sylvia Robinson released the hit song "Rapper's Delight" in 1979.
Over the next five years rap was "discovered" and then ever afterward embraced by a variety of industries, none more enthusiastically than fashion, which mined, adapted and appropriated hip-hop style until, eventually, conceding to it commercial primacy. It is no secret that hardly a designer working today has not at some point dipped into the slipstream of hip-hop for inspiration.
And the unstated goal of "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip Hop Style," an exhibition that opened this week at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology (accompanied by a book from Rizzoli Electa), is to track the transformation of an art form born, as the curators Elena Romero and Elizabeth Way wrote, "of the segregation and oppression of communities of color within American urban centers" to its current status as a multibillion-dollar industry and the cultural powerhouse the Grammys put on display.
It is also giving credit where it is long overdue. "The mainstream didn't acknowledge hip-hop until the likes of Isaac Mizrahi and Karl Lagerfeld for Chanel showed collections inspired by hip-hop on their runways," Ms. Romero wrote in an email.
While designers like Tommy Hilfiger were quick to make connections to hip-hop with product placement on performers like Snoop Dogg in a 1994 performance on "Saturday Night Live," and brands like Cross Colours, Karl Kani, Walker Wear, Maurice Malone, Mecca USA and FUBU did somehow penetrate the mainstream, the establishment, Ms. Romero said, "frowned down upon" hip-hop, and for two primary reasons -- "who did the designing and who the intended customers were."
That trend has largely flipped, of course. Multinationals aggressively court fans of the genre, filling ad campaigns and their front rows with rap stars (if seldom staffing design studios with people of color).
Academe has also gotten in on the act, with Harvard and Cornell building archives dedicated to the complex and layered history of the genre. And in 2014, as Ms. Way noted, the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History added the rapper and producer Slick Rick's (Richard Martin Lloyd Walters) birth certificate to its collection, along with a microphone belonging to the incandescent rapper Rakim (né William Michael Griffin Jr.).
In 2018, Kendrick Lamar became the first rapper to win the Pulitzer Prize. And last year ground was broken for a mixed-use development in the Bronx that encompasses the Universal Hip Hop Museum, all of it set to open in 2024.
Yet, even a half century into hip-hop history, there is a sense that in historiographic terms we are at the beginning. "There are so many unsung heroes," Ms. Romero said. Even among lauded progenitors of hip-hop style -- storied designers like Daniel R. Day, whose Dapper Dan collaborations with Gucci brought him global renown -- there is an inexhaustible trove of histories yet to tap and discoveries to make.
Last week Mr. Day said that when he was a boy, it was still commonplace for "us poor kids" to swim in the Harlem River, diving from a dock on the Manhattan side of the flow and then paddling to a nearby sandbank.
"We always threw in a stick from a Popsicle to pay attention to which way the current was moving," said Mr. Day, whose innovative designs fused natty tailoring with home-printed bootleg logo fabrics that copied those manufactured by luxury labels like Fendi, Gucci and Louis Vuitton. "And that was my same philosophy of fashion: Follow the flow."
Before being driven underground by anti-counterfeit squads, Mr. Day sold his designs to Harlem high rollers from a Harlem storefront. Many of his best customers happened to be gangsters. And some, like the drug kingpin James Jackson, while notoriously feared for their for brutality, were widely emulated for their style.
"All that gold and diamonds people associate with the rappers, all the O.G. stuff, it's a holdover from people like Jackson," Mr. Day said. "He always had the flyest furs, the flyest cars, the flyest jewelry. He was the first one to come in with Louis Vuitton."
Alas, there is relatively little bling in the F.I.T. show, and so perhaps some other costume institution will one day mount a flashy display of massive gold dookie chains and gem-studded brass knuckle rings from Jacob Arabo, a.k.a. Jacob the Jeweler, or else glittering multimillion-dollar Lorraine Schwartz danglers like those that Beyoncé wore for her recent performance in Dubai. Or even the wild dental grills created by the Vietnamese American jeweler Johnny Dang.
What the show's curators assembled instead, from 50 private lenders, is a relatively low key, although no less affecting, display of designs representative of styles created, adapted or innovated among small groups that tended to find one another almost exclusively through word of mouth. "There would be this one party that five people were talking about all week," said Ms. Gates, who grew up in St. Albans, Queens, another neighborhood where rap was incubated in its early days. "OK, maybe there was a flyer -- maybe."
There are Dapper Dan jackets with insets of MCM fabric, Cross Colours knit caps, Kangol bucket hats like those LL Cool J made famous. From Ralph Lauren's fall 1998 collection there are ski parkas that were once called suicide jackets because, as Ms. Way explained, "if you wore one, you were sure to get robbed."
There are Lee jeans with the creases sewn in, monogram belt buckles of the sort sold at Times Square novelty shops. There are Afrocentric kufi-style hats of kente cloth like those Salt-N-Pepa wore on tour (with customized varsity jackets, ankle boots and tights). There are shearling coats and shell-toe Adidas, like those worn by Run DMC, and a case filled with the highly coveted record label lanyards that guaranteed backstage access when rap shows were still held in arenas and armories.
There are clothes that look generic to the point of insignificance unless, as Monica Lynch, the former head of Tommy Boy Records, explained by phone, "you understood the subtleties."
The "color story" of the early 1980s, for instance, was burgundy, said Ms. Lynch, who consults these days with Sotheby's on auctions of the hip-hop memorabilia that is increasingly sought by collectors. "Then gray was really big. It was simple things. The Lee jeans were perfectly pressed. The sneakers had to be the right sneakers. People were perfectly turned out on no money at all. They shopped at outdoor circular racks on Fordham Road to get things for $ 19 bucks."
They shopped at a place that called itself the "cheapest sneaker store in America," an all-but-unimaginable concept in an era of astronomically expensive collector kicks.
"They shopped at the Albee Square Mall in Brooklyn or the Coliseum Mall in Queens or on 125th Street," Ms. Lynch said. "It wasn't the money. It was what they could do with it."
Clothes tell stories, and the narrative composed in "Fresh, Fly, Fabulous," as Ms. Gates remarked, is one built on the sort of accounts history too often overlooks. "There's this patchwork quilt culture being created by a group of Black and brown young people with few options and fewer resources," all making their dash for a version of the American dream.
For the photographer and hip-hop chronicler Jamel Shabazz, those early days were jubilant times. "We would gather up on a Saturday afternoon, the D.J.s would come out and hook equipment up to a lamp post," he said. "Yes, the city was turbulent. And, yes, we still had a problem with heroin. But there weren't guns yet, and people would go to the barbershop, go to Delancey Street for the flyest gear and then come together for a feel-good time dressed in their very best."
Photograph Dressed to turn heads with hip-hop style on the Lower East Side in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMEL SHABAZZ) (D1); Top row, from left: Kool K and Lee Rock in 2019; a personalized belt buckle; and the group Salt-N-Pepa, known for being committed hip-hop style maximalists. Second row, from left: Timberland boots; Air Jordan shoes; tracksuits, Lee jeans with the crease ironed (or sewn) in, and discount shearlings bought on Delancey Street; and door knocker earrings. Bottom row, from left: April Walker custom jacket, custom jeans and leather pendant and "Black Bart" T-shirt; LL Cool J in 1986; Gucci bag; and Kangol hat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMEL SHABAZZ; EILEEN COSTA/THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; EILEEN COSTA/THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.; MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Archives & records; Rap music; Genre; Hip hop music; Hip hop culture; Music history

Location: United States--US; Bronx New York

Title: Hip-Hop Style: Still Fly at 50:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 9, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774386319

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-style-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774386319/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hip-Hop, Still Fly at 50

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774338004/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
“Everything is a flashback,” Syreeta Gates said last week. “That’s the way it always is with our culture. Black folks are going to see what’s out there, take it and remix it for themselves and transform it into something else.”
Gates, the archivist and founder of the Gates Preserve, a core source of historical material from the 50-year evolution of hip-hop, was referring to an art form “created, maintained and valued by nonwhite poor folks.” She was also talking about hip-hop style.
That the genre and its look are indivisibly linked was never clearer than during last Sunday’s Grammys, when a 15-minute musical medley brought together a panoply of hip-hop artists, styles, eras and regional variations, with performers as disparate as LL Cool J, Rakim, Queen Latifah and Lil Baby crowding the Crypto.com Arena stage.
It was a dizzying convergence, musically and visually. And it was one that served, in a sense, as a portal to a yearlong celebration of a genre whose true origins are traceable to a birthday party in the Bronx projects in 1973. Decades afterward, rap scholar Tricia Rose would note in “Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America” how skeptical the mainstream initially was to music most thought was a fad. That is, until producer Sylvia Robinson released the hit song “Rapper’s Delight” in 1979.
Over the next five years rap was “discovered’’ and then ever afterward embraced by a variety of industries, none more enthusiastically than fashion, which mined, adapted and appropriated hip-hop style until, eventually, conceding to it commercial primacy. It is no secret that hardly a designer working today has not at some point dipped into the slipstream of hip-hop for inspiration.
And the unstated goal of “Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years of Hip Hop Style,” an exhibition that opened this week at the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology (accompanied by a book from Rizzoli Electa), is to track the transformation of an art form born, as curators Elena Romero and Elizabeth Way wrote, “of the segregation and oppression of communities of color within American urban centers” to its current status as a multibillion-dollar industry and the cultural powerhouse the Grammys put on display.
It is also giving credit where it is long overdue. “The mainstream didn’t acknowledge hip-hop until the likes of Isaac Mizrahi and Karl Lagerfeld for Chanel showed collections inspired by hip-hop on their runways,” Romero wrote in an email.
While designers like Tommy Hilfiger were quick to make connections to hip-hop with product placement on performers like Snoop Dogg in a 1994 performance on “Saturday Night Live,” and brands like Cross Colours, Karl Kani, Walker Wear, Maurice Malone, Mecca USA and FUBU did somehow penetrate the mainstream, the establishment, Romero said, “frowned down upon” hip-hop, and for two primary reasons — “who did the designing and who the intended customers were.”
That trend has largely flipped, of course. Multinationals aggressively court fans of the genre, filling ad campaigns and their front rows with rap stars (if seldom staffing design studios with people of color).
Academe has also gotten in on the act, with Harvard and Cornell building archives dedicated to the complex and layered history of the genre. And in 2014, as Way noted, the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History added rapper and producer Slick Rick’s (Richard Martin Lloyd Walters) birth certificate to its collection, along with a microphone belonging to the incandescent rapper Rakim (né William Michael Griffin Jr.).
In 2018, Kendrick Lamar became the first rapper to win the Pulitzer Prize. And last year ground was broken for a mixed-use development in the Bronx that encompasses the Universal Hip Hop Museum, all of it set to open in 2024.
Yet, even a half century into hip-hop history, there is a sense that in historiographic terms we are at the beginning. “There are so many unsung heroes,” Romero said. Even among lauded progenitors of hip-hop style — storied designers like Daniel R. Day, whose Dapper Dan collaborations with Gucci brought him global renown — there is an inexhaustible trove of histories yet to tap and discoveries to make.
Last week Day said that when he was a boy, it was still commonplace for “us poor kids” to swim in the Harlem River, diving from a dock on the Manhattan side of the flow and then paddling to a nearby sandbank.
“We always threw in a stick from a Popsicle to pay attention to which way the current was moving,” said Day, whose innovative designs fused natty tailoring with home-printed bootleg logo fabrics that copied those manufactured by luxury labels like Fendi, Gucci and Louis Vuitton. “And that was my same philosophy of fashion: Follow the flow.”
Before being driven underground by anti-counterfeit squads, Day sold his designs to Harlem high rollers from a Harlem storefront. Many of his best customers happened to be gangsters. And some, like drug kingpin James Jackson, while notoriously feared for their for brutality, were widely emulated for their style.
“All that gold and diamonds people associate with the rappers, all the OG stuff, it’s a holdover from people like Jackson,” Day said. “He always had the flyest furs, the flyest cars, the flyest jewelry. He was the first one to come in with Louis Vuitton.”
Alas, there is relatively little bling in the FIT show, and so perhaps some other costume institution will one day mount a flashy display of massive gold dookie chains and gem-studded brass knuckle rings from Jacob Arabo, aka Jacob the Jeweler, or else glittering multimillion-dollar Lorraine Schwartz danglers like those that Beyoncé wore for her recent performance in Dubai. Or even the wild dental grills created by Vietnamese American jeweler Johnny Dang.
What the show’s curators assembled instead, from 50 private lenders, is a relatively low key, although no less affecting, display of designs representative of styles created, adapted or innovated among small groups that tended to find one another almost exclusively through word-of-mouth. “There would be this one party that five people were talking about all week,” said Gates, who grew up in St. Albans, Queens, another neighborhood where rap was incubated in its early days. “OK, maybe there was a flyer — maybe.’’
There are Dapper Dan jackets with insets of MCM fabric, Cross Colours knit caps, Kangol bucket hats like those LL Cool J made famous. From Ralph Lauren’s fall 1998 collection there are ski parkas that were once called suicide jackets because, as Way explained, “if you wore one, you were sure to get robbed.”
There are Lee jeans with the creases sewn in, monogram belt buckles of the sort sold at Times Square novelty shops. There are Afrocentric kufi-style hats of kente cloth like those Salt-N-Pepa wore on tour (with customized varsity jackets, ankle boots and tights). There are shearling coats and shell-toe Adidas, like those worn by Run DMC, and a case filled with the highly coveted record label lanyards that guaranteed backstage access when rap shows were still held in arenas and armories.
There are clothes that look generic to the point of insignificance unless, as Monica Lynch, the former head of Tommy Boy Records, explained by phone, “you understood the subtleties.’’
The “color story” of the early 1980s, for instance, was burgundy, said Lynch, who consults these days with Sotheby’s on auctions of the hip-hop memorabilia that is increasingly sought by collectors. “Then gray was really big. It was simple things. The Lee jeans were perfectly pressed. The sneakers had to be the right sneakers. People were perfectly turned out on no money at all. They shopped at outdoor circular racks on Fordham Road to get things for 19 bucks.”
They shopped at a place that called itself the “cheapest sneaker store in America,” an all-but-unimaginable concept in an era of astronomically expensive collector kicks.
“They shopped at the Albee Square Mall in Brooklyn or the Coliseum Mall in Queens or on 125th Street,” Lynch said. “It wasn’t the money. It was what they could do with it.”
Clothes tell stories, and the narrative composed in “Fresh, Fly, Fabulous,” as Gates remarked, is one built on the sort of accounts history too often overlooks. “There’s this patchwork quilt culture being created by a group of Black and brown young people with few options and fewer resources,” all making their dash for a version of the American dream.
For the photographer and hip-hop chronicler Jamel Shabazz, those early days were jubilant times. “We would gather up on a Saturday afternoon, the DJs would come out and hook equipment up to a lamp post,” he said. “Yes, the city was turbulent. And, yes, we still had a problem with heroin. But there weren’t guns yet, and people would go to the barbershop, go to Delancey Street for the flyest gear and then come together for a feel-good time dressed in their very best.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rap music; Genre; Books; Clothing; Archives & records; Design; Hip hop music; Museums; Hip hop culture; Designers

People: Beckman, Janette; LL Cool J (James Todd Smith)

Company / organization: Name: Cross Colours; NAICS: 458110; Name: Salt-N-Pepa; NAICS: 711130

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Carolina Herrera Ltd; Knowles, Beyonce; Mizrahi, Isaac; Fashion Institute Of Technology; Smithsonian Institution; Trebay, Guy; Fendi Spa; Lagerfeld, Karl; Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Vietnam; CryptoCom (Foris Dax Inc); Adidas Ag; Sotheby's; Snoop Dogg; Times Square And 42nd Street (Manhattan, Ny); Universal Hip Hop Museum; Harlem River (Bronx Manhattan, Ny); Cornell University; Fordham University; Brown University; National Museum Of African American History And Culture; Shabazz, Jamel; Way, Elizabeth (Curator); Fresh, Fly, Fabulous: Fifty Years Of Hip Hop Style (Book); Suicide (Music Group); St Albans (Queens, Ny); Bronx (Nyc); Queens (Nyc); Run Dmc; Lamar, Kendrick; Rose (1997 ); Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Louis Vuitton; Gucci; Queen Latifah; Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Day, Daniel (Dapper Dan); Lil Baby (Rapper); Salt N Pepa; Ll Cool J; Walters, Ricky (1965 ); Fast Life Yungstaz; Chanel Sa; Culture (Arts); Colleges And Universities; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Design; Trademarks And Trade Names; Birthdays; Luxury Goods And Services; Counterfeit Merchandise; Auctions; Counterfeit Money And Financial Instruments; Fur; Pulitzer Prizes; Fans (Persons); Shopping And Retail; Coats And Jackets; Gold; Jewels And Jewelry; Textiles; Mixed Use Developments; Real Estate (Commercial); Advertising And Marketing; Jeans (Apparel); Area Planning And Renewal; Shoes And Boots; Corporate Social Responsibility; Art; Elections; Sneakers; Lynching; Archives And Records; Music; Theater; Vietnamese Americans; Museums; Black People; Fashion And Apparel

Title: Hip-Hop, Still Fly at 50

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-08 @ 18:05

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774338004

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hip-hop-still-fly-at-50/docview/2774338004/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harry Styles Ate Here. His Fans Will Now Eat Here Forever.

Author: Creeden, Molly

Publication info: Creeden, Molly. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-his-fans-will-now-eat/docview/2772537192/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
At 9:30 a.m. on a Thursday, the Harrys began to arrive at Beachwood Cafe. Young women with neon hair extensions, colorful crocheted cardigans and shirts illustrated with cherries, sunflowers and the word “Pleasing” piled out of rental cars and Ubers. They were trailed by their mothers and filming on their phones. By 10:30, the mom-and pop eatery, which has been around since the 1970s in the heart of Los Angeles’ Beachwood Canyon, had a 30-minute wait, and a swarm of teenage girls taking photos in front of its blue door.
Who are the Harrys? They are Harry Styles superfans, and hordes of them have been making the pilgrimage to Beachwood Cafe, a cheerful spot with an all-day menu off a small village square, since December 2019. That’s when the superstar briefly name-checked the restaurant in the song “Falling”: “And the coffee’s out at the Beachwood Cafe,” he sang. That one line — which Styles-olgoists believe to be about his ex Camille Rowe, a former Beachwood Canyon resident — sent a bat signal.
“I just felt like coming here would complete the whole Harry Styles experience,” said Caysey Gossweiler, 27, who traveled from Maryland to attend one of the three concerts that Styles would perform at the Kia Forum that weekend in late January.
“It’s panic-inducing; I could literally evaporate thinking about it,” said Noelle Jay, 26, of being in the same space where Styles once ate eggs. “He’s like a god,” added her cousin Mia Tucci, 17, whose hair was a shade of Kelly green. “He’s like my comfort person, my light, my inspiration, all of the above,” Jay replied.
Nearby, Nathan Freeman, 26, and his wife, Shannon Freeman, 25, were taking photos of Taylor Anderson and Alyson Johnston — 20-year-old college students from Oregon they had just met. “It was like — where should we go for breakfast? Harry told us where to go!” Nathan Freeman said gleefully.
The couple, who wore matching crop top and bell bottom ensembles to attend the concert at the Forum, had spent the previous day at Sycamore Cove Beach in Malibu, where fans say Styles filmed the videos for “Watermelon Sugar” and the One Direction song “What Makes You Beautiful.”
“She ran and screamed and fan-girled,” Nathan Freeman said, describing his wife’s behavior upon arriving at the beach. “I was like, ah!” he shrieked. “I love this for you!”
Shannon Freeman said she admired Styles for his kindness. “I’ve never seen a scandal from him ever — which is amazing.”
Over avocado toast at a table inside, Anderson — who made her family do a detour during an Amalfi Coast vacation to visit a street where Styles filmed parts of the “Golden” music video (she found the location by searching Google Maps for landmarks in the background of the behind-the-scenes video) — offered her perspective on the fandom. “It’s a family in a lot of ways,” she said. “A good example of how the online world connects people.”
Johnston finished watching a video on her phone of Styles doing Pilates, via the fan account Harry Florals, and added: “You can just kind of look at someone, and if they’re our age and wearing clothes that resemble the Harry style it’s like, OK, these are people you can talk to who are nice.”
“The term is ‘Harry coded,’” explained Xoee Margolis, 26, who was wearing neon orange Adidas Gazelles (inspired by ones Styles wears from the Gucci/Adidas collaboration). She held two new Beachwood Market totes in her hand, which she’d seen while browsing the cafe’s merchandise section online from her home in New York City. “Wearing a little cherry is an ode to the ‘Cherry’ song, carrying around a Beachwood bag the shoes are Harry-coded — it’s a vibe.”
“I made the mistake of not bringing in merch earlier,” said the cafe’s owner, Mike Fahim. But when he discovered eBay and Etsy accounts selling knockoff merchandise for his restaurant, he saw a business opportunity.
When Fahim took over the cafe in fall 2019, the crowd was a mix of locals, tourists headed to the nearby Hollywood sign, business lunches from film studios, and celebrities flying under the radar. In early 2020, the clientele started shifting to Gen Z girls and young women — some of whom bring cardboard cutouts of Styles for photos — and, in some cases, their parents.
Fahim, who had never heard of Styles, embraced the affiliation.
Now, the tip jar says “Harry Tips Here.” A sign depicted in a mural declares “The Coffee’s Out,” referring to the line in the song featuring Beachwood. And he and his staff are happy to take photos and answer fans’ questions about what Styles is said to have eaten (the Beachwood Scramble), and where he sat (the table at the center of the room, and the booth in the far right corner). Someone on the staff monitors “the whole situation on Instagram and TikTok,” Fahim said. If Styles is in town — as he was for two weeks in the fall, when the cafe ran out of menu items and merchandise — they double up on staff and supplies.
On the Saturday of Styles’ concert run at the Forum, a line started forming outside the cafe an hour before opening. It included Emma Szumowski, 21, from Massachusetts, who stood with her parents, Laura and Steve McMahon. The concert she’d gone to the previous evening was her sixth time seeing Styles. She had tickets for one more show in Los Angeles and two in Palm Springs that week.
“I get it, I’m a big Springsteen fan — I started following him around in ’84,” said Steve McMahon, 58, who, at his daughter’s request, had gotten up early to be second in line.
The line snaked past the dry cleaners and into the square. At 8:40 a.m., Nicholas Braun, an actor who plays Cousin Greg on “Succession,” joined it — appearing slightly bewildered by the crowd — and then left before he was seated.
Across the street, Jim Krantz, 67, and Brian Burchfield, 59, Beachwood Canyon residents, stood outside the Hollywoodland Realty building, taking in the scene.
“I mean, this was like ‘Mayberry R.F.D.’ — but not anymore,” said Krantz, sipping a mug of tea and referencing the 1968 spinoff of “The Andy Griffith Show” — a sentence likely to draw a blank with the teenage girls filming their breakfast burritos across the street.
“I think it’s fascinating, a social phenomenon,” he added. “But it’s a bit of an inconvenience when it comes to being able to do your daily life up here.”
Wait times were between two and three hours throughout the weekend. At one point Saturday, the diners inside the cafe broke out into a loud rendition of “Falling.” Before the wave of Styles fans, Fahim typically served 300 guests from Friday to Sunday; he now serves 1,000 on average. The locals still come, but they often grumble about the wait times and lack of parking — and if they see a line, they steer clear.
Most fans agreed that this was no longer a place where Styles was likely to set foot. This realization sometimes prompted fan conspiracy theories — did he mention the cafe because he knew it would send fans flocking there, and it was too painful a place to return because of its romantic history there? But even if that were the case, “it’s cool to envision him sitting in there being all sad and lonely,” said Bryn Langrock, 23.
And if Styles did dine at Beachwood Cafe again, Fahim says he knows what he’d tell him: “Thank you.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Families & family life; Restaurants

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Beachwood Canyon; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Google Inc; Maryland; Griffith, Andy; Instagram Inc; Oregon; Massachusetts; Palm Springs (Calif); Ebay Inc; Etsy Inc; New York City; Google Maps; Tiktok (Bytedance); L A Forum (Inglewood, Calif); Kia Motors Corp; Cherry (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Adidas Ag; Los Angeles (Calif); Braun, Nicholas (1988 ); Styles, Harry; One Direction (Music Group); Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Cooking And Cookbooks; Beaches; Maps; Cryptography, Codes And Ciphers; Automobiles; Fruit; Generation Z; Exercise; Advertising And Marketing; Social Media; Computers And The Internet; Sugar; Youth; Music; Hair; Travel And Vacations; Teenagers And Adolescence; Restaurants; Parenting; Flowers And Plants; Fans (Persons); Movies; Handicrafts; Photography

Title: Harry Styles Ate Here. His Fans Will Now Eat Here Forever.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 4, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-04 @ 21:11

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772537192

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-his-fans-will-now-eat/docview/2772537192/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyrigh t New York Times Company Feb 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Where Will the Fashion Insiders Hang Out Now?

Author: Isaac-Goizé, Tina

Publication info: Isaac-Goizé, Tina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-will-fashion-insiders-hang-out-now/docview/2770825786/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
PARIS — Le Castiglione, the retro-glamorous cafe with a long, marble bar, red velvet banquettes and warm, flattering lighting, drew its red curtains for the last time early Sunday.
For more than 30 years, Le Casti, as it is known, had attracted well-turned-out habitués from the worlds of fashion, film and design. In the morning, it was a favorite among locals and employees from nearby boutiques who come to read the paper over a coffee, and maybe have a cigarette on the terrace before work. At noon, it became a discreet power-lunch spot for magazine editors, designers and fashion publicists, interspersed with tourists quaffing Champagne over a salade niçoise.
After hours, the music turned up slightly for the aperitif crowd, a mashup of off-duty A-listers, fashion insiders and visitors who returned again and again for the 37-euro “Casti burger” made famous in a 2002 article by Cathy Horyn, then The New York Times’ fashion critic. After that article, American visitors began dropping by just to see whether Tea Time, the resident English springer spaniel, was really there. (He usually was.)
If Le Castiglione’s wood-paneled and mirrored walls could talk, they’d whisper about the comings and goings that made this haunt a must. Like the time the Rolling Stones turned up rowdy after midnight, just as the kitchen was closing, demanding dinner. Or how longtime Vogue eminence André Leon Talley would breeze in from the Ritz or Le Meurice for breakfast wearing a feather boa, returning at night with a glittery entourage.
Or how Kate Moss would dine quietly in a corner while the staff kept paparazzi at bay outside. Or, recalled Jean-Christophe Affolter, the restaurant’s general manager, how a tiff between an A-list American actress and her husband got so fraught upstairs that the entire waitstaff decided to sit it out downstairs.
Le Castiglione’s closing doesn’t just change the fashion landscape; it transforms the face of Paris. A pillar of the Place Vendôme neighborhood and arguably its best, and most photogenic, cafe, it is the last storefront to shutter on the ground floor of a building that was originally part of an 18th-century convent and sits on the Rue St. Honoré just opposite Louis Vuitton.
As recently as Thanksgiving, its immediate neighbors included chocolatier Pierre Marcolini, hairdresser Alexandre de Paris and, under the nearby arcades on the Rue de Castiglione, perfume shops for Annick Goutal and jewelry designer JAR. By Christmas, a real estate developer had begun renovations that will reconfigure a vast retail space that, once finished, will be home to a Gucci flagship with a restaurant.
For Fabrice Couet, owner of Le Castiglione, closing signals the end of a chapter in his life that began in 1990, when Couet, then 24, took over the lease for a floundering café américain — the kind that serves drinks and not much worthwhile food — alongside his father, Pierre.
“It’s a little bizarre, because my daughters used to go to school in the neighborhood, and they’d come for lunch,” Couet said. “We’ve watched the entire neighborhood change into the Avenue Montaigne,” he added, referring to the touristy Right Bank shopping destination. When he arrived, his was one of six old-fashioned Parisian cafes that dotted the section from the Rue Royale to the Rue de Castiglione. As of Sunday, there were none.
One of Le Castiglione’s earliest loyalists was ABC News correspondent Deborah Roberts, who recalled discovering the place while honeymooning with her husband, Al Roker, 27 years ago.
“We stayed at Le Crillon and stumbled across this very cool bistro,” Roberts said in a phone interview. “We stopped in for coffee and then returned again, and it just became a part of us.” Now that the couple’s daughter lives in Paris, the family tradition had carried on.
When she learned of the closing, “it felt like a gut punch,” Roberts said. “Le Castiglione is as much a part of our Paris experience as anything is, and I just assumed I would be going there, with my family or with my girlfriends, just to breathe the air of Paris, have Champagne and eat frites.”
Business was lean in the early years. At the time of the first Gulf War, in 1991, the neighborhood was filled with small, independent businesses, like galleries, a tailor and specialized shops selling toy soldiers or jewelry. When tourists stayed home, the cafe’s clientele was mainly lawyers, bankers and insurance executives who worked in and around the Place Vendôme. Luxury shopping then was concentrated on the Faubourg St. Honoré, west of the Rue Royale, and older business owners around the Place Vendôme struggled to sell their spaces.
Then, with the opening of the Hotel Costes, in 1995, followed by the concept store Colette, a few blocks down, in 1997, and the arrival of Goyard next door the year after that, the area was reborn. Couet kept Le Castiglione an Old World-style cafe, run with two longtime employees, Affolter and Augustin Martinez, a manager; occasional help from his life partner, Claudia Castro, a Brazilian-born American; and the company of his spaniel, Garry, a direct descendant of Tea Time.
For some clients, Couet and Castro have become like family. No longer having Le Castiglione, many said, will transform their way of living and working.
“It’s a monument,” said Yasmin Kayser, a former market editor for French Vogue who is now the editorial business director at fashion magazine Mixte. “The history’s different, but it’s almost as if the Deux Magots was closing. For 20 years, it’s been the place where I’ve gone for breakfast, lunch and dinner and met people from the industry. It’s like a little world unto itself.”
For Grégoire Marot, the founder of boutique public relations firm Favori, a table on the terrace at Le Castiglione was almost an extension of his office, which is next door, one floor above Goyard.
“If I’m not there three times a week, I’m on vacation,” he said. “I’d go for coffee and have this strategic position where you can do your job. Here, there’s the Ritz, and there’s the Castiglione. It’s not like in the U.S., where everything is immediately reborn. It’s the end of something. It’s sad, but c’est la vie.”
Marc Auclert, a jewelry designer who has long lived in the neighborhood and has a shop on the Rue de Castiglione, said that this section of the Right Bank is experiencing the same kind of transformation that rattled St.-Germain-des-Prés a generation ago, when the Drugstore Publicis was converted into a Giorgio Armani boutique and restaurant.
“I’m sure whatever they do here will be beautiful, but it will be another world,” he said.
Auclert described the morning crowd at Le Castiglione as a little social group of soft connections, people who have known one another for years but don’t necessarily need to talk.
“It’s also the best way to learn who’s just arrived at the Ritz,” he said.
Starting Monday, Auclert and his fellow regulars will have to choose a new morning headquarters. At the moment, there are few contenders — perhaps Da Rosa Jr. or Maisie Café on the Rue du Mont Thabor, or La Coupe d’Or, a more-or-less traditional cafe that runs more on efficiency than ambience.
In the meantime, as the news spread, Couet said he had been contacted by clients from all over the world who want to buy a lamp, a bar stool or other memorabilia.
For those with a bit of patience, however, Couet has been quietly cooking up a new project. In January 2020, he bought the Café des Tuileries, on the corner of the Rue de Rivoli and the Rue du 29 Juillet. Like Le Castiglione 30 years ago, the place had seen better days.
On a recent January afternoon, the Café des Tuileries was full, and Couet’s daughter Carla was serving customers. He is planning to close it for renovations. When it reopens, some of Le Castiglione’s banquettes, now reupholstered in green velvet, as well as tables, dishes, glasses and silverware, will have found a new home opposite the Louvre and its gardens.
While details like dates, work permits and interior décor have yet to be confirmed, one thing is certain: The Casti burger will still be on the menu. That, and Garry will be there, too. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Daughters; Jewelry; Restaurants; Neighborhoods; Coffee; Business closings

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Business closings

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Talley, Andre Leon; Montana; Brazil; Rolling Stones; United States; France; Horyn, Cathy; Abc News; New York Times; Publicis Groupe; French Vogue; Colette (Paris, France, Retailer); Louvre Museum; Couet, Fabrice; Auclert, Marc; Louis Vuitton; Gucci; Vogue; Moss, Kate; Hotel Ritz Paris; Out Publishing Inc; Paris (France); Le Castiglione (Paris, France, Restaurant); Roker, Al; Roberts, Deborah (1960 ); Design; Kitchens; Labor And Jobs; News And News Media; Flowers And Plants; Shopping And Retail; Real Estate (Commercial); Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Generation Z; Theater; Area Planning And Renewal; International Relations; Restaurants; Museums; Magazines; Fashion And Apparel

Title: Where Will the Fashion Insiders Hang Out Now?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-30 @ 21:01

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770825786

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/where-will-fashion-insiders-hang-out-now/docview/2770825786/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Can K-Pop Make the Metaverse Cool?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Jin Yu Young; Stevens, Matt

Publication info: Jin Yu Young; Stevens, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-k-pop-make-metaverse-cool/docview/2770573605/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the world's testing ground for tech, K-pop singers are being spun up out of pixels and doing battle in a virtual universe.
In a vast studio outside Seoul, technicians huddled in front of monitors, watching cartoon K-pop singers -- at least one of whom had a tail -- dance in front of a psychedelic backdrop. A woman with fairy wings fluttered by.
Everyone onscreen was real, sort of. The singers had human counterparts in the studio, isolated in cubicles, with headsets on their faces and joysticks in both hands. Immersed in a virtual world, they were competing to become part of (hopefully) the next big Korean girl band.
The stakes were high. A few of their competitors, after failing to make the cut, had been dropped into bubbling lava.
This, some say, is the future of entertainment in the metaverse, brought to you by South Korea, the world's testing ground for all things technological.
"There are a lot of people who want to get into the metaverse, but it hasn't reached critical mass, users-wise, yet," said Jung Yoon-hyuk, an associate professor at Korea University's School of Media and Communication. "Other places want to venture into the metaverse, but to be successful, you need to have good content. In Korea, that content is K-pop."
In the metaverse -- whatever that is, exactly -- the normal rules don't apply. And the Korean entertainment industry is delving into the possibilities, confident that fans will happily follow.
K-pop groups have had virtual counterparts for years. Karina, a real-life member of the band Aespa, can be seen on YouTube chatting with her digital self, "ae-Karina," in an exchange that comes off as seamlessly as late-night TV.
The Korean company Kakao Entertainment wants to take things further. It's working with a mobile gaming company, Netmarble, to develop a K-pop band called Mave that exists only in cyberspace, where its four artificial members will interact with real-life fans around the world.
Kakao is also behind "Girl's Re:verse," a K-pop-in-the-metaverse show, whose debut episode on streaming platforms this month was viewed more than a million times in three days. For both projects, Kakao is contemplating album releases, brand endorsements, video games and digital comics, among other things.
Compared with their Korean counterparts, media companies in the United States have only engaged in "light experimentation" with the metaverse so far, said Andrew Wallenstein, the president and chief media analyst of Variety Intelligence Platform.
Countries like South Korea "are often looked at like a test bed for how the future is going to pan out," Mr. Wallenstein said. "If any trend is going to move from overseas to the U.S., I would put South Korea at the front of the line in terms of who is likeliest to be that springboard."
South Korea's experiments with virtual entertainment date back at least 25 years, to the brief life span of an artificial singer called Adam. A child of the '90s, he was a pixelated creature of computer graphics, with sweepy eye-covering bangs and a raspy voice that tried a bit too hard to sound sexy. Adam disappeared from the public eye after releasing an album in 1998.
But digital creations like him, or it, have been a hallmark of Korean popular culture for a generation. Today, Korean "virtual influencers" like Rozy and Lucy have Instagram followings in the six figures and promote very real brands, like Chevrolet and Gucci.
The influencers have been purposely made to look almost real, but not quite; their near-human quality is part of their appeal, said Baik Seung-yup, Rozy's creator.
"We want to create a new genre of content," said Mr. Baik, who estimated that about 70 percent of the world's virtual influencers are Korean.
According to McKinsey, more than $ 120 billion was spent globally on developing metaverse technology in the first five months of 2022. Much of that came from companies operating in the United States, said Matthew Ball, a tech entrepreneur who has written a book about the metaverse.
The highest-profile recent example was when Facebook renamed itself "Meta" in a multibillion-dollar attempt to embrace the next digital frontier, only to see its stock tumble and its earnings decline.
The South Korean government is investing more than $ 170 million to support development efforts here, forming what it calls a "metaverse alliance" that includes hundreds of companies. Mr. Ball said it is one of the most aggressive programs of its kind. But while South Korea may be "leagues ahead" when it comes to synthetic pop stars, whether its companies are likely to take a leading role as the metaverse evolves "is an open question," Mr. Ball said.
Government backing for new technologies has paid off for South Korea in the past. The country built its modern economy over the past few decades on the backs of tech conglomerates and placed a winning bet on the cellphone industry, laying the groundwork for it to become what Bernie Cho, a music executive in Seoul, called "the most wired and wireless country."
Teenagers here scroll through comics on phones, consume countless hours of Korean dramas without a cable box and zealously follow K-pop stars on social media and new platforms. On Zepeto and Weverse, fans interact with each other, sometimes as customizable avatars, and with their favorite bands.
Kakao Entertainment -- an arm of Kakao, South Korea's do-everything tech company -- is billing Mave, its artificial band in progress, as the first K-pop group created entirely within the metaverse, using machine learning, deep fake, face swap and full 3-D production technology. To give them global appeal, the company wants the "girls" of Mave to eventually be able to converse in, say, Portuguese with a Brazilian fan and Mandarin with someone in Taiwan, fluently and convincingly.
The idea, said Kang Sung-ku, a technical director for the project, is that once such virtual beings can simulate meaningful conversations, "no real human will ever be lonely."
Kakao's singing show, "Girl's Re:verse," has a familiar reality-TV "survival" format: 30 singers, eliminated over time, until the last five standing form a band. But the contestants -- all members of established K-pop bands or solo artists -- compete, banter and hang out as avatars, in a virtual world called "W." Their real identities are not revealed until they leave the show (in some cases, by way of the lava) or make it to the end.
There are few limits to the imagination in "W," which whisks its contestants from the open sea to a Versailles-like palace to a desert landscape. One avatar is a chocolate princess, born in a cocoa tree; another has red devil horns. Pengsoo, a blunt-talking penguin mascot popular in South Korea, is one of the judges.
The contestants were involved in creating their avatars, said Son Su-jung, a producer for the show. She said part of the point was to give K-pop singers -- "idols," as they are called -- a break from the industry's relentless beauty standards, letting them be judged by their talent, not their looks. (Though the avatars, it should perhaps be said, all have big eyes and heart-shaped faces.)
The show also lets them drop their polished public personas, relax and crack jokes. "Idols in the real world are expected to be a product of perfection, but we hope that through this show, they can let go of those pressures," Ms. Son said.
At a recent taping, glitches were still being ironed out. Support staff popped in and out of cubicles to help singers fiddle with their equipment. At least one mishap made it into the first episode: "I can't hear you!" a contestant yelled as a judge repeatedly asked her the same question.
But some things about reality TV hadn't changed. Even avatars, it turns out, are encouraged to snipe at their competitors.
"Look at the green light," a producer intoned through a microphone to a contestant, whose avatar stared back at him from the screen.
"Who do you think did the worst?" he said. "Talk as if you're gossiping about someone."
Photograph Aiki, top, a judge on "Girl's Re:verse," during a taping outside Seoul. Like the K-pop singers competing on the show, she was immersed in "W," the show's virtual universe. Above, from left, a few of the many worlds of "W," in which the contestants appear in cartoon form. (B1); The singer Bada, above, one of the hosts of "Girl's Re:verse," preparing to don a headset and enter "W," far left, the show's virtual universe. Left, contestants in their cubicles. The survival show doesn't reveal their identities until they are eliminated or make it to the end. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUN MICHAEL PARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KAKAO ENTERTAINMENT) (B2) This article appeared in print on page B1, B2.

Subject: Bands; Popular music; K-pop music; Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances; Social networks; Universe

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; South Korea

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/29/business/metaverse-k-pop-south-korea.html

Title: Can K-Pop Make the Metaverse Cool?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770573605

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-k-pop-make-metaverse-cool/docview/2770573605/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Will the Metaverse Be Entertaining? Ask South Korea.

Author: Jin Yu Young; Stevens, Matt

Publication info: Jin Yu Young; Stevens, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/will-metaverse-be-entertaining-ask-south-korea/docview/2770475534/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SEOUL, South Korea — In a vast studio outside Seoul, technicians huddled in front of monitors, watching cartoon K-pop singers — at least one of whom had a tail — dance in front of a psychedelic backdrop. A woman with fairy wings fluttered by.
Everyone on screen was real, sort of. The singers had human counterparts in the studio, isolated in cubicles, with headsets on their faces and joysticks in both hands. Immersed in a virtual world, they were competing to become part of (hopefully) the next big Korean girl band.
The stakes were high. A few of their competitors, after failing to make the cut, had been dropped into bubbling lava.
This, some say, is the future of entertainment in the metaverse, brought to you by South Korea, the world’s testing ground for all things technological.
“There are a lot of people who want to get into the metaverse, but it hasn’t reached critical mass, users-wise, yet,” said Jung Yoon-hyuk, an associate professor at Korea University’s School of Media and Communication. “Other places want to venture into the metaverse, but to be successful, you need to have good content. In Korea, that content is K-pop.”
In the metaverse — whatever that is, exactly — the normal rules don’t apply. And the Korean entertainment industry is delving into the possibilities, confident that fans will happily follow.
K-pop groups have had virtual counterparts for years. Karina, a real-life member of the band Aespa, can be seen on YouTube chatting with her digital self, “ae-Karina,” in an exchange that comes off as seamlessly as late-night TV.
Korean company Kakao Entertainment wants to take things further. It’s working with a mobile gaming company, Netmarble, to develop a K-pop band called Mave that exists only in cyberspace, where its four artificial members will interact with real-life fans around the world.
Kakao is also behind “Girl’s Re:verse,” a K-pop-in-the-metaverse show, whose debut episode on streaming platforms this month was viewed more than 1 million times in three days. For both projects, Kakao is contemplating album releases, brand endorsements, video games and digital comics, among other things.
Compared with their Korean counterparts, media companies in the United States have only engaged in “light experimentation” with the metaverse so far, said Andrew Wallenstein, president and chief media analyst of Variety Intelligence Platform.
Countries like South Korea “are often looked at like a test bed for how the future is going to pan out,” Wallenstein said. “If any trend is going to move from overseas to the U.S., I would put South Korea at the front of the line in terms of who is likeliest to be that springboard.”
South Korea’s experiments with virtual entertainment date back at least 25 years, to the brief life span of an artificial singer called Adam. A child of the ’90s, he was a pixelated creature of computer graphics, with sweepy eye-covering bangs and a raspy voice that tried a bit too hard to sound sexy. Adam disappeared from the public eye after releasing an album in 1998.
But digital creations like him, or it, have been a hallmark of Korean popular culture for a generation. Today, Korean “virtual influencers” like Rozy and Lucy have Instagram followings in the six figures and promote very real brands, like Chevrolet and Gucci.
The influencers have been purposely made to look almost real but not quite; their near-human quality is part of their appeal, said Baik Seung-yup, Rozy’s creator.
“We want to create a new genre of content,” said Baik, who estimated that about 70% of the world’s virtual influencers are Korean.
According to McKinsey, more than $120 billion was spent globally on developing metaverse technology in the first five months of 2022. Much of that came from companies operating in the United States, said Matthew Ball, a tech entrepreneur who has written a book about the metaverse.
The highest-profile recent example was when Facebook renamed itself “Meta” in a multibillion-dollar attempt to embrace the next digital frontier, only to see its stock tumble and its earnings decline.
The South Korean government is investing more than $170 million to support development efforts here, forming what it calls a “metaverse alliance” that includes hundreds of companies. Ball said it is one of the most aggressive programs of its kind. But while South Korea may be “leagues ahead” when it comes to synthetic pop stars, whether its companies are likely to take a leading role as the metaverse evolves “is an open question,” Ball said.
Government backing for new technologies has paid off for South Korea in the past. The country built its modern economy over the past few decades on the backs of tech conglomerates and placed a winning bet on the cellphone industry, laying the groundwork for it to become what Bernie Cho, a music executive in Seoul, called “the most wired and wireless country.”
Teenagers here scroll through comics on phones, consume countless hours of Korean dramas without a cable box and zealously follow K-pop stars on social media and new platforms. On Zepeto and Weverse, fans interact with each other, sometimes as customizable avatars, and with their favorite bands.
Kakao Entertainment — an arm of Kakao, South Korea’s do-everything tech company — is billing Mave, its artificial band in progress, as the first K-pop group created entirely within the metaverse, using machine learning, deepfake, face swap and full 3D production technology. To give them global appeal, the company wants the “girls” of Mave to eventually be able to converse in, say, Portuguese with a Brazilian fan and Mandarin with someone in Taiwan, fluently and convincingly.
The idea, said Kang Sung-ku, a technical director for the project, is that once such virtual beings can simulate meaningful conversations, “no real human will ever be lonely.”
Kakao’s singing show, “Girl’s Re:verse,” has a familiar reality-TV “survival” format: 30 singers, eliminated over time, until the last five standing form a band. But the contestants — all members of established K-pop bands or solo artists — compete, banter and hang out as avatars, in a virtual world called “W.” Their real identities are not revealed until they leave the show (in some cases, by way of the lava) or make it to the end.
There are few limits to the imagination in “W,” which whisks its contestants from the open sea to a Versailles-like palace to a desert landscape. One avatar is a chocolate princess, born in a cocoa tree; another has red devil horns. Pengsoo, a blunt-talking penguin mascot popular in South Korea, is one of the judges.
The contestants were involved in creating their avatars, said Son Su-jung, a producer for the show. She said part of the point was to give K-pop singers — “idols,” as they are called — a break from the industry’s relentless beauty standards, letting them be judged by their talent, not their looks. (Though the avatars, it should perhaps be said, all have big eyes and heart-shaped faces.)
The show also lets them drop their polished public personas, relax and crack jokes. “Idols in the real world are expected to be a product of perfection, but we hope that through this show, they can let go of those pressures,” Son said.
At a recent taping, glitches were still being ironed out. Support staff popped in and out of cubicles to help singers fiddle with their equipment. At least one mishap made it into the first episode: “I can’t hear you!” a contestant yelled as a judge repeatedly asked her the same question.
But some things about reality TV hadn’t changed. Even avatars, it turns out, are encouraged to snipe at their competitors.
“Look at the green light,” a producer intoned through a microphone to a contestant, whose avatar stared back at him from the screen.
“Who do you think did the worst?” he said. “Talk as if you’re gossiping about someone.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Bands; Popular music; K-pop music; Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances; Social networks; Universe

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; South Korea

Identifier / keyword: Business; United States International Relations; Taiwan; Instagram Inc; Brazil; Portugal; YoutubeCom; Facebook Inc; Gucci; Netmarble Games Corp; Kakao Entertainment Corp; Ball, Matthew (1993 ); United States; Seoul (South Korea); Variety; Meta Platforms Inc; Aespa (Music Group); South Korea; Metaverse (Internet); Children And Childhood; Artificial Intelligence; Face; Comic Books And Strips; Korean Americans; Fans (Persons); Television Sets And Media Devices; Rumors And Misinformation; Generation Z; Virtual Reality (Computers); Privacy; Fashion And Apparel; Comedy And Humor; Music; Social Media; Computer And Video Games; Politics And Government; Reality Television; K Pop; Dancing; Contests And Prizes; Computers And The Internet

Title: Will the Metaverse Be Entertaining? Ask South Korea.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-29 @ 18:57

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770475534

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/will-metaverse-be-entertaining-ask-south-korea/docview/2770475534/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Well, Kids, Your Plans Are Fine. In Theory.: [Review]

Author: Kennedy, Lisa

Publication info: Kennedy, Lisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/well-kids-your-plans-are-fine-theory/docview/2769900294/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jonah Hill and Eddie Murphy are among the stars in this prickly-charming generational Netflix comedy, the feature directing debut of Kenya Barris.
When Ezra hops in the back seat of Amira's Mini Cooper, sparks fly. Played with savvy charm by Lauren London, the budding costume designer furiously calls out Jonah Hill's unhappy broker and fledgling podcaster for his assumption that she, a Black woman, is his rideshare pickup. But their exchange goes from prickly to something warmer and at times winning -- which is an apt description of this interracial, interfaith, bigotry-teasing comedy, directed by Kenya Barris and written by Hill and Barris.
More than his Wu-Tang Clan tees and her Gucci slides, hip-hop culture is their lingua franca.
And these kids are all right-ish, to borrow a suffix Barris made popular with his TV shows "black-ish" and "grown-ish." Much like the parents who met in "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" more than 50 years ago, it's the elders who prove to be the problem. Julia Louis-Dreyfus and David Duchovny play Shelley and Arnold Cohen of Brentwood; Eddie Murphy and Nia Long are Amira's pessimistic-at-best parents, Akbar and Fatima Mohammed, of Baldwin Hills.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
While Duchovny and Long aren't silent partners here, it's the former "S.N.L." castmates Murphy and Louis-Dreyfus who whet the comedy as their characters are poised to scuttle Ezra and Amira's plans to wed. Shelley by being so effusive in her clumsy embrace of Amira that she becomes exhaustingly offensive. The disapproving Akbar by trying to reveal Ezra as a white opportunist.
Hill's Ezra is, in fact, a fool of sorts. Mo, his cocky partner in podcasting (played by the dynamic comic Sam Jay) tries to keep him real. But Ezra lies to please. He tries too hard. He refers to Malcolm X as "the G.O.AT." during his first meeting with Amira's parents at a Roscoe's Chicken & Waffles (his idea). He wants to be edgy and lovable. And Hill, wearing blond-streaked hair and a lit smile, carries that yearning throughout the film.
Hill and London build on a nice vibe. Their characters are playful and frisky, in sync with their eye rolling and mouthing of apologies from across a room. Like the betrothed, viewers recognize the shoals but remain optimistic they can navigate them. And then the movie begins nimbly nudging doubts. Maybe there is no happily ever after here.
Between the two of them, insiders Barris and Hill must have Rolodexes that cover the entire industry. There are cameos aplenty. Rhea Perlman offers a few quips as Ezra's grandmother. Richard Benjamin, Hal Linden and Elliott Gould say wildly inappropriate things after a Yom Kippur service. Anthony Anderson cuts heads at a Crenshaw barbershop. And Mike Epps arrives as Akbar's knowing brother, E.J.
Additionally, Los Angeles gets more than a passing glance. Mark Doering-Powell's photography hovers from above and cruises at street level, capturing the city in its best light. This L.A. feels decidedly upscale. With its lavish homage to sneakerhead couture and its killer soundtrack (by Bekon), "You People" can be read as either a critique of the commercialization of hip-hop culture or a celebration of its ongoing durability. Or maybe it's both, which would likely suit Amira and Ezra just fine.
You People
Rated R for language, sexual friskiness and cannabis use. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes. Watch on Netflix.
You People Rated R for language, sexual friskiness and cannabis use. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes. On Netflix.
Photograph From left, David Duchovny, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Jonah Hill, Lauren London, Eddie Murphy and Nia Long in "You People," directed by Kenya Barris. The comedy is about a young white man and young Black woman who aim to get married. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARRISH LEWIS/NETFLIX) This article appeared in print on page C7.

Subject: Comedies; Motion pictures

People: Murphy, Eddie; Hill, Jonah; Barris, Kenya

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/26/movies/you-people-review.html

Title: Well, Kids, Your Plans Are Fine. In Theory.:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 27, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2769900294

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/well-kids-your-plans-are-fine-theory/docview/2769900294/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Taking Chances With Their Look: [Correction]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-chances-with-their-look/docview/2769504160/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Four days before they arrived in New York, just after their third album release and just before their Grammy's close-up and the next leg of their world tour, the four members of Maneskin, the Italian band with a Danish name that won global recognition after winning Eurovision in 2021, were married in Rome. To one another.
They all wore white: Singer Damiano David, 24, a double-breasted tuxedo, vest and hoop earrings; bassist Victoria De Angelis, 22, a lace veil, draped top, trousers and opera gloves; drummer Ethan Torchio, 22, a full skirt, lace halter, tulle veil and more gloves; and electric guitarist Thomas Raggi, 22, a white top hat and long coat.
They all carried bouquets of blood red roses. Machine Gun Kelly was in the audience; so was the director Baz Luhrmann.
Alessandro Michele, the former creative director of Gucci, officiated in "the name of Apollo, Elvis and Jimmy Page" -- not to mention global promotion for all involved. (They aren't polyamorous, just best friends.) And thus was the relationship between fashion and rock consecrated yet again.
To be fair, this was no rush to the altar (even if "Rush!" is the name of Maneskin's new album). The two industries have been hot 'n' heavy over each other for decades, but rarely has a young band used fashion to amplify and extend its message with quite as much eye-popping cheer as Maneskin. From the time it burst onto the global scene in Rotterdam in metallic burgundy leather lace-up Etro, looking like the love children of Jimi Hendrix and Abba and belting out "Zitti e Buoni," the band has become synonymous with a particularly kind of gleeful rock god get-up.
That is in part because of its yearlong ubiquity: more than 6.5 billion streams on Spotify; playing Coachella, "Saturday Night Live" and the #StandUpForUkraine campaign; opening for the Rolling Stones; collaborating with Iggy Pop and Tom Morello of Rage Against the Machine; contributing a song to the "Elvis" soundtrack; and performing at the MTV Video Music Awards, where the band was nominated for three awards, won one and Ms. De Angelis experienced a wardrobe malfunction during their performance that became something of a viral cause célèbre.
And thanks to working with Mr. Michele, who gave the Maneskin quartet a hot mess of a wardrobe inspired by rock icons past: chaps and leather G-strings, sequins and grommets and dog collars and pearls; velvets and feathers and '70s flares (and a tendency to take it all off the more heated things become). In a world where the greatest musical image-makers generally sprinkle their favors across the fashion landscape -- hello, Beyoncé -- they may be the best argument for commitment between brand and band since David Bowie hooked up with Kansai Yamamoto.
Now, however, Mr. Michele, who once described his relationship with Maneskin by saying, "When we finally met, it was like when you have sex for the first time with the person you like and you say, 'It was obvious that we were going to make love in an extraordinary way,"' has departed Gucci. The new album is about the darker side of fame; they know the honeymoon period can't last forever.
The band, which has been playing together since they were teenagers and still talks like kids lounging around a basement at home, spent some time ruminating on clothes, music and what happens next.
Does it surprise you that your clothes have become such a talking point?
Victoria De Angelis What we're doing is very different from what is the norm in Italy or how Italy is often represented. So I think somehow it's making a big impact whether people like it or not.
Damiano David Our clothes are like a billboard that says: "We are here. Look at us." It's a way to make ourselves and our message more readable and more impactful. We always had the view that to make it, we had to take care of the whole 360 -- not just the music but how we look and how we use social media and how we play, what we play, where we play. Our attitude.
So you dressed like this from the beginning?
VA I think it's something that has helped us develop our personalities as a way to empower ourselves. Especially growing up in Rome in the neighborhood where we grew up. It's very conservative. In high school everyone looked at us like we were freaks because we were playing and dressed up weirdly. If you go to London or Berlin, no one cares what you're wearing. But in Rome, if you walk on the street, boys wearing makeup or stuff like that, everyone is looking like you're the Devil.
Thomas Raggi The first time we met Ethan was really hippie, braids, tie-dye, socks, sandals.
Ethan Torchio Rainbows. I liked a lot of rainbows.
VA I had different phases. I went through, like, a punk and dark gothic phase, and then I was very hippie and then just very camp, very eccentric. Lot of colors and stuff.
TR I discovered style in general really late. At the beginning I was like a normal teenager with a hoodie and pants. But in the last two years, I completely switched in another direction: '70s suits and stuff like that.
DD Before playing in the band, I used to play basketball. I was into sports.
VA In the beginning I encouraged the guys to be more crazy. I remember the first time we were all together at my house playing, and they were like, "Oh, maybe it would be cool to wear eyeliner, but maybe it's too crazy."' And I was like: "No, let's do it. Who cares?" At first they just needed that courage. But then when we were in it, they all started having so much fun with it, and we all developed together. It was like we were building this image in our head of who we wanted to be and what we wanted to do.
How did it change over time?
DD When we were busking on the streets, we had to make ourselves visible, to make ourselves loud, to attract people. So I think that's sort of where it started.
TR We used to go to vintage shops and buy things and put together as many things as possible. We were kind of peacocks working for the crowd. I remember finding this cool leather jacket I still have in my wardrobe.
ET Vintage stores and also the Sunday street market, where you start at, like, 5 a.m.
VA When we went on the Italian "X Factor" in 2017, it was a big change. We had access to all these crazy costumes and clothes. That's when we started being more daring, with latex, more revealing, even if we had very bad taste at the time. Being conservative has always pissed us off quite a lot. So it was a message saying, "OK, this is who we are, and we don't care if you're going to criticize." Then, when we started working with Gucci, it brought us to another level, and we had the chance to create so many specific looks. We were able to really set our creativity free.
What do you look for in what you wear onstage?
DD I like simple shapes. I think it's mainly because I have to sing, so my chest and belly have to move because otherwise I run out of oxygen. How I dress reflects the kind of person I am because there are more things I don't like than things I like. And that's why my wardrobe is just four colors. That's exactly how I live my life. I like four to 10 people and four colors: black, white, brown and military green. Nothing else.
ET I just like to be naked.
TR The way I dress is very connected to how I feel. If you play a ballad wearing all this kinky stuff, it's not going to be very comfortable. If I have to write music, I have to be dressed in a certain way because I want different vibes.
VA With Gucci, we design our clothes together. So we really had the chance to come out with a lot of ideas, with all our references and bands we love. We wanted to speak up and blend all these lines of what's considered feminine or masculine, gender norms and stereotypes on the body, especially the woman's body being so much more sexualized. We played the V.M.A.s, and there was this big scandal for my nipples coming out, even though Damiano's butt was literally naked and all the boys were shirtless. The best part is when people tell us: "You gave me the courage to dress the way I wanted. Before I was like too ashamed."
DD It's about freedom. What Gucci did was kind of break the rules about this collection is for women, so only women can wear it, and this is how you have to build an outfit and blah blah, blah, blah, blah. We feel it really relates to what we're trying to do with our music.
What is the contractual situation with Gucci right now?
DD No comment. We can't talk about our contract!
Can you ever imagine designing your own collection?
VA We get a lot of proposals to make our own collections, and that would be very fun to do someday. We also think it's really nice to give smaller and independent brands the chance to collaborate and do fun stuff with us.
TR Today I want to wear more '90s inspiration -- very baggy suits and trousers.
VA I think we are going to change and develop. But not something drastic. Just day by day, and then when you look back, you're like, "OK, it was very different then."
This conversation has been condensed and edited for clarity.
Photograph Maneskin dressed in Gucci. From left, Thomas Raggi, Victoria De Angelis, Damiano David and Ethan Torchio. Below, from left: busking on the streets of Rome in 2018; from the band's faux wedding. Bottom, at the screening of "Elvis" at the Cannes Film Festival in 2022. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUIDO GAZZILLI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MANESKIN; VITTORIO ZUNINO CELOTTO/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D5.

Subject: Fashion; Celebrities

Title: Taking Chances With Their Look:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 26, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2769504160

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taking-chances-with-their-look/docview/2769504160/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Heart Motif Will Go On: [Style Desk]

Author: Meltzer, Marisa

Publication info: Meltzer, Marisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heart-motif-will-go-on/docview/2769504144/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Either way, you can't escape them.
Don't search for heart-shaped rings on the internet. It leads you to a series of failed celebrity romances and presumably to a trail of tears: Lady Gaga and Taylor Kinney, Gwen Stefani and Gavin Rossdale, Nicki Minaj and Meek Mill.
As a design element, the heart is more like dots or stripes than it is a visual shorthand for romantic love. If you want romance, try lace or oysters or dead-stock midcentury Valentine's Day cards or inside jokes engraved on the back of a Swiss-made watch.
Hearts can feel bold and fresh: Think the boxy black Supreme shirt with red heart prints that Timothée Chalamet wore on a late-night talk show several years ago. (If that fact excites you, follow @readytimmywear on Instagram.) Another way to wear your heart on your sleeve would be a Nirvana "Heart-Shaped Box" allover print tee, recently going for four digits on Etsy.
To add just a little heart to your life, try a Deborah Pagani heart-shaped hair pin for Gucci Westman or a Blumarine belt with a heart-shaped buckle. Loewe has sunglasses with heart-shaped lenses, and like everything Jonathan Anderson designs, they're surreal enough that you can feel safe that no one will mistake you for paying homage to Kubrick's "Lolita." You might try to track down some of Chanel's chunkier costume jewelry with hearts. On the RealReal, you can find things like a red Chanel blouse with a black bow and a quilted heart from the Karl Lagerfeld years.
Even if you don't celebrate Valentine's Day, here are some hearts for the romantics and pragmatists alike.
Tiffany & Company
Hearts can lean a little bit cutesy, even skewing twee. If you'd rather die alone than give someone a candy heart, or are the kind of person who hates anything sweet (literal or figurative), try this jade pendant with an 18-karat gold mesh chain from the Elsa Peretti Open Heart collection for Tiffany. It's sexy and just a tad louche. The fresh green of the jade contrasts so well with the slinky 28-inch chain. Wear it with a beat-up vintage denim shirt buttoned so low even Bernard-Henri Lévy would blush. ( $ 4,900)
Alaïa
Remember when Rihanna wore that Yves Saint Laurent heart-shaped fur in 2016? Or maybe you bought the Erin Fetherston for Target heart-shaped bag in 2007? I was just doing some shopping reconnaissance and came across Alaïa's Le Cœur bag. It's small enough not to look gimmicky, but large enough to actually carry necessities. The shade of red is the right balance of cool and warm. Or you might consider a less obvious gold or blue one that comes on a gold chain. (from $ 1,170)
Yves Saint Laurent
No one understood the use of hearts as a design tool like Yves Saint Laurent, who drew them a little asymmetrical and off kilter. Re-See, the Paris-based designer resale site, has the best selection around, particularly the jewelry Robert Goossens designed for YSL. While you're browsing, there's a gold heart brooch with "Yves Saint Laurent" printed on it in script -- brooches are about to get big again -- that would look great on a man. But the coolest present would be a poster from 1989, said to be "from the private collection of one of Saint Laurent's most loyal collaborators." Bonus: It's framed. (2,100 euros, or about $ 2,300)
Stephen Dweck
Stellene Volandes, the editor in chief of Town & Country, who knows a lot about jewelry, said she was "a heart-jewelry skeptic for years" but is now drawn to them, pointing to lines like Foundrae and Briony Raymond. In that same vein, the jeweler Stephen Dweck, who used to design for Geoffrey Beene, makes the most decadent pair of earrings. You know when people ask you what your love language is? Here's mine: "Pink Tourmaline, Conch Shell and Diamond Earrings in 18K Gold." ( $ 28,865)
Paco Rabanne
A hood made of linked metal hearts looks like something you'd see in the armor section of the Met, but also like something the model Pat Cleveland would have worn to a club in the 1970s. (€650, or about $ 700)
Mondo Mondo
Hearts were big in the late 1980s, with bold, unapologetically big jewelry from Christian Lacroix or Chanel or Yves Saint Laurent. Natasha Ghosn, the designer of the Los Angeles jewelry-fragrance-candle line Mondo Mondo, may be the real heir to that aesthetic. So it's not surprising that she has a lot of heart motifs. This necklace looks like a piece of jewelry a scorned woman in a Jackie Collins novel would have ripped off her neck and thrown out a window after being betrayed by her man. It comes in silver and gold plate, but the silver feels a little less obvious and little more tender. ( $ 250)
Photograph This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Design; Jewelry; Gold; Heart

People: Saint Laurent, Yves

Company / organization: Name: Yves Saint Laurent; NAICS: 325620

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/25/style/heart-accessories-love-them-or-hate-them.html

Title: The Heart Motif Will Go On:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 26, 2023

column: Shop Monster

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2769504144

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heart-motif-will-go-on/docview/2769504144/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Joy of Dressing Like a Rock God

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/joy-dressing-like-rock-god/docview/2769408738/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Four days before they arrived in New York, just after their third album release and just before their Grammy’s close-up and the next leg of their world tour, the four members of Maneskin, the Italian band with a Danish name that won global recognition after winning Eurovision in 2021, were married in Rome. To one another.
They all wore white: Singer Damiano David, 24, a double-breasted tuxedo, vest and hoop earrings; bassist Victoria De Angelis, 22, a lace veil, draped top, trousers and opera gloves; drummer Ethan Torchio, 22, a full skirt, lace halter, tulle veil and more gloves; and guitarist Thomas Raggi, 22, a white top hat and long coat.
They all carried bouquets of blood red roses. Machine Gun Kelly was in the audience; so was director Baz Luhrmann.
Alessandro Michele, the former creative director of Gucci, officiated in “the name of Apollo, Elvis and Jimmy Page” — not to mention global promotion for all involved. (They aren’t polyamorous, just best friends.) And thus was the relationship between fashion and rock consecrated yet again.
To be fair, this was no rush to the altar (even if “Rush!” is the name of Maneskin’s new album). The two industries have been hot ’n’ heavy over each other for decades, but rarely has a young band used fashion to amplify and extend its message with quite as much eye-popping cheer as Maneskin. From the time it burst onto the global scene in Rotterdam, Netherlands, in metallic burgundy leather lace-up Etro, looking like the love children of Jimi Hendrix and Abba and belting out “Zitti e Buono,” the band has become synonymous with a particularly kind of gleeful rock god get-up.
That is in part because of its yearlong ubiquity: more than 6.5 billion streams on Spotify; playing Coachella, “Saturday Night Live” and the #StandUpForUkraine campaign; opening for the Rolling Stones; collaborating with Iggy Pop and with Tom Morello of Rage Against the Machine; contributing a song to the “Elvis” soundtrack; and performing at the MTV Video Music Awards, where the band was nominated for three awards, won one and De Angelis experienced a wardrobe malfunction during their performance that became something of a viral cause célèbre.
And thanks to working with Michele, who gave the Maneskin quartet a hot mess of a wardrobe inspired by rock icons past: chaps and leather G-strings, sequins and grommets and dog collars and pearls; velvets and feathers and ’70s flares (and a tendency to take it all off the more heated things become). In a world where the greatest musical image-makers generally sprinkle their favors across the fashion landscape — hello, Beyoncé — they may be the best argument for commitment between brand and band since David Bowie hooked up with Kansai Yamamoto.
Now, however, Michele — who once described his relationship with Maneskin by saying, “When we finally met, it was like when you have sex for the first time with the person you like and you say, ‘It was obvious that we were going to make love in an extraordinary way’” — has departed Gucci. The new album is about the darker side of fame; they know the honeymoon period can’t last forever.
The band, which has been playing together since they were teenagers and still talks like kids lounging around a basement at home, spent some time ruminating on clothes, music and what happens next. (This conversation has been condensed and edited for clarity.)
Q: Does it surprise you that your clothes have become such a talking point?
VICTORIA DE ANGELIS: What we’re doing is very different from what is the norm in Italy or how Italy is often represented. So I think somehow it’s making a big impact whether people like it or not.
DAMIANO DAVID: Our clothes are like a billboard that says: “We are here. Look at us.” It’s a way to make ourselves and our message more readable and more impactful. We always had the view that to make it, we had to take care of the whole 360 — not just the music but how we look and how we use social media and how we play, what we play, where we play. Our attitude.
Q: So you dressed like this from the beginning?
VA: I think it’s something that has helped us develop our personalities as a way to empower ourselves. Especially growing up in Rome in the neighborhood where we grew up. It’s very conservative. In high school everyone looked at us like we were freaks because we were playing and dressed up weirdly. If you go to London or Berlin, no one cares what you’re wearing. But in Rome, if you walk on the street, boys wearing makeup or stuff like that, everyone is looking like you’re the devil.
THOMAS RAGGI: The first time we met Ethan was really hippie, braids, tie-dye, socks, sandals.
ETHAN TORCHIO: Rainbows. I liked a lot of rainbows.
VA: I had different phases. I went through, like, a punk and dark gothic phase, and then I was very hippie and then just very camp, very eccentric. Lot of colors and stuff.
TR: I discovered style in general really late. At the beginning I was like a normal teenager with a hoodie and pants. But in the last two years, I completely switched in another direction: ’70s suits and stuff like that.
DD: Before playing in the band, I used to play basketball. I was into sports.
VA: In the beginning I encouraged the guys to be more crazy. I remember the first time we were all together at my house playing, and they were like, “Oh, maybe it would be cool to wear eyeliner, but maybe it’s too crazy.’” And I was like: “No, let’s do it. Who cares?” At first they just needed that courage. But then when we were in it, they all started having so much fun with it, and we all developed together. It was like we were building this image in our head of who we wanted to be and what we wanted to do.
Q: How did it change over time?
DD: When we were busking on the streets, we had to make ourselves visible, to make ourselves loud, to attract people. So I think that’s sort of where it started.
TR: We used to go to vintage shops and buy things and put together as many things as possible. We were kind of peacocks working for the crowd. I remember finding this cool leather jacket I still have in my wardrobe.
ET: Vintage stores and also the Sunday street market, where you start at, like, 5 a.m.
VA: When we went on the Italian “X Factor” in 2017, it was a big change. We had access to all these crazy costumes and clothes. That’s when we started being more daring, with latex, more revealing, even if we had very bad taste at the time. Being conservative has always pissed us off quite a lot. So it was a message saying, “OK, this is who we are, and we don’t care if you’re going to criticize.” Then, when we started working with Gucci, it brought us to another level, and we had the chance to create so many specific looks. We were able to really set our creativity free.
Q: What do you look for in what you wear onstage?
DD: I like simple shapes. I think it’s mainly because I have to sing, so my chest and belly have to move because otherwise I run out of oxygen. How I dress reflects the kind of person I am because there are more things I don’t like than things I like. And that’s why my wardrobe is just four colors. That’s exactly how I live my life. I like four to 10 people and four colors: black, white, brown and military green. Nothing else.
ET: I just like to be naked.
TR: The way I dress is very connected to how I feel. If you play a ballad wearing all this kinky stuff, it’s not going to be very comfortable. If I have to write music, I have to be dressed in a certain way because I want different vibes.
VA: With Gucci, we design our clothes together. So we really had the chance to come out with a lot of ideas, with all our references and bands we love. We wanted to speak up and blend all these lines of what’s considered feminine or masculine, gender norms and stereotypes on the body, especially the woman’s body being so much more sexualized. We played the VMAs, and there was this big scandal for my nipples coming out, even though Damiano’s butt was literally naked and all the boys were shirtless. The best part is when people tell us: “You gave me the courage to dress the way I wanted. Before I was like too ashamed.”
DD: It’s about freedom. What Gucci did was kind of break the rules about this collection is for women, so only women can wear it, and this is how you have to build an outfit and blah blah, blah, blah, blah. We feel it really relates to what we’re trying to do with our music.
Q: What is the contractual situation with Gucci right now?
DD: No comment. We can’t talk about our contract!
Q: Can you ever imagine designing your own collection?
VA: We get a lot of proposals to make our own collections, and that would be very fun to do someday. We also think it’s really nice to give smaller and independent brands the chance to collaborate and do fun stuff with us.
TR: Today I want to wear more ’90s inspiration — very baggy suits and trousers.
VA: I think we are going to change and develop. But not something drastic. Just day by day, and then when you look back, you’re like, “OK, it was very different then.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Clothing; Bands; Nominations; Musical performances

Location: Italy; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Knowles, Beyonce; Hendrix, Jimi; Rotterdam (Netherlands); Rage Against The Machine (Music Group); Rolling Stones; Bowie, David; Mtv Networks; Friedman, Vanessa V; Spotify; Netherlands; Etro Spa; Billboard (Magazine); Denmark; Morello, Tom; Torchio, Ethan; De Angelis, Victoria (2000 ); Raggi, Thomas; Italy; Luhrmann, Baz; Pop, Iggy; Rome (Italy); Michele, Alessandro; Abba (Music Group); Maneskin (Music Group); Baker, Colson (Machine Gun Kelly); David, Damiano; Elvis (Movie); Presley, Elvis; Rush! (Album); Gucci; Yamamoto, Kansai (1944 2020); Names, Personal; Coachella Valley Music And Arts Festival; Eurovision Song Contest; Dresses; Classical Music; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Street Performers; Grammy Awards; Mtv Video Music Awards; Music; Fashion And Apparel

Title: The Joy of Dressing Like a Rock God

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-25 @ 17:22

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2769408738

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/joy-dressing-like-rock-god/docview/2769408738/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Baltimore Museum of Art Chooses New Director: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Sheets, Hilarie M

Publication info: Sheets, Hilarie M. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/baltimore-museum-art-chooses-new-director/docview/2768944221/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Asma Naeem, raised in Baltimore, will lead the city's pre-eminent art museum as it faces unionization and equity efforts.
The Baltimore Museum of Art announced Tuesday that Asma Naeem, its chief curator since 2018 and interim co-director, will become director effective Feb. 1.
Born in Karachi, Pakistan, and raised in Baltimore, Naeem practiced law for almost 15 years before switching careers and finishing her Ph.D. in American art. She becomes the first person of color to lead the museum, founded in 1914, and will oversee its collection of more than 97,000 objects and an annual operating budget of $ 23 million.
Naeem, 53, has been interim co-director of the museum since Christopher Bedford, the former director, left last June for the top post at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Naeem had a central role in shaping and implementing the Baltimore Museum's strategic plan, adopted in 2018, that placed social equity alongside artistic excellence as a core principle guiding the museum's mission. Since then, the B.M.A., as it is known locally, has been at the forefront of efforts to acquire and exhibit work by underrepresented artists and to diversify its staff, board and audiences -- issues being addressed by museums nationwide to varying degrees.
"We were most impressed with how Asma has been part of the work and with her vision for the institution, in terms of how to build on this work and take us to that next level," said James D. Thornton, chairman of the museum's board, which promoted Naeem after a 10-month national search.
"We are committed to being more relevant as an institution, as an anchor in our city," he added. "Asma grew up in Baltimore. She has a great pulse on the region and clearly our city, which just gave her an edge over other candidates that were in consideration for the opportunity."
Naeem said in a phone interview that her ability to "hit the ground running" and nurture existing relationships with both staff and community stakeholders is an advantage in her new job. "I want to promote the dazzling artists who live and work here," she said. "We have a vibrant community that I think can be better supported and whose voices can be amplified through the museum platform."
As chief curator, Naeem has been dedicated to bringing work by neglected historical and contemporary women and artists of color into the museum's permanent collection -- a goal she also set in her curatorial work from 2014 to 2018 at the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery in Washington. In Baltimore, she organized solo shows of international artists including Candice Breitz, Isaac Julien, Valerie Maynard and Salman Toor, and was instrumental in last year's groundbreaking exhibition "Guarding the Art," for which 17 members of the museum's security staff served as guest curators and received professional development.
Naeem's upcoming project, "The Culture: Hip Hop and Contemporary Art in the 21st Century," opening April 5, places fashion and objects by Lil' Kim, Virgil Abloh, Dapper Dan and Gucci in conversation with works by fine artists such as Derrick Adams, Mark Bradford, Lauren Halsey and Julie Mehretu.
"The ways in which we can readily relate to so many of our audience members, who are moved by hip-hop or aspects of their own culture that they don't always see reflected in museum programming, is of vital importance to me," Naeem said.
She remembered feeling a combination of awe and intimidation on her own first visit to her hometown museum as an undergraduate at the neighboring Johns Hopkins University, where she majored in art history and political science. She went on to get a law degree from Temple University in 1995, focusing on domestic violence while working for the Manhattan district attorney's office. In 2000 she began prosecuting ethics allegations against lawyers at the Office of Bar Counsel (now called the Office of Disciplinary Counsel) in Washington, an arm of the D.C. Court of Appeals.
She found "trying to right the wrongs of the world" through the legal system to be draining, however, and began a career shift. "Art history, as well as the civic space of the museum, offered a kind of limitless combination of how to shape a public good," said Naeem, who received a master's degree in art history from American University in 2003 and a Ph.D. from the University of Maryland in 2011 while continuing to work in law and raise three children with her husband, Babar Shafiq, an orthopedic surgeon.
One of Naeem's top priorities in her new job will be helping the museum regain visitors lost during the Covid-19 closure. In the 2023 fiscal year the B.M.A. expects to reach 75 percent of its pre-Covid attendance. Other priorities include the retention and compensation of museum staff, who voted last summer to form a union, part of a wave of unionizing efforts at museums across the country. Thornton, the board chairman, said that the museum's leadership has met three times with the union's negotiating team.
"Asma's obviously close to people across the institution that have felt they needed a union, and her past legal experience will be helpful to us as we continue to work through a collective bargaining agreement," he said.
In 2020, the museum's leadership pulled back from selling three of its blue-chip paintings for $ 65 million, funds largely intended to create an endowment for better salaries. Current and former museum directors had criticized this plan to use funds from the sale of art, known as de-accessioning, for operating costs rather than for acquisitions and the direct care of the collection, in keeping with the Association of Art Museum Directors' guidelines. Thornton said this experience underscored the importance of fund-raising by Naeem and the board to accomplish the institution's lofty salary goals.
Naeem said her skills as a lawyer and her decades in public service will help her as director. "I enjoy bringing people to the table who have perhaps oppositional viewpoints," she said, "and helping them arrive at a mutually beneficial outcome."
Photograph Above, Asma Naeem, who had practiced law for almost 15 years before switching careers. Left, Salman Toor's "No Ordinary Love" installation at the Baltimore Museum of Art in 2022. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER MYERS; MITRO HOOD) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Artists; Art history; Labor contracts; Collective bargaining; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Labor contracts Collective bargaining Wages & salaries

Location: Baltimore Maryland; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Baltimore Museum of Art; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/24/arts/design/baltimore-museum-director-asma-naeem.html

Title: Baltimore Museum of Art Chooses New Director:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 25, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--U nited States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2768944221

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/baltimore-museum-art-chooses-new-director/docview/2768944221/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Baltimore Museum of Art Taps Its Chief Curator as Its Next Director

Author: Sheets, Hilarie M

Publication info: Sheets, Hilarie M. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/baltimore-museum-art-taps-chief-curator-as-next/docview/2768822402/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The Baltimore Museum of Art announced Tuesday that Asma Naeem, its chief curator since 2018 and interim co-director, will become director effective Feb. 1.
Born in Karachi, Pakistan, and raised in Baltimore, Naeem practiced law for almost 15 years before switching careers and finishing her doctorate in American art. She becomes the first person of color to lead the museum, founded in 1914, and will oversee its collection of more than 97,000 objects and an annual operating budget of $23 million.
Naeem, 53, has been interim co-director of the museum since Christopher Bedford, the former director, left in June for the top post at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Naeem had a central role in shaping and implementing the Baltimore museum’s strategic plan, adopted in 2018, that placed social equity alongside artistic excellence as a core principle guiding the museum’s mission. Since then, the BMA, as it is known locally, has been at the forefront of efforts to acquire and exhibit work by underrepresented artists and to diversify its staff, board and audiences — issues being addressed by museums nationwide to varying degrees.
“We were most impressed with how Asma has been part of the work and with her vision for the institution, in terms of how to build on this work and take us to that next level,” said James D. Thornton, chair of the museum’s board, which promoted Naeem after a 10-month national search.
“We are committed to being more relevant as an institution, as an anchor in our city,” he added. “Asma grew up in Baltimore. She has a great pulse on the region and clearly our city, which just gave her an edge over other candidates that were in consideration for the opportunity.”
Naeem said in a phone interview that her ability to “hit the ground running” and nurture existing relationships with both staff and community stakeholders is an advantage in her new job. “I want to promote the dazzling artists who live and work here,” she said. “We have a vibrant community that I think can be better supported and whose voices can be amplified through the museum platform.”
As chief curator, Naeem has been dedicated to bringing work by neglected historical and contemporary women and artists of color into the museum’s permanent collection — a goal she also set in her curatorial work from 2014 to 2018 at the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery in Washington. In Baltimore, she organized solo shows of international artists including Candice Breitz, Isaac Julien, Valerie Maynard and Salman Toor, and was instrumental in last year’s groundbreaking exhibition “Guarding the Art,” for which 17 members of the museum’s security staff served as guest curators and received professional development.
Naeem’s upcoming project, “The Culture: Hip Hop and Contemporary Art in the 21st Century,” opening April 5, places fashion and objects by Lil’ Kim, Virgil Abloh, Dapper Dan and Gucci in conversation with works by fine artists such as Derrick Adams, Mark Bradford, Lauren Halsey and Julie Mehretu.
“The ways in which we can readily relate to so many of our audience members, who are moved by hip-hop or aspects of their own culture that they don’t always see reflected in museum programming, is of vital importance to me,” Naeem said.
She remembered feeling a combination of awe and intimidation on her own first visit to her hometown museum as an undergraduate at neighboring Johns Hopkins University, where she majored in art history and political science. She went on to get a law degree from Temple University in 1995, focusing on domestic violence while working for the Manhattan district attorney’s office. In 2000 she began prosecuting ethics allegations against lawyers at the Office of Bar Counsel (now called the Office of Disciplinary Counsel) in Washington, an arm of the D.C. Court of Appeals.
She found “trying to right the wrongs of the world” through the legal system to be draining, however, and began a career shift. “Art history, as well as the civic space of the museum, offered a kind of limitless combination of how to shape a public good,” said Naeem, who received a master’s degree in art history from American University in 2003 and a doctorate from the University of Maryland in 2011 while continuing to work in law and raise three children with her husband, Babar Shafiq, an orthopedic surgeon.
One of Naeem’s top priorities in her new job will be helping the museum regain visitors lost during the COVID-19 closure. In the 2023 fiscal year the BMA expects to reach 75% of its pre-COVID attendance. Other priorities include the retention and compensation of museum staff, who voted last summer to form a union, part of a wave of unionizing efforts at museums across the country. Thornton, the board chair, said that the museum’s leadership has met three times with the union’s negotiating team.
“Asma’s obviously close to people across the institution that have felt they needed a union, and her past legal experience will be helpful to us as we continue to work through a collective bargaining agreement,” he said.
In 2020, the museum’s leadership pulled back from selling three of its blue-chip paintings for $65 million, funds largely intended to create an endowment for better salaries. Current and former museum directors had criticized the plan to use funds from the sale of art, known as de-accessioning, for operating costs rather than for acquisitions and the direct care of the collection, in keeping with the Association of Art Museum Directors’ guidelines. Thornton said the experience underscored the importance of fundraising by Naeem and the board to accomplish the institution’s salary goals.
Naeem said her skills as a lawyer and her decades in public service will help her as director. “I enjoy bringing people to the table who have perhaps oppositional viewpoints,” she said, “and helping them arrive at a mutually beneficial outcome.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Artists; Curators; Art history; Labor contracts; Collective bargaining; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Labor contracts Collective bargaining Wages & salaries

Location: Baltimore Maryland; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Baltimore Museum of Art; NAICS: 712110

Identifier / keyword: Entertainment; Arts; Adams, Derrick (Artist); San Francisco Museum Of Modern Art; Lil' Kim; Maryland; Johns Hopkins University; Smithsonian Institution; San Francisco (Calif); Pakistan; Sheets, Hilarie M; Karachi (Pakistan); Assn Of Art Museum Directors; University Of Maryland; Gucci; Hardy, Damion (World); Bradford, Mark (1961 ); American University; Julien, Isaac; Washington (Dc); Abloh, Virgil; Halsey, Lauren (Artist); Breitz, Candice; National Portrait Gallery (Washington, Dc); Day, Daniel (Dapper Dan); Toor, Salman (1983 ); Baltimore Museum Of Art; Juwan, Naeem; Baltimore (Md); Naeem, Asma; Mehretu, Julie; Bedford, Christopher; Culture (Arts); Hiring And Promotion; Security And Warning Systems; Domestic Violence; Federal Budget (Us); Wages And Salaries; Fashion And Apparel; Collective Bargaining; Labor And Jobs; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Beer; Doctors; Real Estate (Commercial); Graduate Schools And Students; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Elections; Careers And Professions; Legal Profession; Organized Labor; Colleges And Universities; Boards Of Directors; Names, Organizational; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Art; Appointments And Executive Changes; Finances

Title: Baltimore Museum of Art Taps Its Chief Curator as Its Next Director

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-24 @ 18:08

Publisher: New Yor k Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2768822402

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/baltimore-museum-art-taps-chief-curator-as-next/docview/2768822402/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On Milan's Streets, It's Pink All Over: [Editorial]

Author: Cha, Simbarashe

Publication info: Cha, Simbarashe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-milans-streets-pink-all-over/docview/2767530941/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: MILAN -- Spotting people in bright colors is always a thrill. Outside the latest round of men's shows, which started on Friday and wrapped up earlier this week, dressing vibrantly seemed to be the law of the land.
Bold floral prints and embroidered flowers covered jackets, shirts and trousers. Pink, a color I'd see occasionally in years past, was seemingly inescapable, brightening up lots of outfits as well as the occasional head of hair. There was also green hair, a look that Jeremy Sochan of the San Antonio Spurs debuted last month -- about 30 years after Dennis Rodman did it while he was playing for the Spurs. Mr. Rodman, as it happens, was also a fan of gender fluid dressing, which in recent years has only become more ubiquitous on the street. I hope this trend continues.
Photograph On the streets of Milan during the men's wear shows this month. Above, clockwise from right: pink hair outside the Gucci show; a pink balaclava outside the Jordanluca show; bold color blocking at Gucci; a mixed vintage ensemble outside the Simon Cracker show. Right and center, a pink flower and -- surprise! -- green hair at Gucci; below, outside the Prada show, where K-pop fans gathered for a chance to glimpse the boy band Enhypen.; From top: shorts and knee-high socks under an overcoat outside the Etro show; denim with pink trim outside the Prada show. Above from left: more pink, outside the MSGM show; more pink hair, at Prada; a statement cardigan outside MSGM. Left, a pink earring almost hidden outside Prada. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMBARASHE CHA) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Color; Fashion; Fashion shows

Location: Italy; Milan Italy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/19/style/mens-fashion-week-milan.html

Title: On Milan's Streets, It's Pink All Over:   [Editorial ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

column: Style Outside

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodical s--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2767530941

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-milans-streets-pink-all-over/docview/2767530941/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Old-World Style and New Media Converge in Milan: [Style Desk]

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/old-world-style-new-media-converge-milan/docview/2766605844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Old-world style and new media converged during the men's fashion shows in Milan
MILAN -- It is nearly 72 years since Giovanni Battista Giorgini, a descendant of an old Florentine family, telephoned a group of American buyers attending the spring haute couture shows in Paris and invited them to attend a fashion show in his home.
Five accepted. They were the Seventh Avenue designer Hannah Troy and the buyers for B. Altman and Bergdorf Goodman of New York, I. Magnin of San Francisco and Morgan's of Montreal. So successful was Giorgini's experiment that the shows were soon moved to the Pitti Palace, attendance grew by exponents and the cornerstone of a postwar Italian fashion industry was laid.
It is doubtful Giorgini could have imagined that seven decades later, Italian fashion shows would attract thousands of guests, an equivalent number of press and mobs clamoring for glimpses of fashion show attendees like the members of the K-pop boy band Enhypen.
As much as any trend or runway spectacle (or personnel guessing game; we see you, Gucci), it is the continuity of Giorgini's vision that struck an observer this week and how durable and robust Italy's claim on fashion primacy remains.
A case in point was the Fendi show on Saturday. Held at the company's headquarters, on a set that featured a suspended Rube Goldberg contraption, Silvia Venturini Fendi's men's wear presentation could have served as a mission statement for why Italian design still matters. It is not wildly overstating things to say that the designer took on some of the more harassing cultural anxieties -- principally about gender and safety -- and cloaked them in garments that, while they revealed the male body in an unorthodox manner (one-shouldered sweaters, for instance), simultaneously enveloped it in shapes that were swaddling, protective and unabashedly luxurious.
There were sleek gray woolen greatcoats that swept to the ground. There were fringed capes that called to mind a Fendi rendition of the ancient Venetian tabarro cloak. There were, of course, the various bags and intricately treated hide garments associated with a label established in Rome in 1925 as a leather goods shop. More deep rooted, though, were allusions to a discreetly assured manner, a kind of grandpacore typical of the Milanese bourgeoisie and that has attracted the attention of street-style photographers like Scott Schuman of The Sartorialist.
You won't often see the two labels mentioned in the same sentence, yet if Fendi represents one face of Italianness, Dsquared is in some ways the flip side of the same coin. The twin designers Dean and Dan Caten are natives of Toronto. Yet, having lived and worked in Milan for decades, they are honorarily local and, as such, have adopted an almost stereotypically Italian style of sartorial mash-up -- exuberant, silly, rife with references and devoid of specific context.
The Caten twins talk so much about individuality that it is easy to forget how much their designs celebrate the collective teenage id. More determinedly than most, they have spent their careers rummaging around in a psychic closet where goth, emo, gamer geek and fanboy identities are jumbled in a heap.
Take the show's second look, for which the tattooed TikTok superstar JeanCarlo León, a.k.a. Jashlem, was sent strutting down the catwalk in a pink T-shirt emblazoned with a knife-wielding pussycat and the legend "Cute & Nasty," and some super-distressed jeans worn unbuttoned over a second sewn-in pair of trousers and belted with an outsize rodeo buckle. What followed was a spin-cycle of fringed Western wear, shredded denim, exposed boxers, leather jockstraps, supersize trapper hats and T-shirts that provocatively recast the world-famous soft-drink logo as Choke.
While the show was coed, it was amply supplied with lacy underthings shown primarily on cisgender men. "There's nothing hotter than a guy in girlie panties," Dan Caten remarked beforehand. And, given that a raft of maverick labels like Menagerie, Candyman Fashion and Ciciful have joined mainstream brands like Cosabella, Fleur du Mal and Savage X Fenty in cranking out frilly undergarments for those with male genitals, he may have a point.
Placeholder collections can be like emails from Human Resources: You know they contain crucial information and yet nobody reads them. Hence the first Gucci show since the unexpected November departure of Alessandro Michele, the stealth firebrand who reinvented a sagging brand and drove sales into the billions by riding a wave of gender dispersion, was deleted from consciousness almost as quickly as seen.
Like it or not, fashion needs headliners. It is not yet enough to fill the vacuum left by a star designer's departure by cramming front rows with cross-platform celebrities like Idris Elba, Nick and Susie Cave, Kai, Jalen Ramsey and the elite gamer Pow3r, hiring live bands like Marc Ribot's Ceramic Dog to perform and then presenting a studio team's crowdsourced efforts.
To be sure, there were elements of the Gucci collection to approve, if not exactly admire or covet. (Admittedly, a supersize flasher raincoat was pretty cool.) And, yes, in the show's first looks it seemed as though the brand had decided to emphasize foolproof elements of a tailoring heritage by rendering trousers and jackets and coats voluminously and pairing them with skinny shirts reminiscent of 1970s Florence.
Ultimately, and as a "reflection of the individualities represented by the multifaceted creatives and craftsman who inhabit the house of Gucci," according to the notes, the show was a semi-coherent blur of ankle boots, scarf-patched denims, sailor beanies and other products likely to reduce the interval between full-price retail and markdown at Woodbury Common.
And certain things were downright puzzling. To wit, some goofy pirate boots that forced the models to walk with an oddly mincing gait and a floor-length skirt of industrial gray wool that came with a deep slit up the front and no zipper. It is one thing to toy with gender tropes and quite another to ignore anatomy. "It's not nice to fool Mother Nature," to quote a famous '70s advertisement for Chiffon margarine.
"All my life, I've asked myself why fashion is considered so cheap and so trivial in many situations." Miuccia Prada said to Vogue Business before a show that, as so often in the career of this designer, aimed at upgrading the status of fashion in the cultural hierarchy from that of perennial stepchild.
The title of the show was "Let's Talk About Clothes," and the two designers -- Mrs. Prada and Raf Simons -- used a strict visual grammar to assemble groupings based on traditional masculine garments reduced to stark geometric shapes. Perhaps the designs were uncomfortably reminiscent of work Italo Zucchelli did at Calvin Klein before being replaced at the label by Mr. Simons. Also, where Mr. Zucchelli celebrated sexuality, the Prada models were so underdeveloped they looked as if puberty had yet to kick in.
Yet if both the casting and a collection of largely monochrome circular, tubular, conical and squarely boxy stuff (jackets, suits and coats, some single-breasted, some two-buttoned, some three-buttoned; and also parkas, MA-1 bombers and mid-calf duffle coats snug enough to be hobbling) made scant allowance for physical ease, that was doubtless part of the point. Even the suede work aprons refashioned as tunics called to mind manual laborers in an August Sander portrait. Sander's subjects (like, evidently, Mrs. Prada and also, perhaps, Mr. Simons) understood innately that, in the long sweep of history, personal comfort is a fairly novel idea.
History is seldom far from the thoughts of Giorgio Armani, who as he approaches 90, increasingly casts his thoughts backward to the Italy of his youth. "We tend to forget about so many beautiful things that have been done," Mr. Armani said Monday before the V.I.P. presentation whose guests included Ed Westwick, James Norton and the "White Lotus" hunk Theo James.
Seated on a stage created inside the palazzo where he lives in center city, Mr. Armani tented his hands and gestured toward a set suggestive of the marmoreal elegance characteristic of entrance halls constructed throughout the city from the 1920s to the 1970s.
Increasingly, in recent years, Armani shows revisit a style of dress that is rich, quiet and evocative of a metropolis as staid as it is elegant. Not for the Milanese or Mr. Armani the exuberance of southern Italy. Here, women of a certain age and class still hold to a singsong Italian adage that translates as "a low heel, a dab of makeup and a string of pearls."
It is not an Instagram-friendly way of dressing, and so the shows can sometimes feel like looking at old Kodachrome slides -- all those eight-button jackets, nubby tweeds, woolen shawls and belted overcoats. (It hardly helps that his models move at the speed of molasses.) Despite that, there is a distinct pleasure to be experienced by relaxing into the pace of a designer who, above all, stands for continuity -- the "OG of OGs," as one wag remarked.
It is a bit like having a tisane at a traditional confectionery shop like Marchesi, founded in 1824, with a relative whose sense of style, correctness and propriety are firmly rooted in the past. Keep your trashy TikTok and your visually noisome Instagram feed, Mr. Armani often seems to be saying. Take a walk around this ancient city and value what came before.
"With beauty you can touch something eternal," he said.
Photograph Comfort, luxuriance, safety were watchwords on the fall 2023 Fendi runway, top and above center. Clockwise from top left are looks from Prada, Giorgio Armani, Dsquared2 and Gucci. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR VIRGILE/GAMMA-RAPHO, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Design; Fashion shows; Gender; Designers

Location: Italy

Company / organization: Name: Fendi; NAICS: 334519, 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/17/style/milan-mens.html

Title: Old-World Style and New Media Converge in Milan:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 19, 2023

column: Fashion Review

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766605844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/old-world-style-new-media-converge-milan/docview/2766605844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Layer by Layer, Dressing Up a Story in Convincing Attire: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layer-dressing-up-story-convincing-attire/docview/2766605837/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: George Santos used fashion to flout the rules.
There is a scene at the beginning of "The Talented Mr. Ripley," the 1999 film adaptation of the Patricia Highsmith book, in which Tom Ripley, the young man who becomes one of fiction's greatest fakers, borrows a Princeton jacket from a friend to sit in for the piano player at a ritzy garden party. From that assumed finery, an entire novel's worth of cons are born.
It's not unlike Frank Abagnale shrugging on a PanAm pilot's uniform in "Catch Me If You Can" to convince the watching world he is a pilot, or Anna Sorokin, a.k.a. Anna Delvey, the fake heiress of recent grift, swanning through New York society in Celine sunglasses and Gucci sandals. Or even Elizabeth Holmes assuming the black turtleneck of Steve Jobs, and with it his mystique.
Throughout history, the greatest grifters have understood that dressing the part is half the game. And so it has been with George Santos, the Republican congressman representing parts of Long Island and Queens, who has been unmasked as having fabricated pretty much his entire résumé in his quest to get elected, potentially committing campaign finance fraud in the process.
Why, people keep asking, did it take so long for his lies to be revealed? Why did no one think to poke deeper? Why did the people who did know something fishy was going on not speak up?
In part because he just looked so darn convincing.
He went to Horace Mann, Baruch and N.Y.U. and came from money? Behold, the uniform of preppy private-school boys everywhere: the button-up white shirt, crew-neck sweater (most often in the old-school colors of periwinkle and gray), blue blazer and khaki trousers, like something straight out of "Dead Poets Society."
He was a financier, who had worked at Citigroup and Goldman Sachs? Lo, the three-quarter zip sweater and fleece (or fleece-like) vest, uniform of bankers everywhere. Just consider the last six seasons of "Billions."
He went deep into the costume department of the popular culture hive mind and built his cover story layer by layer, garment by garment.
He may wear suits sometimes, but it is the sweaters, in their various permutations, that have been the telling detail, along with the horn-rimmed glasses -- visual shorthand, in pretty much every medium, for intellectual. Both are props that push the buttons of stereotype buried in our subconscious. We are so much more likely to believe a story if it is embedded in the codes we expect, dress code being among the first.
Yes, it's a cliché. That doesn't mean it isn't effective. Clothes are the camouflage that gets you in the door. Especially in a world in which the line between visual truth and fiction is increasingly filtered.
It would not be surprising then, that Mr. Santos is alleged to have bought hundreds of dollars worth of garments and shoes in Brazil using checks stolen from his mother's handbag. And that a former roommate claimed in The New York Post that the Burberry scarf Mr. Santos wore to a Stop the Steal rally in 2021 didn't actually belong to him but to the roommate, and Mr. Santos took it when the two men shared an apartment. That another said Mr. Santos had taken some of his dress shirts, including an Armani number. Mr. Santos clearly understood that no matter the character you are playing, what you wear tells the story.
So he dressed up his story of embodying the American dream in the fashion vernacular of archetypes. By indulging public preconceptions of how someone with his résumé should look, Mr. Santos was implicitly underscoring his own credibility.
And he is still doing it. It is not an accident that since his fabrications have been revealed, he has stuck largely to his preppy layering. See the periwinkle blue crew neck he wore over a white shirt and navy-and-white tie and under a navy suit during the House swearing-in; it's a uniform both protective and promising. One that had a Pavlovian association with words like "wholesome," "polite," "youthful," "well intentioned." It's the kind of style that conjures up images of grandmothers saying, "But he looks like such a nice boy." (He even arrived for the ceremony toting a backpack.)
Just as when writers sometimes clean up the language of interviewees to make the written statement easier to read than the spoken one -- which can often seem garbled on the page -- dressing to satisfy expectations rather than reflect everyday reality is a form of sleight of hand.
(The practice of quote amelioration became something of a cause célèbre when the psychoanalyst Jeffrey Masson sued the journalist Janet Malcolm for libel for massaging his words.)
But in fact, while bankers may love a logo fleece, it's usually one that advertises the institutions to which they belong or the invite-only conferences that they attend (Sun Valley! Davos!). Mr. Santos's version, worn mostly on the campaign trail as he was selling his myth, advertised his own candidacy.
And according to Lisa Birnbach, the author of "The Official Preppy Handbook," Mr. Santos's version of preppy style is too groomed, too layered, too contrived to be that of a genuine prepster. She said she hadn't seen a crew neck under a blazer over a tie since George Plimpton ran The Paris Review in the second half of the 20th century. Mr. Santos, she said, looks like an extra in "Family Ties," the sitcom that starred Michael J. Fox as a teenage Republican. He's trying too hard.
Some are now beginning to speculate that even the glasses are fakes, donned to complete the picture, that they don't have the distortions associated with corrective lenses.
That we should have realized, really, they were too easy to see through.
Photograph Clockwise from top: George Santos on the floor of the House of Representatives; on the campaign trail; and on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HAIYUN JIANG/THE NEW YORK TIMES; MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS; TOM BRENNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Film adaptations

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Sorokin, Anna; Santos, George

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/17/style/george-santos-style.html

Title: Layer by Layer, Dressing Up a Story in Convincing Attire:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 19, 2023

column: Unbuttoned

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766605837

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layer-dressing-up-story-convincing-attire/docview/2766605837/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Costuming of George Santos

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costuming-george-santos/docview/2766554182/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
There is a scene at the beginning of “The Talented Mr. Ripley,” the 1999 film adaptation of the Patricia Highsmith book, in which Tom Ripley, the young man who becomes one of fiction’s greatest fakers, borrows a Princeton jacket from a friend to sit in for the piano player at a ritzy garden party. From that assumed finery, an entire novel’s worth of cons are born.
It’s not unlike Frank Abagnale shrugging on a PanAm pilot’s uniform in “Catch Me If You Can” to convince the watching world he is a pilot, or Anna Sorokin, aka Anna Delvey, the fake heiress of recent grift, swanning through New York society in Celine sunglasses and Gucci sandals. Or even Elizabeth Holmes assuming the black turtleneck of Steve Jobs, and with it his mystique.
Throughout history, the greatest grifters have understood that dressing the part is half the game. And so it has been with George Santos, the Republican congressman representing parts of Long Island and Queens, who has been unmasked as having fabricated pretty much his entire résumé in his quest to get elected, potentially committing campaign finance fraud in the process.
Why, people keep asking, did it take so long for his lies to be revealed? Why did no one think to poke deeper? Why did the people who did know something fishy was going on not speak up?
In part because he just looked so darn convincing.
He went to Horace Mann, Baruch and New York University and came from money? Behold, the uniform of preppy private schoolboys everywhere: the button-up white shirt, crew-neck sweater (most often in the old-school colors of periwinkle and gray), blue blazer and khaki trousers, like something straight out of “Dead Poets Society.”
He was a financier, who had worked at Citigroup and Goldman Sachs? Lo, the three-quarter zip sweater and fleece (or fleece-like) vest, uniform of bankers everywhere. Just consider the last six seasons of “Billions.”
He went deep into the costume department of the popular culture hive mind and built his cover story layer by layer, garment by garment.
He may wear suits sometimes, but it is the sweaters, in their various permutations, that have been the telling detail, along with the horn-rimmed glasses — visual shorthand, in pretty much every medium, for intellectual. Both are props that push the buttons of stereotype buried in our subconscious. We are so much more likely to believe a story if it is embedded in the codes we expect, dress code being among the first.
Yes, it’s a cliché. That doesn’t mean it isn’t effective. Clothes are the camouflage that gets you in the door. Especially in a world in which the line between visual truth and fiction is increasingly filtered.
It would not be surprising then, that Santos is alleged to have bought hundreds of dollars worth of garments and shoes in Brazil using checks stolen from his mother’s handbag. And that a former roommate claimed in The New York Post that the Burberry scarf Santos wore to a Stop the Steal rally in 2021 didn’t actually belong to him but to the roommate, and Santos took it when the two men shared an apartment. That another said Santos had taken some of his dress shirts, including an Armani number. Santos clearly understood that no matter the character you are playing, what you wear tells the story.
So he dressed up his story of embodying the American dream in the fashion vernacular of archetypes. By indulging public preconceptions of how someone with his résumé should look, Santos was implicitly underscoring his own credibility.
And he is still doing it. It is not an accident that since his fabrications have been revealed, he has stuck largely to his preppy layering. See the periwinkle blue crew neck he wore over a white shirt and navy-and-white tie and under a navy suit during the House swearing-in; it’s a uniform both protective and promising. One that had a Pavlovian association with words like “wholesome,” “polite,” “youthful,” “well intentioned.” It’s the kind of style that conjures up images of grandmothers saying, “But he looks like such a nice boy.” (He even arrived for the ceremony toting a backpack.)
Just as when writers sometimes clean up the language of interviewees to make the written statement easier to read than the spoken one — which can often seem garbled on the page — dressing to satisfy expectations rather than reflect everyday reality is a form of sleight of hand.
(The practice of quote amelioration became something of a cause célèbre when the psychoanalyst Jeffrey Masson sued journalist Janet Malcolm for libel for massaging his words.)
But in fact, while bankers may love a logo fleece, it’s usually one that advertises the institutions to which they belong or the invite-only conferences that they attend (Sun Valley! Davos!). Santos’ version, worn mostly on the campaign trail as he was selling his myth, advertised his own candidacy.
And according to Lisa Birnbach, the author of “The Official Preppy Handbook,” Santos’ version of preppy style is too groomed, too layered, too contrived to be that of a genuine prepster. She said she hadn’t seen a crew neck under a blazer over a tie since George Plimpton ran The Paris Review in the second half of the 20th century. Santos, she said, looks like an extra in “Family Ties,” the sitcom that starred Michael J. Fox as a teenage Republican. He’s trying too hard.
Some are now beginning to speculate that even the glasses are fakes, donned to complete the picture, that they don’t have the distortions associated with corrective lenses.
That we should have realized, really, they were too easy to see through. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Political finance; Fraud; Political ethics; Lying

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; New York University; Jobs, Steven P; Sun Valley (Idaho); Burberry; Queens (Nyc); Friedman, Vanessa V; Paris Review; New York Post; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Citigroup Inc; Celine (Fashion Label); House Of Representatives; Long Island (Ny); Gucci; Horace Mann School; Sorokin, Anna (Anna Delvey); Armani, Giorgio, Spa; Highsmith, Patricia; Santos, George (1988 ); Fox, Michael J; Malcolm, Janet; The Talented Mr Ripley (Book); Birnbach, Lisa; Plimpton, George; Neck; Robberies And Thefts; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Actors And Actresses; Frauds And Swindling; Poetry And Poets; Movies; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Elections; Dress Codes; Uniforms; Books And Literature; Fashion And Apparel

Title: The Costuming of George Santos

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 18, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-18 @ 18:45

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766554182

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costuming-george-santos/docview/2766554182/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Costuming of George Santos

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costuming-george-santos/docview/2766145156/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
There is a scene at the beginning of “The Talented Mr. Ripley,” the 1999 film adaptation of the Patricia Highsmith book, in which Tom Ripley, the young man who becomes one of fiction’s greatest fakers, borrows a Princeton jacket from a friend to sit in for the piano player at a ritzy garden party. From that assumed finery, an entire novel’s worth of cons are born.
It’s not unlike Frank Abagnale shrugging on a PanAm pilot’s uniform in “Catch Me If You Can” to convince the watching world he is a pilot, or Anna Sorokin, aka Anna Delvey, the fake heiress of recent grift, swanning through New York society in Celine sunglasses and Gucci sandals. Or even Elizabeth Holmes assuming the black turtleneck of Steve Jobs, and with it his mystique.
Throughout history, the greatest grifters have understood that dressing the part is half the game. And so it has been with George Santos, the Republican congressman representing parts of Long Island and Queens, who has been unmasked as having fabricated pretty much his entire résumé in his quest to get elected, potentially committing campaign finance fraud in the process.
Why, people keep asking, did it take so long for his lies to be revealed? Why did no one think to poke deeper? Why did the people who did know something fishy was going on not speak up?
In part because he just looked so darn convincing.
He went to Horace Mann, Baruch and New York University and came from money? Behold, the uniform of preppy private schoolboys everywhere: the button-up white shirt, crew-neck sweater (most often in the old-school colors of periwinkle and gray), blue blazer and khaki trousers, like something straight out of “Dead Poets Society.”
He was a financier, who had worked at Citigroup and Goldman Sachs? Lo, the three-quarter zip sweater and fleece (or fleece-like) vest, uniform of bankers everywhere. Just consider the last six seasons of “Billions.”
He went deep into the costume department of the popular culture hive mind and built his cover story layer by layer, garment by garment.
He may wear suits sometimes, but it is the sweaters, in their various permutations, that have been the telling detail, along with the horn-rimmed glasses — visual shorthand, in pretty much every medium, for intellectual. Both are props that push the buttons of stereotype buried in our subconscious. We are so much more likely to believe a story if it is embedded in the codes we expect, dress code being among the first.
Yes, it’s a cliché. That doesn’t mean it isn’t effective. Clothes are the camouflage that gets you in the door. Especially in a world in which the line between visual truth and fiction is increasingly filtered.
It would not be surprising then, that Santos is alleged to have bought hundreds of dollars worth of garments and shoes in Brazil using checks stolen from his mother’s handbag. And that a former roommate claimed in The New York Post that the Burberry scarf Santos wore to a Stop the Steal rally in 2021 didn’t actually belong to him but to the roommate, and Santos took it when the two men shared an apartment. That another said Santos had taken some of his dress shirts, including an Armani number. Santos clearly understood that no matter the character you are playing, what you wear tells the story.
So he dressed up his story of embodying the American dream in the fashion vernacular of archetypes. By indulging public preconceptions of how someone with his résumé should look, Santos was implicitly underscoring his own credibility.
And he is still doing it. It is not an accident that since his fabrications have been revealed, he has stuck largely to his preppy layering. See the periwinkle blue crew neck he wore over a white shirt and navy-and-white tie and under a navy suit during the House swearing-in; it’s a uniform both protective and promising. One that had a Pavlovian association with words like “wholesome,” “polite,” “youthful,” “well intentioned.” It’s the kind of style that conjures up images of grandmothers saying, “But he looks like such a nice boy.” (He even arrived for the ceremony toting a backpack.)
Just as when writers sometimes clean up the language of interviewees to make the written statement easier to read than the spoken one — which can often seem garbled on the page — dressing to satisfy expectations rather than reflect everyday reality is a form of sleight of hand.
(The practice of quote amelioration became something of a cause célèbre when the psychoanalyst Jeffrey Masson sued journalist Janet Malcolm for libel for massaging his words.)
But in fact, while bankers may love a logo fleece, it’s usually one that advertises the institutions to which they belong or the invite-only conferences that they attend (Sun Valley! Davos!). Santos’ version, worn mostly on the campaign trail as he was selling his myth, advertised his own candidacy.
And according to Lisa Birnbach, the author of “The Official Preppy Handbook,” Santos’ version of preppy style is too groomed, too layered, too contrived to be that of a genuine prepster. She said she hadn’t seen a crew neck under a blazer over a tie since George Plimpton ran The Paris Review in the second half of the 20th century. Santos, she said, looks like an extra in “Family Ties,” the sitcom that starred Michael J. Fox as a teenage Republican. He’s trying too hard.
Some are now beginning to speculate that even the glasses are fakes, donned to complete the picture, that they don’t have the distortions associated with corrective lenses.
That we should have realized, really, they were too easy to see through. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Lying; Political ethics; Politicians

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; New York University; Jobs, Steven P; Sun Valley (Idaho); Burberry; Queens (Nyc); Friedman, Vanessa V; Paris Review; New York Post; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Citigroup Inc; Celine (Fashion Label); House Of Representatives; Long Island (Ny); Gucci; Horace Mann School; Sorokin, Anna (Anna Delvey); Armani, Giorgio, Spa; Highsmith, Patricia; Santos, George (1988 ); Fox, Michael J; Malcolm, Janet; The Talented Mr Ripley (Book); Birnbach, Lisa; Plimpton, George; Neck; Robberies And Thefts; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Actors And Actresses; Frauds And Swindling; Poetry And Poets; Movies; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Elections; Dress Codes; Uniforms; Books And Literature; Fashion And Apparel

Title: The Costuming of George Santos

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-17 @ 14:26

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766145156

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costuming-george-santos/docview/2766145156/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In 'M3gan,' a Deadly Doll Deserves a Killer Wardrobe: [Style Desk]

Author: Lyon, Joshua

Publication info: Lyon, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/m3gan-deadly-doll-deserves-killer-wardrobe/docview/2765422244/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The titular star of the horror film "M3gan," released last week, had to try on several outfits before finding a signature look.
A doll's clothes can be as memorable as any worn by a human, especially if that doll has a taste for blood.
Talky Tina, the demonic toy made famous by "The Twilight Zone," had her plaid dress with a dainty lace-trimmed collar. Annabelle, the sinister doll that first appeared in "The Conjuring," has her white gown with leg-of-mutton sleeves. And even those who have not seen "Child's Play" (or its sequels) probably know of Chucky and his blue overalls.
The titular star of the horror film "M3gan" stands to be another murderous doll recognized for a killer outfit. Not least because M3gan, whose name is pronounced like Megan, for most of the film wears a striped, silk twill scarf tied in a pussy bow -- a sartorial choice that tends to elicit strong reactions.
M3gan, which stands for Model 3 Generative Android, is a life-size artificially intelligent doll designed to provide companionship and emotional support -- until a programming glitch turns her into a Terminator-esque killing machine. There are parts of the film where the doll is played by a high-tech puppet, but in most scenes, M3gan is played by the actress Amie Donald, 12, wearing a mask.
M3gan, who has wide eyes with long dark lashes and dirty blond hair that falls below her shoulders, wears the pussy-bow scarf with an inverted-pleat shift dress layered over a striped long-sleeve shirt, white stockings and shiny black Mary Janes. Gerard Johnstone, the director of "M3gan," described the doll as having clothes that evoke the mod fashion of the 1960s and "long, flowing hair" like the "Mod Squad" actress Peggy Lipton.
"I wanted her to be classy and elegant and unexpected, almost like the toy equivalent of those automotive shows from the '60s, where the car would appear on the turntable and everyone's minds would be blown," Mr. Johnstone said.
The film's original script, written by Akela Cooper, only referenced M3gan wearing children's clothes, Mr. Johnstone said. Putting her in a loose-hanging shift dress was both a stylistic and practical decision.
"M3gan has to move quickly and unencumbered. She's got to run on all fours. She's going to attack people," he said. "With the shift dress, I could see the possibilities."
About 25 versions of the dress were produced by the film's costume and wardrobe department. "They lasted through all of the dancing, all of the killing," said Daniel Cruden, the film's costume designer. Lizzy Gardiner, an Oscar-winning costume designer who created M3gan's main outfit with Mr. Johnstone, said the pussy-bow scarf was also painstakingly reproduced.
"We needed so many perfect replicas that each one had to be cut and hand sewn with the stripe in the silk in exactly the same place," she wrote in an email. "It needed to be fluid without being bouncy. Large but consistent with a young, tiny girl. Doll-like but fashion forward."
While developing M3gan's wardrobe, many other possible outfits ended up on the dressing room floor. "Initially I wanted her to have a bunch," Mr. Johnstone said. But by giving her a signature look, "that one costume can be really the focus," he added. "People could dress up as her for Halloween."
Where did you look for inspiration for M3gan's clothes?
GERARD JOHNSTONE I was on Pinterest every night looking at fashion, trying to figure it out. Originally it was just me and my wife, for a female perspective. I kept going back to the '60s because of the detailing and the fabrics. Everything was so rich. And Gucci kids' dresses ended up being a big inspiration. I loved a yellow one with red ribbons that I saw online, but we couldn't physically get our hands on it.
If Gucci was such an inspiration why isn't M3gan wearing the label?
JOHNSTONE I wondered if we could get them on board. But you have to get approval and it takes a long time, especially when you're making a horror movie, so we went our own way. We hadn't proved ourselves. The hope now is that it wouldn't be too hard to get some designers if we do another film.
DANIEL CRUDEN If a toy from a film gets licensed and there isn't clothing approval, it could be seen as replicating for a profit. Even if I'd found a pair of vintage Gucci sunglasses, we'd have put them through clearance to make sure they were OK to use.
When viewers see M3gan commit her first murder, she wears a different outfit -- a black cloak with gold buttons and a fur collar, black stockings and leather gloves. What inspired that look?
JOHNSTONE It was kind of a subversion of Little Red Riding Hood. I also thought of her as a bit like Damien from "The Omen." The black gloves were a practical consideration because the gloves made the hands feel more robotic. And she's a doll -- she has to have some accessories.
Speaking of accessories, in another scene M3gan wears a pair of purple sunglasses. Why?
JOHNSTONE I really fought for her to have that moment. It felt like it could either be great or ridiculous. I was worried some people might think, "Is this going to diminish the scares?" But once everyone saw her really rocking the look, they started to get on board.
CRUDEN We had a real hunt for the sunglasses because we knew they were going to be a statement.
JOHNSTONE I wanted Prada.
CRUDEN We ended up with a brand called Minista, they came from a children's boutique in Auckland, New Zealand.
What are some of the outfits that didn't make it into the movie?
CRUDEN There was a scene that showed different M3gans on a turntable wearing looks I created for her. One was French-inspired, with a black beret, black turtleneck and high-waisted flared silk pants. We had a beach M3gan with a peasant blouse, beach hat and espadrilles. Equestrian M3gan had jodhpurs and riding boots. Sporty M3gan looked like she was ready for tennis.
JOHNSTONE Daniel did a very Audrey Hepburn look with a scarf and sunglasses. But the looks were on a dummy M3gan, and she didn't look alive. If we'd been able to do it with our main M3gan, it would have worked. It was a shame.
Interviews with Mr. Johnstone and Mr. Cruden have been edited and condensed.
Photograph "M3gan," far left, and costume sketches. "She's got to run on all fours," said Gerard Johnstone, the director. "She's going to attack people." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES) (ST6; ST7) This article appeared in print on page ST6, ST7.

Subject: Clothing; Costumes; Horror films; Actors; Dolls; Motion picture directors & producers

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/12/style/m3gan-movie-costume-design.html

Title: In 'M3gan,' a Deadly Doll Deserves a Killer Wardrobe:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 15, 2023

column: Styles Q. And A.

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2765422244

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/m3gan-deadly-doll-deserves-killer-wardrobe/docview/2765422244/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Exercise In Speculation: [Style Desk]

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exercise-speculation/docview/2764061497/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What trends will the year bring? Take a guess.
Oh, the possibilities of a new year. This will be the one, we say, when we'll exercise more, spend a little less and stop devoting entire weekends to binge-watching "House Hunters." (OK, maybe that's just me.)
Nevertheless, change is in the air. What will the rest of 2023 bring? We can't see into the future, but let's try. Here are some of our best guesses for what's in store this year. -- Lindsey Underwood, senior staff editor, Styles
No more 'vibes'
Imprecise by design, "vibes" defined our vague feelings of uneasiness in the beginning of the pandemic. The "vibes are off," my friend Steve Macfarlane, who works in the film department at the Museum of Modern Art, wrote in a viral tweet he now regrets, describing the atmosphere of summer 2021. Not long after, there came news of a "vibe shift" gathering on the horizon. Writers and critics tried to pin down exactly what vibes were, but the word remained slippery and, at least for me, frustratingly overused. There will always be a term to account for that which we can't clearly express in the moment -- in the 2010s it was "mood" -- but at a certain point, mere "vibes" crystallize into hard facts, and we're forced to look around and evaluate the circumstances of our lives. -- Marie Solis, editing resident
Comfort in the soft
Last month, the designer Marco Simonetti posted images he'd created, using artificial intelligence, of a hypothetical Jacquemus and Nike pop-up shop in the French ski resort Courchevel; the proposed collection includes squishy knit sneaker boots and bulbous padded bags. Jil Sander's spring 2023 runway show had fuzzy, feathery garments and clutches; the Instagram favorite Selkie has built a cult following with dreamy, delicately hued cream puff dresses. Lucy Sparrow installed an all-felt McDonald's during Miami's Scope Art Show in November, complete with cuddly burgers and fries.
Two million people watched a TikTok featuring cozy crochet covers for headphones created by Alexandria Masse, a textile artist. A post about a teacher who turned her students' drawings into plush toys spread widely on Twitter. Even the concept cars at the trade show CES in early January were mostly rounded with bubble wheels. A soft-rock documentary series, "Sometimes When We Touch," just debuted on TV. Soft boys and soft girls may have been gaining momentum for a while, but this is the year we all go soft. -- Dodai Stewart, Metro writer at large
Supersize lies
By now, most people have accepted little white lies -- those small fabrications that keep polite society humming along, inflating a bit of praise here, safeguarding against hurt feelings there -- as the cost of doing business. In 2023, it's going to take nothing less than baldfaced lies on an international scale to get our collective blood pumping, the type of lie that occasions a scandalized "if that even is your real name!" Representative George Santos has gotten the ball rolling in fine fashion, of course, but I predict that time will reveal him to be only the tip of an iceberg of mendacity, bobbing insidiously in a sea of deceit. Be careful out there. -- Louis Lucero II, senior staff editor, Styles
Pet rats
During his first year in office, Mayor Eric Adams of New York made the city's rat population a pet issue, one that he will seemingly stop at nothing to resolve. He has encouraged the use of new Italian-made traps across the five boroughs. He has created a job, director of rodent mitigation, in the mayor's office. (Starting salary: $ 120,000.) He has installed a sanitation commissioner who doubled down on his rhetoric at a news conference this fall, reminding vermin that "the rats don't run this city, we do."
If these hard-line attempts fail, could a softer approach -- getting rats off the streets by encouraging people to take them in as pets -- come next? Last month, New York State banned the sale of dogs, cats and rabbits at pet stores. Rats, however, remain a permitted commodity -- and they're in no short supply. -- Anthony Rotunno, fashion news editor
The end of shoelaces
They've had a nice run. But the many hot slip-ons of 2022 suggest that 2023 may be the year we retire shoelaces. We've already been shuffling around in the Birkenstock Boston clogs and UGG slippers that exploded on TikTok last year, and we've returned to the office in loafers, ballet flats and Mary Janes. As evidence mounts that the sneaker resale bubble is bursting, even the streetwear crowd has been trying out puffer clogs and the terrain-chic toggle closures on Hoka Hoparas and Salomon XTs. Maybe we've become more willing to wear lightly disguised slippers outside since spending so much time cooped up during the pandemic. Or maybe we're just sick of tying two Boy Scout-level knots every day before 9 a.m. -- Callie Holtermann, Styles news assistant
Butter crocks
Last year brought us the TikTok phenomenon of "butter boards" -- gussied up butter, softened and spread over a cutting board, sprinkled with garnishes like herbs, edible flowers, salt or honey. Delicious! Butter's appeal is eternal, but even butter has trends. So this will be the year of the butter crock, a vessel that sits outside of the refrigerator, designed to keep butter soft and fresh. (Here I feel obligated to mention that the U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends keeping butter at 40 degrees Fahrenheit, even if it messes with my prediction.) If you need a tutorial on how to use one, see this one from Carolina Gelen. Happy spreading. -- Stella Bugbee, Styles editor
Revenge of the normie
The years 2016 to 2022 were marked by a high level of chaos, with the pandemic as the peak of four years of incoherent yelling. In 2023, as I observe people of all political stripes repelled by the spectacle of a Congress unable to choose a leader, I foresee a move away from the strife and dysfunction. Americans are going to gravitate toward media, experiences and political figures that are just regular degular and rather wholesome. More "Abbott Elementary" and "Ticket to Paradise." More Luddite teens starting book clubs and staring at the stars. Less of the extreme and more of the everyday pleasures. -- Jessica Grose, opinion writer
Crafty skills
As inflation decimates our spending power and fast fashion becomes ever more uninspiring and ethically dubious, we can expect lots of talk of shopping for tasteful "investment pieces" in 2023. But for those of us with neither the budget nor the interest in a $ 1,300 black turtleneck from The Row, I hope this year ushers in a resurgence of do-it-yourself clothes crafting.
Thrift stores may no longer offer the inexpensive hidden gems that they did 10 years ago, but they still provide plenty of raw material to shred, dye, bead, appliqué, paint, patch or otherwise mess with to create one-of-a-kind statement pieces. I'm expecting my TikTok algorithm to deliver more tutorials on how to turn a T-shirt into a dress, and I foresee craft night invitations in the place of clothing swaps. Amid a collective nostalgia for the early aughts, it's as good a time as any to embrace uneven hems and unfinished edges. -- Shane O'Neill, senior video editor
Fake fashion items
TikTok helped usher in a new era of fakes in fashion. "Dupe" accessories took off thanks to faster-than-fast-fashion websites selling bootleg Bottega Venetas and Balenciagas -- although some analog New York City street vendors profited, too, like the "scarf guy" selling Acne Studios knockoffs on Seventh Avenue in Manhattan. But fashion's cyclical nature suggests that in 2023, we're due to see more meta-fakes: merchandise created by troublemakers poking fun at logomania and the obsession with luxury that proliferates on social media. The last time bootlegging became a trend was around 2017, when brands like Gucci made "Guccy" shirts and paid homage to its most famous provocateur, Dapper Dan. Luxury brands getting in on the joke somehow made it much less funny. Still, in-your-face fakes will always be more interesting than straight-faced fakes, as I was recently reminded by Johnny Cirillo of Watching New York. He's a street photographer who caught one stylish pedestrian carrying a Hermès Birkin dupe covered with the words: "You fake like this Birkin." -- Jessica Testa, fashion news reporter
Hair care > skin care
Leave your 12-step facial routine in the past, and trade caring for the cells on your face for the ones growing out of your head. This is going to be the year of upgrading your drugstore shampoo and conditioner -- or maybe just finding a drugstore brand that works better for your hair -- and giving your strands a little more TLC. Whatever that means for you! Maybe it's a microfiber towel, a fresh cotton T-shirt for plopping your hair or a Denman brush for curl definition. The 2022 return of the claw clip, a '90s staple that can be less damaging than a hair elastic, was just the beginning. Keep an eye out for heatless styling methods on your TikTok's For You Page and Instagram ads peddling scalp scrubs and conditioning masks. And if that is not enough to convince you, just look at the TikTok discourse that broke out in the first week of the new year over a rosemary hair oil. -- Madison Malone Kircher, Styles reporter
Justice for hoodie-and-shorts guys
Congressional elections are all about representation. And while I am a Californian, at no other point in history have I felt more represented than when John Fetterman, the blue-collar giant known for appearing on the campaign trail in shorts and a hoodie, was sworn in as a senator from Pennsylvania. As a longtime hoodie-and-shorts guy, I greatly appreciate Mr. Fetterman's dedication to the bit; neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night has deterred him from wearing his preferred outfit in public.
My hope is that Mr. Fetterman's bravery, along with Covid chic's becoming more acceptable outside of video calls, will bring more of us hoodie-and-shorts guys out of the woodwork and onto the national stage in 2023. This is more than just athleisure: It is a movement. -- Mike Isaac, technology reporter
Talking to strangers
It's notably weird when someone next to you on the subway or at a restaurant strikes up a conversation, no matter how innocuous. I anticipate, perhaps somewhat wishfully, that 2023 will change that. More strangers in public settings will start conversing with one another on matters small and large. It will make us feel like we're all living in this world together rather than going about it ourselves, and new ideas will be spread and debated like we're in one never-ending French salon. -- Anna Kodé, real estate reporter
A crusade against caffeine
Last year, alcohol-free rosé crept into the club and exorbitantly expensive mocktails showed up on bar menus. In 2023, the crackdown will come for caffeine. Think mugs of matcha-flavored brew without the kick, a booming decaf menu at Starbucks -- or, as one perhaps soon-to-be-former tech executive prefers, soda-flavored sludge sapped of caffeine. Wellness influencers will post pastel infographics that rail against caffeine-induced jitters; before-and-after videos will clog your TikTok feed, showing people a day, a week, a month without coffee. If indie sleaze really is oozing back, this time around, we'll be chugging caffeine-free Red Bull instead of Four Loko. See you at the coffeeless coffee bar. -- Dani Blum, associate reporter, Well
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH RENSTROM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MICHELLE GROSKOPF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; CHRISTOPHER TESTANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.; MIKAYLA WHITMORE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LIBOR SOJKA/ASSOCIATED PRESS; SCOTT ROSSI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JEREMY MOELLER/GETTY IMAGES; KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALESSANDRO LUCIONI/ GORUNWAY.COM; AMIR HAMJA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SYLVIA JARRUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; AILEEN SON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Hair; Drug stores; Trends; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Drug stores

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/07/style/lifestyle-trends-2023.html

Title: An Exercise In Speculation:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 12, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2764061497

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exercise-speculation/docview/2764061497/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At the Golden Globes, a Night of Statement-Making: [Style Desk]

Author: Friedman, Vanessa

Publication info: Friedman, Vanessa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-golden-globes-night-statement-making/docview/2764061474/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The awards show returned, and so did major dressing up.
So the Golden Globes returned, two years after disappearing from our screens, first because of a pandemic-induced lockdown and then because of scandal -- financial, ethical and racial. And with their disappearance went the first major red carpet of that phenomenon otherwise known as the Extended Awards Season Fashion Show.
Before the event, speculation was rife: Would stars actually show up for the tarnished Hollywood Foreign Press Association? And if they did, would they seek to play down their connection with the evening's awards by dressing down? Would they stay away from eye-catching ensembles, in favor of the forgettably banal and the bland?
As if. Globes night turned out to be a night of statement-making, onstage and on the red carpet. Not so much of the marketing or branding kind, but rather of the personal kind. And it was the more interesting for it.
Jerrod Carmichael, the host, set the tone with an opening monologue that addressed the Globes' historical lack of diversity without pulling any punches and went on from there -- with a matching set of six (count 'em) outfit changes that included two skinny black velvet suits (the first by Armani); a symphony of pinks; one white tuxedo with a sheer turtleneck and pearl necklace; and a Bode beaded tunic. It may be a record for number of award show looks worn by a single host. If some fashion brand doesn't sign him up immediately, it'll be the biggest surprise of the night.
Still, go big or go home seemed to be the general theme. Rihanna, making her first major post-baby event appearance, swaddled herself in a black velvet Schiaparelli bustier dress and an enormous shoulder-swallowing sculpted velvet stole, plus velvet opera gloves and Cartier diamonds.
Angela Bassett played a silver superhero in Pamela Rolland sequins. Laverne Cox channeled Marilyn Monroe in a blond bob and vintage Galliano gown. And Jessica Chastain got caught in a gossamer beaded Oscar de la Renta spiderweb -- with a matching mask. She was one of the few attendees to nod to the continued reality of Covid.
Royalty was a trend, represented in a plethora of red (Lily James in a bandeau top from which was suspended acres of swagged Versace skirting and Billy Porter in a cardinal velvet Christian Siriano coatdress with a sweeping train) and purple (Selena Gomez in Valentino and Sheryl Lee Ralph in glimmering Aliétte). This was probably not surprising given the recently unavoidable nature of the subject thanks to Prince Harry's memoir.
Also pink, courtesy of Seth Rogen in salmon Dior Men and Margot Robbie in powder puff Chanel. (Rumors of her separation from the brand appear to be highly exaggerated.) And overblown rosettes on lapels, as represented by Eddie Redmayne's chocolate Valentino, Diego Calva's forest green Gucci and Emma D'Arcy's oversize Acne Studios satin tux, skirt and trousers, chosen because, they said, "nothing says nonbinary like wearing both a skirt and trousers."
There was a lot of speaking-in-clothes going on. Michaela Jaé Rodriguez, in draped sapphire Balmain, told E! that her dress was "giving water butterfly." Michelle Williams, in cascading tiers of Gucci ruffles, looked like sea coral, wafting in the waves. And Jenny Slate, in leaf green Rodarte with a bloom at the throat, said she wanted to look "like a woman who's about to turn into a magical plant." Why not? It's the beginning of the year. Anything could happen.
Donald Glover said he was going for comfort, and the chance to get "mildly drunk," with his white silk YSL pajama-and-robe set under his tux, possibly the perfect combination of working-from-home dressing meets black tie. You can go from the ballroom to the bedroom in one easy step.
Indeed, it was but one of a variety of contemporary twists on ye olde tux, as modeled most successfully by Jean Smart in an elegant, sharp-shouldered tuxedo dress with an actual twist at the waist, and Hannah Einbinder in a strapless black Carolina Herrera tea dress with a white bow at the bodice.
She looked as if she could move, as did Letitia Wright, in a simple Prada trompe l'oeil silk column dress, deliberately crumpled and splotched with a rough-cut slash at the leg that was an ode of sorts to the elegance of imperfection. Like the night itself, it was a reminder that when it comes to our flaws, it's how you deal with them that matters.
Photograph Above, Rihanna in Schiaparelli; right, Letitia Wright in Prada; from far left, Michelle Williams in Gucci, Billy Porter in Christian Siriano and Selena Gomez in Valentino. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JON KOPALOFF/GETTY IMAGES; CAROLINE BREHMAN/ EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES); Above, the show's host, Jerrod Carmichael, who made six outfit changes; below, from left, Seth Rogen in Dior Men, Diego Calva in Gucci and Emma D'Arcy in Acne Studios satin tux, skirt and trousers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER POLK/NBC, VIA GETTY IMAGES; RICH POLK/NBC VIA GETTY IMAGES; AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES; DANIELE VENTURELLI/WIREIMAGE; JON KOPALOFF/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Golden Globe awards

People: Wright, Letitia; Rogen, Seth; Carmichael, Jerrod; Siriano, Christian; Gomez, Selena

Company / organization: Name: Acne Studios; NAICS: 458110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/11/style/golden-globes-fashion.html

Title: At the Golden Globes, a Night of Statement-Making:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 12, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2764061474

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-golden-globes-night-statement-making/docview/2764061474/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Clothes for Dogs at a Men's Wear Show: [Style Desk]

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clothes-dogs-at-mens-wear-show/docview/2764061463/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A pavilion dedicated to the multibillion-dollar market in pet apparel makes its debut at the world's largest men's wear trade show.
FLORENCE, Italy -- Little-known fact: Dogs are clotheshorses.
In a thriving marketplace for pet apparel that was valued at $ 5.7 billion in 2021, dog owners account for a majority of sales. Common sense suggests that the bulk of that expenditure goes to leashes, harnesses and collars. Yet as it turns out, T-shirts and sweaters are a startlingly robust canine growth sector. And let's not forget about coats.
These were some takeaways from Day 1 at Pitti Uomo, the men's wear trade fair held in Florence every January and June. And what, one may ask, does Rover's turtleneck have to do with an event best known for attracting flocks of vain male humans disporting themselves in wackadoodle plumage?
It is that, for the first time, Pitti Uomo devoted a pavilion inside the 16th-century Fortezza da Basso to showcasing animal apparel, and why not? Cats and dogs make up the greater percentage of the hundreds of millions of pets on the planet. And it is largely feline and canine markets that are driving a boom in pet apparel (guppies, parakeets and guinea pigs tending to look better naked).
Among the factors credited with driving market growth are increased urbanization, an overall uptick in disposable income and societal shifts that give pets parity with -- and, often enough, priority over -- family members. Thus we now see a proliferation of pet-centric brands like Moshiqa, which has been spotted on Lady Gaga's French bulldogs, as well as Max Bone, PetHaus, Wagwear, Muttropolis, Vanderpump Pets and a raft of other pricey canine offerings from luxury goods houses like Barbour, Ralph Lauren and Gucci.
Surprisingly, it was not the marquee high-end labels -- with their $ 655 logo harnesses (Moncler) or $ 300 four-legged, fleece-collared blanket-plaid coats (Dsquared2) or $ 540 patterned woolen hippie ponchos (Alanui), all made in collaboration with Poldo Dog Couture -- that brought their wares to Florence.
Instead, for this modest debut, the Pitti Pet pavilion was given over to 15 stands in a pavilion designed by the architect Ilaria Marelli and featuring mostly plucky indies like the Painter's Wife from Spain or midsize brands like Lollipet and DuePuntoOtto (with a line of dot-patterned dog coats and beds designed by the Italian architect and design deity Paola Navone), each clamoring to claim a share of what remains a nascent sector.
Was there silliness? Since we are talking about creatures perfectly clad as nature made them, there was. Was considerate design required of garments essentially comprising a top seam, a belt and apertures for head and tail? Oddly, the answer was yes. While one display featured crinolines that would test the dignity of any canine, purebred or mutt, another offered a back-belted doggie car coat inspired by one Hubert de Givenchy created for Audrey Hepburn to wear in "Breakfast at Tiffany's." As did Holly Golightly's, this one had bracelet-length sleeves.
"It's huge and it's growing," the Lollipet designer Sonia Staccioli said of the market for outerwear like the pieces she had brought along, jackets and coats made from metallic fake leatherette, faux fur and a nubby Casentino wool produced for centuries at several small and now imperiled Tuscan mills.
When a reporter inquired of Ms. Staccioli, whose Bracco Italiano hunting dog, Ugo, strained at his leash, how making clothes for customers with four legs and little say in their choice of apparel differed from designing for notoriously picky humans, she shrugged.
"It's basically the same," she said, "except with dogs you don't have to listen to their opinion."
Photograph The Paikka booth at Pitti Uomo in Florence, Italy, one of several that featured dog apparel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLARA VANNUCCI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Clothing; Design; Pets; Dogs

Location: Italy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/12/style/mens-wear-puts-on-the-dog.html

Title: Clothes for Dogs at a Men's Wear Show:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 12, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2764061463

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clothes-dogs-at-mens-wear-show/docview/2764061463/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Menswear Puts on the Dog

Author: Trebay, Guy

Publication info: Trebay, Guy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/menswear-puts-on-dog/docview/2764024146/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
FLORENCE, Italy — Little-known fact: Dogs are clotheshorses.
In a thriving marketplace for pet apparel that was valued at $5.7 billion in 2021, dog owners account for a majority of sales. Common sense suggests that the bulk of that expenditure goes to leashes, harnesses and collars. Yet as it turns out, T-shirts and sweaters are a startlingly robust canine growth sector. And let’s not forget about coats.
These were some takeaways from Day 1 at Pitti Uomo, the menswear trade fair held in Florence every January and June. And what, one may ask, does Rover’s turtleneck have to do with an event best known for attracting flocks of vain male humans disporting themselves in wackadoodle plumage?
It is that, for the first time, Pitti Uomo devoted a pavilion inside the 16th-century Fortezza da Basso to showcasing animal apparel, and why not? Cats and dogs make up the greater percentage of the hundreds of millions of pets on the planet. And it is largely feline and canine markets that are driving a boom in pet apparel (guppies, parakeets and guinea pigs tending to look better naked).
Among the factors credited with driving market growth are increased urbanization, an overall uptick in disposable income and societal shifts that give pets parity with — and, often enough, priority over — family members. Thus we now see a proliferation of pet-centric brands like Moshiqa, which has been spotted on Lady Gaga’s French bulldogs, as well as Max Bone, PetHaus, Wagwear, Muttropolis, Vanderpump Pets and a raft of other pricey canine offerings from luxury goods houses like Barbour, Ralph Lauren and Gucci.
Surprisingly, it was not the marquee high-end labels — with their $655 logo harnesses (Moncler) or $300 four-legged, fleece-collared blanket-plaid coats (Dsquared2) or $540 patterned woolen hippie ponchos (Alanui), all made in collaboration with Poldo Dog Couture — that brought their wares to Florence.
Instead, for this modest debut, the Pitti pet pavilion was given over to 15 stands in a pavilion designed by architect Ilaria Marelli and featuring mostly plucky indies like the Painter’s Wife from Spain or mid-size brands like Lollipet and DuePuntoOtto (with a line of dot-patterned dog coats and beds designed by Italian architect and design deity Paola Navone), each clamoring to claim a share of what remains a nascent sector.
Was there silliness? Since we are talking about creatures perfectly clad as nature made them, there was. Was considerate design required of garments essentially comprising a top seam, a belt and apertures for head and tail? Oddly, the answer was yes. While one display featured crinolines that would test the dignity of any canine, purebred or mutt, another offered a back-belted doggy car coat inspired by one Hubert de Givenchy created for Audrey Hepburn to wear in “Breakfast at Tiffany’s.” As did Holly Golightly’s, this one had bracelet-length sleeves.
“It’s huge and it’s growing,” Lollipet designer Sonia Staccioli said of the market for outerwear like the pieces she had brought along, jackets and coats made from metallic fake leatherette, faux fur and a nubby Casentino wool produced for centuries at several small and now imperiled Tuscan mills.
When a reporter inquired of Staccioli, whose Bracco Italiano hunting dog, Ugo, strained at his leash, how making clothes for customers with four legs and little say in their choice of apparel differed from designing for notoriously picky humans, she shrugged.
“It’s basically the same,” she said, “except with dogs you don’t have to listen to their opinion.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Menswear; Design; Embargoes & blockades; Pets; Dogs

Location: Italy; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; NAICS: 312130, 315210, 316990, 325620, 339910

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Lady Gaga; Moncler (Fashion Label); Trebay, Guy; Hepburn, Audrey; Spain; France; Givenchy; Dsquared2 (Fashion Label); Polo Ralph Lauren Corp; Italy; Givenchy, Hubert De; Gucci; Florence (Italy); Trademarks And Trade Names; Luxury Goods And Services; Fur; Wool And Woolen Goods; Architecture; Coats And Jackets; Textiles; Income; Fashion Shows; Pets; Dogs

Title: Menswear Puts on the Dog

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-11 @ 23:36

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2764024146

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/menswear-puts-on-dog/docview/2764024146/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-18

Database: Global N ewsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Film Trailers, Not the Same Old Song: [Correction]

Author: Ducker, Eric

Publication info: Ducker, Eric. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/film-trailers-not-same-old-song/docview/2765416626/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Composers are increasingly in demand for trailerization -- reworking existing tracks by artists including Kate Bush, Nirvana and Kendrick Lamar to maximize their impact in film and TV previews.
David James Rosen's work has been streamed on YouTube hundreds of millions of times. He's played a crucial role in some of pop culture's biggest recent moments. But few people outside of the space where the entertainment and marketing industries overlap know his name.
As a composer, Rosen is at the forefront of the trailerization movement: He's in demand for his ability to rework existing songs to maximize their impact in trailers for films and TV shows.
He married vocals and motifs from Kate Bush's "Running Up That Hill" to a thunderous version of the "Stranger Things" theme in the lead-up to the second volume of the show's fourth season. He intertwined the Nigerian singer Tems's cover of "No Woman No Cry" with Kendrick Lamar's "Alright" in the teaser for "Black Panther: Wakanda Forever," symbolizing the meeting of the franchise's future and its legacy. He put a sinister singe on Taylor Swift's "It's Nice to Have a Friend" for the diabolical doll thriller "M3GAN." He added cosmic drama to Elton John's classic rock staple "Goodbye Yellow Brick Road" for the upcoming "Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania."
As potential viewers are inundated with an ever-growing number of options, studios have limited chances to build anticipation for their projects. At the same time, technological advances have made it easier than ever for products to stand out. "People want their film to have its own identity," Rosen said in an interview at a Los Angeles coffee shop. "The genie's out of the bottle as far as the limitless ability to customize something for your film. Clients, studios, agencies, whatever, they all know that and like to take advantage of it."
Rosen spent his 20s playing guitar in the New Jersey band the Parlor Mob. After moving to L.A. in 2014, he got a job as the in-house composer at a trailer house -- the specialized production companies behind these promos. Three years later, he co-founded Totem, a music library that creates custom tracks for trailers. Much of Rosen's output is original compositions, but the ones that get the most attention are his overhauls.
"Almost never does a song just drop into a trailer and work," he said. "Maybe it needs to feel more epic or more emotional, or maybe it needs to feel subtler with things pulled away."
Trailerization is a relatively new term and the distinctions within it are malleable. There are reimaginations, which are usually instrumental covers by composers. There are overlays, where elements are added to a song in varying degrees. Then there are remixes, where the source material is distinctly altered, often to shift the context.
Some distinguish between remixes and overlays by what the composer has to play with. If there's a full set of stems -- the separated digital parts that comprise a song -- it's a remix. If stems aren't available, it's an overlay.
Occasionally composers will be asked to create "invisible overlays," where they make adjustments that are imperceptible to most listeners but nudge a song toward a more wide-screen sound.
The trailerization process is now so common that even when a trailer uses the film's original score, it too will be adjusted. "Trailers are a mini version of the movie," said Cato, the one-named composer whose credits include performing a system update on Vangelis for the "Blade Runner 2049" trailer and giving Guns N' Roses an anguished-turned-pulverizing remix for Jason Momoa's Netflix revenge film "Sweet Girl."
"You have to suck people into the theater and tell a story in two-and-a-half minutes," Cato added. "That is so intense and builds so quickly that most music written for the actual movie will be way too long and drawn out."
IN THE PAST, trailers often relied on the scores of previously released films, but that practice has basically become verboten. Starting in the late 1970s, the composer John Beal pioneered original scores for trailers, but that required a recording studio full of musicians, making it a costly, resource-heavy endeavor. Today, with developments in software, it's easier than ever to simulate those sounds.
"I could sit at my computer at home and you wouldn't know that there wasn't a 100-piece orchestra there," Rosen said. "You couldn't do that 10 years ago."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Many point to the trailer for "The Social Network," from 2010 -- which featured a Belgian women's choir singing Radiohead's "Creep" -- as the origin of what became the trailerization trend. Its success incited a deluge of trailers using slow and sad covers of well-known songs, usually featuring female vocalists. Recent examples include Liza Anne's version of "Dreams" by the Cranberries for "Aftersun" and Bellsaint's interpretation of R.E.M.'s "Losing My Religion" for the second season of the "Chucky" TV series.
Sanaz Lavaedian, the senior vice president of music for the trailer house Mocean, said that when she entered the industry in 2011, there was still a lot of resistance from artists who didn't want their music used for commercial purposes. Covers provided a workaround. Now, as more musicians are struggling to make a living, they're often more open to trailers not just using their music but modifying it.
"There were so many bands that didn't think licensing was cool, so they never let us do it," Lavaedian said. "Now they're like, 'Oh, we're going to make half a million dollars on this? Nevermind."'
Many high profile trailerizations are applied to songs that are decades old: Remixes and overlays allow the trailers to tap into the nostalgia evoked by the original. "If we were able to remix an Elton John song or a Beatles song, these are iconic artists," Lavaedian said. "The second you hear their voice, you know who it is, and there's a lot of weight in that. More weight than if it were a cover."
The composer Bryce Miller's big breakthrough came in 2019 with the "Godzilla: King of the Monsters" trailer, which featured his custom orchestral rendition of "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" atop images of kaiju carnage. His subsequent credits include a modernization of Blondie's "Heart of Glass" for "House of Gucci," an orchestral blend of the Rolling Stones' "Paint It Black" and the "Addams Family Theme" for "Wednesday" and a haunting overlay for Nirvana's "Something in the Way" in "The Batman" trailer.
"As soon as I can get rid of dated-sounding guitars and drums, I can build a more contemporary production that is pulling from more pop music sounds," Miller said. "Older recordings sonically are a little thin and lack the heft that so many contemporary songs have."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Unique remixes began appearing in trailers going back to the mid-2010s, but it wasn't until the one for Jordan Peele's 2019 film "Us" that studios and audiences began to really take notice. In the fresh interpretation, with its piercing strings and moody atmospherics, a celebratory weed rap by the Oakland duo Luniz became deeply unsettling.
"Every once in a while we get one of those game-changer trailers," Lavaedian said. The "Us" trailer "is taking a song and deconstructing it down to its bones and then constructing it again to do what that film needed it to do. It was kind of groundbreaking."
MARK WOOLLEN, THE founder of the trailer house Mark Woollen & Associates, specializes in award-season films and was responsible for that transformative "Social Network" trailer. New York magazine once called him "the uncontested auteur of the trailer era."
In a phone interview, Woollen noted that in contemporary trailers, omniscient narration has largely disappeared (that means no more hackneyed "In a world ..." setups) and there's less dialogue from the film. Trailers "can be more impressionistic and elliptical in their storytelling," he said. "It's more about creating a feeling in a lot of the work."
As a result, the trailer's soundtrack has become increasingly crucial. "Music is sometimes 80 to 90 percent of the process to us," Woollen said. "It's trying to cast that right piece of music that's going to inspire and dictate rhythm and set tone and inform character and story, and hopefully make an impression."
For Amazon's recent love triangle "My Policeman," Woollen used Cat Power's "Sea of Love," which has become a romantic favorite among aging millennials. Though Cat Power's original interpretation was stripped down to just the singer Chan Marshall's voice and strums on an autoharp, Woollen had a composer overlay swelling strings as the drama became more fraught.
Beyond providing the vibes, a song is often selected for a trailer because the lyrics convey the film's narrative themes. Woollen didn't just select "Sea of Love" because it is mysterious and seductive. He was equally guided by the refrain "I want to tell you how much I love you" and the ambiguousness of who that "you" might be.
In Marvel's "The Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania" trailer, as the heroes realize the size of the predicament they've gotten themselves into, the sound design emphasizes Elton John singing, "I should have stayed on the farm/I should have listened to my old man."
Deciding which song a trailer uses and how it's employed can involve studio marketing executives, the filmmakers, the team at the trailer house and the composer. A trailer's creation can take years and is often covered by restrictive nondisclosure agreements, preventing the people behind it from discussing the details of making it, even after it has been released.
Because the material is so protected, the musicians rarely see the images that will be included in the trailer. Instead they have to rely on a music supervisor or creative director at a trailer house to guide them through inception and multiple rounds of revisions. "We're literally dealing with billions of dollars in unreleased assets," Lavaedian said of the footage from the films. "There's no way we can send that to a composer."
UNLESS YOU KNOW where to look on the internet, the pieces made by trailer composers are largely uncredited, and sometimes contractually so. Trailerizations are created "to live exclusively in the trailer," Rosen said. "They serve as a piece of marketing."
But that may be changing.
When the agency Trailer Park approached Miller about doing a trailerization for the first volume of the fourth season of "Stranger Things," he was told the general plot and tone of the episodes. He'd long wanted to do something with Journey's "Separate Ways (Worlds Apart)" and it turned out the song was on the agency's shortlist as well.
After spending months on his ominous remix, it made it to the final stages of the approval process where the original musicians had to sign off. Steve Perry, the song's singer, loved it and came to Miller's studio to help construct an extended remix. Then he got Netflix to release both versions on the official soundtrack, with Miller's name attached.
Miller called Perry inspiring and a joy to work with. "He's also like a runaway train. As soon as we finished 'Stranger Things,' he's like, 'What are we doing next?"' The pair collaborated again on a trailerization of Journey's "Any Way You Want It" for the Hulu series "Welcome to Chippendales."
Where will trailerization at large head next? Recently, there's been an interest in 1990s alternative rock hits, with remixes of Spacehog and the Toadies appearing in trailers for "Guardian of the Galaxy Volume 3" and "The Midnight Club." In the promo for "Babylon," the team of composers known as Superhuman created a Jazz Age-influenced interpretation of David Bowie's "Fame" that's almost as nutty as the film itself.
With decades of material to work with, Rosen hopes the trend continues. "There's more opportunity for creativity from me and other people," he said. "I view it as a new life for a lot of these artists' songs."
Audio produced by Jack D'Isidoro.
Audio produced by Jack D'Isidoro.
Photograph Above, the composer David James Rosen at his home in Los Angeles. Below, two of his semimodular analog synths, which he uses to help create music for movie trailers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE AND BELOW, MICHAEL TYRONE DELANEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR30.

Subject: Composers; Narrative theme; Remixes (Sound recordings); Orchestras; Motion pictures; Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances; Film & stage music; Popular culture

People: Lamar, Kendrick; John, Elton

Title: For Film Trailers, Not the Same Old Song:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.30

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 8, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2765416626

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/film-trailers-not-same-old-song/docview/2765416626/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

13 Predictions for Life in 2023

Author: The Styles Desk

Publication info: The Styles Desk. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/13-predictions-life-2023/docview/2761785277/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Oh, the possibilities of a new year. This will be the one, we say, when we’ll exercise more, spend a little less and stop devoting entire weekends to binge-watching “House Hunters.” (OK, maybe that’s just me.)
Nevertheless, change is in the air. What will the rest of 2023 bring? We can’t see into the future, but let’s try. Here are some of our best guesses for what’s in store this year. — Lindsey Underwood, senior editor, Styles
______
No More ‘Vibes’
Imprecise by design, “vibes” defined our vague feelings of uneasiness in the beginning of the pandemic. The “vibes are off,” my friend Steve Macfarlane, who works in the film department at the Museum of Modern Art, wrote in a viral tweet he now regrets, describing the atmosphere of summer 2021. Not long after, there came news of a “vibe shift” gathering on the horizon. Writers and critics tried to pin down exactly what vibes were, but the word remained slippery and, at least for me, frustratingly overused. There will always be a term to account for that which we can’t clearly express in the moment — in the 2010s it was “mood” — but at a certain point, mere “vibes” crystallize into hard facts, and we’re forced to look around and evaluate the circumstances of our lives. — Marie Solis, editing resident
Comfort in the Soft
Last month, designer Marco Simonetti posted images he’d created, using artificial intelligence, of a hypothetical Jacquemus and Nike pop-up shop in the French ski resort Courchevel; the proposed collection includes squishy knit sneaker boots and bulbous padded bags. Jil Sander’s spring 2023 runway show had fuzzy, feathery garments and clutches; Instagram favorite Selkie has built a cult following with dreamy, delicately hued cream puff dresses. Lucy Sparrow installed an all-felt McDonald’s during Miami’s Scope Art Show in November, complete with cuddly burgers and fries.
Two million people watched a TikTok featuring cozy crochet covers for headphones created by Alexandria Masse, a textile artist. A post about a teacher who turned her students’ drawings into plush toys spread widely on Twitter. Even the concept cars at the trade show CES in early January were mostly rounded with bubble wheels. A soft-rock documentary series, “Sometimes When We Touch,” just debuted on TV. Soft boys and soft girls may have been gaining momentum for a while, but this is the year we all go soft. — Dodai Stewart, Metro writer at large
Supersize Lies
By now, most people have accepted little white lies — those small fabrications that keep polite society humming along, inflating a bit of praise here, safeguarding against hurt feelings there — as the cost of doing business. In 2023, it’s going to take nothing less than baldfaced lies on an international scale to get our collective blood pumping, the type of lie that occasions a scandalized “if that even is your real name!” Rep. George Santos has gotten the ball rolling in fine fashion, of course, but I predict that time will reveal him to be only the tip of an iceberg of mendacity, bobbing insidiously in a sea of deceit. Be careful out there. — Louis Lucero II, senior staff editor, Styles
Pet Rats
During his first year in office, Mayor Eric Adams of New York made the city’s rat population a pet issue, one that he will seemingly stop at nothing to resolve. He has encouraged the use of new Italian-made traps across the five boroughs. He has created a job, director of rodent mitigation, in the mayor’s office. (Starting salary: $120,000.) He has installed a sanitation commissioner who doubled down on his rhetoric at a news conference this fall, reminding vermin that “the rats don’t run this city, we do.”
If these hard-line attempts fail, could a softer approach — getting rats off the streets by encouraging people to take them in as pets — come next? Last month, New York state banned the sale of dogs, cats and rabbits at pet stores. Rats, however, remain a permitted commodity — and they’re in no short supply. — Anthony Rotunno, fashion news editor
The End of Shoelaces
They’ve had a nice run. But the many hot slip-ons of 2022 suggest that 2023 may be the year we retire shoelaces. We’ve already been shuffling around in the Birkenstock Boston clogs and UGG slippers that exploded on TikTok last year, and we’ve returned to the office in loafers, ballet flats and Mary Janes. As evidence mounts that the sneaker resale bubble is bursting, even the streetwear crowd has been trying out puffer clogs and the terrain-chic toggle closures on Hoka Hoparas and Salomon XTs. Maybe we’ve become more willing to wear lightly disguised slippers outside since spending so much time cooped up during the pandemic. Or maybe we’re just sick of tying two Boy Scout-level knots every day before 9 a.m. — Callie Holtermann, Styles news assistant
Butter Crocks
Last year brought us the TikTok phenomenon of “butter boards” — gussied up butter, softened and spread over a cutting board, sprinkled with garnishes like herbs, edible flowers, salt or honey. Delicious! Butter’s appeal is eternal, but even butter has trends. So this will be the year of the butter crock, a vessel that sits outside of the refrigerator, designed to keep butter soft and fresh. (Here I feel obligated to mention that the U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends keeping butter at 40 degrees Fahrenheit, even if it messes with my prediction.) Happy spreading. — Stella Bugbee, Styles editor
Revenge of the Normie
The years 2016 to 2022 were marked by a high level of chaos, with the pandemic as the peak of four years of incoherent yelling. In 2023, as I observe people of all political stripes repelled by the spectacle of a Congress unable to choose a leader, I foresee a move away from the strife and dysfunction. Americans are going to gravitate toward media, experiences and political figures that are just regular degular and rather wholesome. More “Abbott Elementary” and “Ticket to Paradise.” More Luddite teens starting book clubs and staring at the stars. Less of the extreme and more of the everyday pleasures. — Jessica Grose, opinion writer
Crafty Skills
As inflation decimates our spending power and fast fashion becomes ever more uninspiring and ethically dubious, we can expect lots of talk of shopping for tasteful “investment pieces” in 2023. But for those of us with neither the budget nor the interest in a $1,300 black turtleneck from The Row, I hope this year ushers in a resurgence of do-it-yourself clothes crafting.
Thrift stores may no longer offer the inexpensive hidden gems that they did 10 years ago, but they still provide plenty of raw material to shred, dye, bead, appliqué, paint, patch or otherwise mess with to create one-of-a-kind statement pieces. I’m expecting my TikTok algorithm to deliver more tutorials on how to turn a T-shirt into a dress, and I foresee craft night invitations in the place of clothing swaps. Amid a collective nostalgia for the early aughts, it’s as good a time as any to embrace uneven hems and unfinished edges. — Shane O’Neill, senior video editor
Fake Fashion Items
TikTok helped usher in a new era of fakes in fashion. “Dupe” accessories took off thanks to faster-than-fast-fashion websites selling bootleg Bottega Venetas and Balenciagas — although some analog New York City street vendors profited, too, like the “scarf guy” selling Acne Studios knockoffs on Seventh Avenue in Manhattan. But fashion’s cyclical nature suggests that in 2023, we’re due to see more meta-fakes: merchandise created by troublemakers poking fun at logomania and the obsession with luxury that proliferates on social media. The last time bootlegging became a trend was around 2017, when brands like Gucci made “Guccy” shirts and paid homage to its most famous provocateur, Dapper Dan. Luxury brands getting in on the joke somehow made it much less funny. Still, in-your-face fakes will always be more interesting than straight-faced fakes, as I was recently reminded by Johnny Cirillo of Watching New York. He’s a street photographer who caught one stylish pedestrian carrying a Hermès Birkin dupe covered with the words: “You fake like this Birkin.” — Jessica Testa, fashion news reporter
Hair Care > Skin Care
Leave your 12-step facial routine in the past, and trade caring for the cells on your face for the ones growing out of your head. This is going to be the year of upgrading your drugstore shampoo and conditioner — or maybe just finding a drugstore brand that works better for your hair — and giving your strands a little more TLC. Whatever that means for you! Maybe it’s a microfiber towel, a fresh cotton T-shirt for plopping your hair or a Denman brush for curl definition. The 2022 return of the claw clip, a ’90s staple that can be less damaging than a hair elastic, was just the beginning. Keep an eye out for heatless styling methods on your TikTok’s For You Page and Instagram ads peddling scalp scrubs and conditioning masks. And if that is not enough to convince you, just look at the TikTok discourse that broke out in the first week of the new year over a rosemary hair oil. — Madison Malone Kircher, Styles reporter
Justice for Hoodie-and-Shorts Guys
Congressional elections are all about representation. And while I am a Californian, at no other point in history have I felt more represented than when John Fetterman, the blue-collar giant known for appearing on the campaign trail in shorts and a hoodie, was sworn in as a senator from Pennsylvania. As a longtime hoodie-and-shorts guy, I greatly appreciate Fetterman’s dedication to the bit; neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night has deterred him from wearing his preferred outfit in public.
My hope is that Fetterman’s bravery, along with COVID chic becoming more acceptable outside of video calls, will bring more of us hoodie-and-shorts guys out of the woodwork and onto the national stage in 2023. This is more than just athleisure: It is a movement. — Mike Isaac, technology reporter
Talking to Strangers
It’s notably weird when someone next to you on the subway or at a restaurant strikes up a conversation, no matter how innocuous. I anticipate, perhaps somewhat wishfully, that 2023 will change that. More strangers in public settings will start conversing with one another on matters small and large. It will make us feel like we’re all living in this world together rather than going about it ourselves, and new ideas will be spread and debated like we’re in one never-ending French salon. — Anna Kodé, real estate reporter
A Crusade Against Caffeine
Last year, alcohol-free rosé crept into the club and exorbitantly expensive mocktails showed up on bar menus. In 2023, the crackdown will come for caffeine. Think mugs of matcha-flavored brew without the kick, a booming decaf menu at Starbucks — or, as one perhaps soon-to-be-former tech executive prefers, soda-flavored sludge sapped of caffeine. Wellness influencers will post pastel infographics that rail against caffeine-induced jitters; before-and-after videos will clog your TikTok feed, showing people a day, a week, a month without coffee. If indie sleaze really is oozing back, this time around, we’ll be chugging caffeine-free Red Bull instead of Four Loko. See you at the coffeeless coffee bar. — Dani Blum, associate reporter, Well This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Hair; Drug stores; Trends; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Drug stores

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Pennsy lvania; Boy Scouts; Courchevel (France); California; Nike Inc; Birkenstock Footprint Sandals; Mcdonald's Corporation; Twitter; Starbucks Corporation; Matter Ventures; Russo, Anthony; Bugbee, Stella; Tlc (Tv Network); Adams, Eric L; Vessel Group Inc; Subway Restaurants; Jil Sander Ag; The Row (Fashion Label); Jacquemus (Fashion Label); Ugg (Fashion Label); Instagram Inc; United States; France; Senate; Gucci; Page (Nyc) (Manhattan, Ny, Gallery); Sparrow, Lucy (1986 ); Museum Of Modern Art; New York City; Agriculture Department; Tiktok (Bytedance); Hermes International Sa; Acne Studios; Day, Daniel (Dapper Dan); Red Bull; Am Labs Aps; Manhattan (Nyc); Culture (Arts); Restaurants; Beauty Salons; Travel And Vacations; Luxury Goods And Services; Counterfeit Merchandise; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Funerals And Memorials; Computers And The Internet; Sneakers; Skiing; Coffeehouses; Politics And Government; Drugstores; Herbs; Seasons And Months; Education (K 12); Stocks And Bonds; Textiles; Real Estate (Commercial); Comedy And Humor; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Home Repairs And Improvements; Forgery; Fast Food Industry; Exercise; Theater; Polls And Public Opinion; Protective Clothing And Gear; Advertising And Marketing; Law And Legislation; Skin; Labor And Jobs; Subways; Coronavirus Return To Office; Books And Literature; Pets; Shoes And Boots; New Year; Art; Hair; Recalls And Bans Of Products; Rats; Elections; Do It Yourself; Caffeine; Television; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Documentary Films And Programs; Two Thousand Twenty Three; Social Media; Quarantine (Life And Culture); Fashion And Apparel

Title: 13 Predictions for Life in 2023

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-08 @ 16:43

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761785277

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/13-predictions-life-2023/docview/2761785277/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Film Trailers, Not the Same Old Song: [Correction]

Author: Ducker, Eric

Publication info: Ducker, Eric. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/film-trailers-not-same-old-song/docview/2761602884/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Composers are increasingly in demand for trailerization -- reworking existing tracks by artists including Kate Bush, Nirvana and Kendrick Lamar to maximize their impact in film and TV previews.
David James Rosen's work has been streamed on YouTube hundreds of millions of times. He's played a crucial role in some of pop culture's biggest recent moments. But few people outside of the space where the entertainment and marketing industries overlap know his name.
As a composer, Rosen is at the forefront of the trailerization movement: He's in demand for his ability to rework existing songs to maximize their impact in trailers for films and TV shows.
He married vocals and motifs from Kate Bush's "Running Up That Hill" to a thunderous version of the "Stranger Things" theme in the lead-up to the second volume of the show's fourth season. He intertwined the Nigerian singer Tems's cover of "No Woman No Cry" with Kendrick Lamar's "Alright" in the teaser for "Black Panther: Wakanda Forever," symbolizing the meeting of the franchise's future and its legacy. He put a sinister singe on Taylor Swift's "It's Nice to Have a Friend" for the diabolical doll thriller "M3GAN." He added cosmic drama to Elton John's classic rock staple "Goodbye Yellow Brick Road" for the upcoming "Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania."
As potential viewers are inundated with an ever-growing number of options, studios have limited chances to build anticipation for their projects. At the same time, technological advances have made it easier than ever for products to stand out. "People want their film to have its own identity," Rosen said in an interview at a Los Angeles coffee shop. "The genie's out of the bottle as far as the limitless ability to customize something for your film. Clients, studios, agencies, whatever, they all know that and like to take advantage of it."
Rosen spent his 20s playing guitar in the New Jersey band the Parlor Mob. After moving to L.A. in 2014, he got a job as the in-house composer at a trailer house -- the specialized production companies behind these promos. Three years later, he co-founded Totem, a music library that creates custom tracks for trailers. Much of Rosen's output is original compositions, but the ones that get the most attention are his overhauls.
"Almost never does a song just drop into a trailer and work," he said. "Maybe it needs to feel more epic or more emotional, or maybe it needs to feel subtler with things pulled away."
Trailerization is a relatively new term and the distinctions within it are malleable. There are reimaginations, which are usually instrumental covers by composers. There are overlays, where elements are added to a song in varying degrees. Then there are remixes, where the source material is distinctly altered, often to shift the context.
Some distinguish between remixes and overlays by what the composer has to play with. If there's a full set of stems -- the separated digital parts that comprise a song -- it's a remix. If stems aren't available, it's an overlay.
Occasionally composers will be asked to create "invisible overlays," where they make adjustments that are imperceptible to most listeners but nudge a song toward a more wide-screen sound.
The trailerization process is now so common that even when a trailer uses the film's original score, it too will be adjusted. "Trailers are a mini version of the movie," said Cato, the one-named composer whose credits include performing a system update on Vangelis for the "Blade Runner 2049" trailer and giving Guns N' Roses an anguished-turned-pulverizing remix for Jason Momoa's Netflix revenge film "Sweet Girl."
"You have to suck people into the theater and tell a story in two-and-a-half minutes," Cato added. "That is so intense and builds so quickly that most music written for the actual movie will be way too long and drawn out."
IN THE PAST, trailers often relied on the scores of previously released films, but that practice has basically become verboten. Starting in the late 1970s, the composer John Beal pioneered original scores for trailers, but that required a recording studio full of musicians, making it a costly, resource-heavy endeavor. Today, with developments in software, it's easier than ever to simulate those sounds.
"I could sit at my computer at home and you wouldn't know that there wasn't a 100-piece orchestra there," Rosen said. "You couldn't do that 10 years ago."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Many point to the trailer for "The Social Network," from 2010 -- which featured a Belgian women's choir singing Radiohead's "Creep" -- as the origin of what became the trailerization trend. Its success incited a deluge of trailers using slow and sad covers of well-known songs, usually featuring female vocalists. Recent examples include Liza Anne's version of "Dreams" by the Cranberries for "Aftersun" and Bellsaint's interpretation of R.E.M.'s "Losing My Religion" for the second season of the "Chucky" TV series.
Sanaz Lavaedian, the senior vice president of music for the trailer house Mocean, said that when she entered the industry in 2011, there was still a lot of resistance from artists who didn't want their music used for commercial purposes. Covers provided a workaround. Now, as more musicians are struggling to make a living, they're often more open to trailers not just using their music but modifying it.
"There were so many bands that didn't think licensing was cool, so they never let us do it," Lavaedian said. "Now they're like, 'Oh, we're going to make half a million dollars on this? Nevermind."'
Many high profile trailerizations are applied to songs that are decades old: Remixes and overlays allow the trailers to tap into the nostalgia evoked by the original. "If we were able to remix an Elton John song or a Beatles song, these are iconic artists," Lavaedian said. "The second you hear their voice, you know who it is, and there's a lot of weight in that. More weight than if it were a cover."
The composer Bryce Miller's big breakthrough came in 2019 with the "Godzilla: King of the Monsters" trailer, which featured his custom orchestral rendition of "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" atop images of kaiju carnage. His subsequent credits include a modernization of Blondie's "Heart of Glass" for "House of Gucci," an orchestral blend of the Rolling Stones' "Paint It Black" and the "Addams Family Theme" for "Wednesday" and a haunting overlay for Nirvana's "Something in the Way" in "The Batman" trailer.
"As soon as I can get rid of dated-sounding guitars and drums, I can build a more contemporary production that is pulling from more pop music sounds," Miller said. "Older recordings sonically are a little thin and lack the heft that so many contemporary songs have."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Unique remixes began appearing in trailers going back to the mid-2010s, but it wasn't until the one for Jordan Peele's 2019 film "Us" that studios and audiences began to really take notice. In the fresh interpretation, with its piercing strings and moody atmospherics, a celebratory weed rap by the Oakland duo Luniz became deeply unsettling.
"Every once in a while we get one of those game-changer trailers," Lavaedian said. The "Us" trailer "is taking a song and deconstructing it down to its bones and then constructing it again to do what that film needed it to do. It was kind of groundbreaking."
MARK WOOLLEN, THE founder of the trailer house Mark Woollen & Associates, specializes in award-season films and was responsible for that transformative "Social Network" trailer. New York magazine once called him "the uncontested auteur of the trailer era."
In a phone interview, Woollen noted that in contemporary trailers, omniscient narration has largely disappeared (that means no more hackneyed "In a world ..." setups) and there's less dialogue from the film. Trailers "can be more impressionistic and elliptical in their storytelling," he said. "It's more about creating a feeling in a lot of the work."
As a result, the trailer's soundtrack has become increasingly crucial. "Music is sometimes 80 to 90 percent of the process to us," Woollen said. "It's trying to cast that right piece of music that's going to inspire and dictate rhythm and set tone and inform character and story, and hopefully make an impression."
For Amazon's recent love triangle "My Policeman," Woollen used Cat Power's "Sea of Love," which has become a romantic favorite among aging millennials. Though Cat Power's original interpretation was stripped down to just the singer Chan Marshall's voice and strums on an autoharp, Woollen had a composer overlay swelling strings as the drama became more fraught.
Beyond providing the vibes, a song is often selected for a trailer because the lyrics convey the film's narrative themes. Woollen didn't just select "Sea of Love" because it is mysterious and seductive. He was equally guided by the refrain "I want to tell you how much I love you" and the ambiguousness of who that "you" might be.
In Marvel's "The Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania" trailer, as the heroes realize the size of the predicament they've gotten themselves into, the sound design emphasizes Elton John singing, "I should have stayed on the farm/I should have listened to my old man."
Deciding which song a trailer uses and how it's employed can involve studio marketing executives, the filmmakers, the team at the trailer house and the composer. A trailer's creation can take years and is often covered by restrictive nondisclosure agreements, preventing the people behind it from discussing the details of making it, even after it has been released.
Because the material is so protected, the musicians rarely see the images that will be included in the trailer. Instead they have to rely on a music supervisor or creative director at a trailer house to guide them through inception and multiple rounds of revisions. "We're literally dealing with billions of dollars in unreleased assets," Lavaedian said of the footage from the films. "There's no way we can send that to a composer."
UNLESS YOU KNOW where to look on the internet, the pieces made by trailer composers are largely uncredited, and sometimes contractually so. Trailerizations are created "to live exclusively in the trailer," Rosen said. "They serve as a piece of marketing."
But that may be changing.
When the agency Trailer Park approached Miller about doing a trailerization for the first volume of the fourth season of "Stranger Things," he was told the general plot and tone of the episodes. He'd long wanted to do something with Journey's "Separate Ways (Worlds Apart)" and it turned out the song was on the agency's shortlist as well.
After spending months on his ominous remix, it made it to the final stages of the approval process where the original musicians had to sign off. Steve Perry, the song's singer, loved it and came to Miller's studio to help construct an extended remix. Then he got Netflix to release both versions on the official soundtrack, with Miller's name attached.
Miller called Perry inspiring and a joy to work with. "He's also like a runaway train. As soon as we finished 'Stranger Things,' he's like, 'What are we doing next?"' The pair collaborated again on a trailerization of Journey's "Any Way You Want It" for the Hulu series "Welcome to Chippendales."
Where will trailerization at large head next? Recently, there's been an interest in 1990s alternative rock hits, with remixes of Spacehog and the Toadies appearing in trailers for "Guardian of the Galaxy Volume 3" and "The Midnight Club." In the promo for "Babylon," the team of composers known as Superhuman created a Jazz Age-influenced interpretation of David Bowie's "Fame" that's almost as nutty as the film itself.
With decades of material to work with, Rosen hopes the trend continues. "There's more opportunity for creativity from me and other people," he said. "I view it as a new life for a lot of these artists' songs."
Photograph Above, the composer David James Rosen at his home in Los Angeles. Below, two of his semimodular analog synths, which he uses to help create music for movie trailers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE AND BELOW, MICHAEL TYRONE DELANEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR30.

Subject: Composers; Orchestras; Remixes (Sound recordings); Narrative theme; Motion pictures; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Singers; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

People: Lamar, Kendrick; John, Elton

Title: For Film Trailers, Not the Same Old Song:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.30

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 8, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761602884

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/film-trailers-not-same-old-song/docview/2761602884/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions