____________________________________________________________

Perspectives And Places, Intertwined: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Tillet, Salamishah

Publication info: Tillet, Salamishah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perspectives-places-intertwined/docview/3149133550/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As pop culture continues to fracture, our critic was drawn to art and performances that explored universal themes by way of specific settings.
The week of the presidential election, my 12-year-old daughter and I argued over when the next episode of "High Potential," a crime drama we realized we'd each been avidly watching without the other knowing, would air. Our ignorance stemmed from how we consumed it: She streamed it on the family-friendly Disney, and I on the adult-leaning Hulu, which also meant we caught new episodes after they premiered on ABC. Without a singular broadcast to bring us together, we had different viewing experiences.
After we figured it out (it's Tuesdays), I began to think about the other implications of our debate. Outside of the Super Bowl, very few events on television or elsewhere constitute a national pastime. Practically, this means that most of the year we have limited opportunities to form similar perspectives or create a standard prism through which we can interpret our culture and, by extension, our fellow citizens.
And while a lot of this year's best entertainment has explored such divisions, I've been drawn to works that delve into the hyperlocal -- settings that serve as animating forces or determinants of boundaries -- to broaden what we think of as the universal.
'Cowboy Carter'
According to Spotify, I listened to this album 29 days in a row, a streak that surprised even me. Though she refers to it as a "Beyoncé album" rather than a genre-specific country album, "Cowboy Carter" is one of the most personal of her albums, behind only "Lemonade." That's partly because the music, a mix of country, R&B, down-home blues and zydeco, is inherently nostalgic for and pulls from the sounds she heard growing up in Houston, where she attended and later sang at the Houston Rodeo.
It is also a throwback in other ways: Beyoncé used live instruments including the harmonica or Hammond organ, as well as natural sounds such as handclaps, horseshoe steps and even her nails. But, her biggest intervention was taking racist revisions to history head-on and reminding us that country music began as and continues to be Black music. Recognizing pioneers like Sister Rosetta Tharpe and Linda Martell, and featuring present-day Black country music singers, "Cowboy Carter" made history of its own. It was the first album by a Black woman to top Billboard's Country Albums chart and is tied with Michael Jackson's "Thriller" as the most-nominated Grammy album.
(Read our conversation about "Cowboy Carter" )
'Nickel Boys'
Filmed in Louisiana and based on a real-life reform school in segregated Florida, "Nickel Boys" is a cinematic experience that I don't know how to unsee. This is because the director RaMell Ross, as a follow-up to his 2018 Oscar-nominated documentary, "Hale County This Morning, This Evening," adapted Colson Whitehead's novel while also inventing his own visual aesthetic. Ross and the film's cinematographer, Jomo Fray, developed a "sentient perspective," which, through the use of camera devices like the Snorricam rig, and techniques like a 4:3 aspect ratio, gave life to daunting dramatic performances. It allows us to experience the tight hold this abusive institution has on Elwood (Ethan Herisse) and Turner (Brandon Wilson), two Black adolescent boys who are serving time there, as well as the tender friendship they form to survive.
(Read our profile of the "Nickel Boys" director )
'Evil Does Not Exist'
I waited several months for Ryusuke Hamaguchi's "Evil Does Not Exist" to arrive in American movie theaters. Unlike "Drive My Car," his adaptation of Haruki Murakami's short story about personal grief and public theater that won the 2022 Oscar for best international film, "Evil Does Not Exist" is an intentionally quiet meditation on family bonds in Mizubiki, a fictional forest town outside Tokyo that's under corporate attack. Hamaguchi plays with point of view by haunting and humanizing the landscape -- at times, our vantage point is the roots of the trees; at others, it is the long stretch of road seen only from the back of a pickup truck. It all leads us to ask, what are the real threats to this community: The developers who want to turn it into a glamping site, the water pollutants that inevitably come with such change, or the father who is so busy resisting that he fails to pay attention to his young daughter in her time of need?
(Read our review of "Evil Does Not Exist" )
Susan Kelechi Watson in 'Good Bones' and 'Blood Quilt'
In two entirely different plays on gentrification, the actress Susan Kelechi Watson ("This Is Us") returned to her New York theater beginnings this fall. Wielding a perfect blend of comedic timing and pastel-colored suits, Watson shined as the upwardly mobile Aisha in James Ijames's "Good Bones" at the Public Theater in September. As both a former resident of the city's public housing and a representative of developers seeking to replace it with a sports stadium, Watson played part-villain and part-victim with charisma and confidence. A few weeks after the show's closing, I saw her become Cassan, the anxious single mother and accommodating older sister in Katori Hall's "Blood Quilt" at Lincoln Center. In contrast to Aisha, Cassan is trying to do whatever she can to prevent the sale of her mother's home, a loss that would irreparably harm her family and the coastal Georgia island community she once called home.
(Read our reviews of "Good Bones" and "Blood Quilt ")
'Abbott Elementary'
This is the one show my entire family watches together as appointment TV. Maybe because I lived or worked in Philadelphia for 20 years, I adore how Quinta Brunson's show captures that city's attitude of grit, chutzpah, heckling and loyalty, traits I've tried to pass on to my kids. We all have a favorite character who sports Philly pride: the fastidious first-grade teacher Gregory (Tyler James Williams) for my husband and son; the cheeky principal, Ava (Janelle James), for me; and the iconoclastic custodian Mr. Johnson (William Stanford Davis) for my daughter. Four seasons in, we remain engrossed by the show's clever humor and constant reinvention. This year, gentrification arrives with the construction of a golf course that threatens to disrupt the harmony of the fictional Willard R. Abbott Elementary School. This show keeps getting better. Watching how the teachers and local activists work together to stave off displacement to save their Southwest Philadelphia community is a serious business that still makes us all smile.
(Read our essay on "Abbott Elementary" )
'Conclave'
In Vatican City, the smallest sovereign country and one of the most secretive places in the world, Cardinal-Dean Thomas Lawrence (Ralph Fiennes) leads the clandestine selection process for the next pope. Filled with Catholic Church intrigue, countless red herrings and a coveted ensemble cast, "Conclave" is the best type of political thriller, one that uses the specificity of its location, here the cloistered walls of the Sistine Chapel of the Apostolic Palace, to ground us in an alternate reality. The action is driven by the rules and rituals of a place that most people will never see, with the director Edward Berger using vivid colors and subtle choreography to symbolize their power. But the film's best moments come when the other cardinals -- and Sister Agnes (Isabella Rossellini) -- behave in ways that belie their dignified setting to block the professional ambitions of their peers.
(Read our review of "Conclave" )
'Blink Twice'
Patriarchy is questioned in the surprise ending of "Conclave," but it is entirely undone by the plot of Zoe Kravitz's film directorial debut, "Blink Twice." It's set on the fictional private island where Slater King (Channing Tatum), a tech billionaire recovering from a professional scandal, invites his wealthy male friends and a group of unsuspecting female guests. Starring Naomi Ackie as Frida and Alia Shawkat as her sidekick, Jess, the movie satirizes white-collar bro culture while exposing the sinister and surreal violence beneath its surface. The island is no paradise, but a prison of sorts where trauma, memory and cover-up collide.
(Read our review of "Blink Twice" )
Ken Leung in 'Industry'
HBO's "Industry" had its breakout in Season 3, as its 20-something stars continued to claw through London's finance sector. But it was Ken Leung's steady and delicious performance as Eric Tao that held my attention. The son of a Chinese factory worker, Tao makes partner at Pierpoint & Co., the investment firm where has worked for his entire 30-year career. But he has never been a true insider and spends most of his time attracting, mentoring and bruising the next crop of bankers, who, because of their backgrounds, also can never quite overcome the elite culture of banking or the narrow confines of the British class structure. Leung sinks his teeth into this amoral character, seamlessly switching from an inappropriate micromanager to an unscrupulous corporate climber, only to find himself a man in a foreign land without family, friends or the company to which he is faithful.
(Read about " Industry" Season 3)
'Somebody Somewhere'
Though based in Manhattan, Kan., this series never gets called a "red state show." Yes, the bucolic "Somebody Somewhere" shows visual reverence for the farmlands and flat plains of the Midwest, but its characters develop in the kinds of small flickers characteristic of prestige dramas. Friends or future lovers do a lot of walking on this show, often down long dirt roads or with their dogs. In such minor moments, we learn about Sam (Bridget Everett), a warm and wandering woman who has returned home from living in New York City after her sister's death. Through three seasons, she not only discovers herself and learns to love her singing voice, but she does so with the help of her people, including queer churchgoers/cabaret fans. On another show, they might be considered a band of outsiders, but here, they are cast as the center of a community that's a bit country and a bit cosmopolitan, fittingly nicknamed "the Little Apple."
(Read our interview with the creators of "Somebody Somewhere ")
'The Pop Out: Ken & Friends'
Spotify also told me I streamed Kendrick Lamar's record-breaking dis track against Drake, "Not Like Us," 100 times in one day. But it was his Juneteenth concert, aired live on Amazon from the Kia Forum in Inglewood, Calif., that I couldn't get over. Lamar's three-hour extravaganza showcased fellow Los Angeles rappers and D.J.s, achieving, somehow, neighborhood unity through collective enmity. Closing out the show by performing "Not Like Us" six consecutive times, he still managed a grand finale: He invited guest artists and gang rivals onto the stage for a group photo. As they playfully posed together, he revealed his true intention: "That's what this was about, to bring all of us together."
(Read our story on the concert, "The Pop Out: Ken & Friends" )
Photograph From top: Kendrick Lamar's Juneteenth concert in Inglewood, Calif.; Beyoncé, whose "Cowboy Carter" topped Billboard's Country Albums chart; Naomi Ackie and Channing Tatum in "Blink Twice"; and Bridget Everett in "Somebody Somewhere." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY NORRIS/GETTY IMAGES; REUTERS; CARLOS SOMONTE/AMAZON MGM STUDIOS; SANDY MORRIS/HBO) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Motion picture directors & producers; Thrillers; Gentrification; Country music

People: Watson, Susan Kelechi

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/23/arts/television/salamishah-tillet-kendrick-lamar-cowboy-carter.html

Title: Perspectives And Places, Intertwined:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 26, 2024

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3149133550

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perspectives-places-intertwined/docview/3149133550/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Carmakers Talking Merger. History Isn't on Their Side.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carmakers-talking-merger-history-isnt-on-their/docview/3148994950/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Japanese companies are considering joining forces to survive in a rapidly changing auto industry, but auto history is filled with troubled and failed marriages.
The Japanese automakers Honda and Nissan are discussing a possible merger, in a bid to share costs and help themselves compete in a fast-changing and increasingly competitive industry.
But a merger, even of two companies from the same country, is no guarantee of success, and the history of automotive deals is littered with failures and disappointments.
Combining two large, global manufacturing operations is an incredibly difficult feat that involves reconciling different technologies, models and approaches to doing business. A merger's success rests on getting ambitious managers and engineers who have spent decades competing with one another to cooperate. Teams and projects have to be scrapped or changed, and executives must cede power to others. In some cases, the merging companies are hamstrung by elected leaders who force them to keep operating money-losing factories.
Thomas Stallkamp, an automotive consultant based in Michigan, was involved in the struggles of one of the biggest auto mergers, the 1998 merger of Chrysler and the German company Daimler. Mr. Stallkamp spent years in senior roles at Chrysler and DaimlerChrysler.
"Car companies are big, complicated organizations, with large engineering staffs, manufacturing plants all over the world, hundreds of thousands of employees, in a capital-intensive business," Mr. Stallkamp said. "You try to put two of them together and you run into a lot of egos and infighting, so it's very, very difficult to make it work."
Honda and Nissan announced plans this year to work together on electric vehicles, and on Monday they formally began talks about extending that cooperation to a merger that could also include Mitsubishi Motors, a smaller manufacturer that works closely with Nissan. A pairing would unite Japan's second- and third-biggest automakers, after Toyota, and create a company that would be the third largest in the world by number of cars produced, after Toyota and Volkswagen.
The merger discussions were prompted by difficulties the companies are facing around the world.
Chief among those problems is that sales have plummeted in China, the world's largest auto market. Chinese car buyers are moving much more quickly to electric and plug-in hybrid cars and trucks than most industry experts had expected. Honda and Nissan offer few such models, which now account for more than half of all cars sold in China. Companies that are doing the best in the shift away from gasoline cars are domestic manufacturers like BYD and SAIC, as well as Tesla.
Last month, Honda said it expected net profit for the fiscal year ending in March to fall 14 percent, and lowered its forecast for global vehicle sales to 3.8 million from 3.9 million, largely as a result of its difficulties in China, which had once accounted for about a third of its sales.
Nissan has more significant troubles than Honda and in recent years has slogged through management upheaval. In the United States, a critical market where Nissan used to earn significant profits, the company's market share has fallen sharply as it struggles to sell cars and trucks that haven't received significant upgrades in recent years. In the period from April to September, Nissan's operating profit plunged 90 percent, and the automaker recently said it aimed to lose 9,000 employees worldwide and cut global production by about 20 percent.
A merger could help Honda and Nissan develop electric cars faster and at lower cost -- in theory. But other companies have struggled to achieve such gains in practice, often because the priorities of companies working together often shift and diverge. Ford Motor and Volkswagen teamed up a few years ago to work on electric vehicles and autonomous driving technology. But the companies shut down their self-driving car business and reaped few benefits from collaborating on electric vehicles.
Honda had a partnership with General Motors, and currently sells two electric sport utility vehicles, the Honda Prologue and Acura ZDX, that are manufactured by G.M. But the companies have decided not to extend the partnership beyond those two models, and G.M. is now exploring ways to work with Hyundai, the South Korean automaker.
Still, analysts said a merger of Honda and Nissan had the potential to help both companies. In the United States, the two companies have similar product lines focused on small and medium-size cars and sport utility vehicles like Nissan's Sentra, Altima and Rogue and Honda's Civic, Accord and CRV.
Sam Fiorani, a vice president at Auto Forecast Solutions, a research firm, said Nissan had the technology to build full-size pickup trucks bought by many Americans, something Honda lacks. "That's something that could be valuable for Honda in the future," he said.
On the production side, Nissan has two vehicle assembly plants in the United States and Honda has four. Each also has engine and transmission factories and engineering centers.
They could in theory reap savings by combining their operations, closing some plants and locations and eliminating jobs. But that's where the difficulties are likely to arise.
"That means one of the two merger partners is going to gut their development organization or scrap their engine program, and that where you always run into heavy resistance," Mr. Stallkamp said. "When it comes down to it, neither side wants to take the hit."
In many cases, downsizing measures run into political opposition because governments push companies to preserve jobs. Stellantis was formed in a 2021 merger of France's Peugeot and Fiat Chrysler, and the French and Italian governments have fought to keep the combined company from closing factories.
After some initial success, Stellantis this year has suffered a slump in vehicle sales and a drop in profit. The chief executive who helped shepherd the merger, Carlos Tavares, resigned this month. The company, now run by a board committee, is looking for a new top executive and scrapping parts of the strategy it put in place after the merger.
For more than two decades Nissan was the junior partner in an alliance with Renault. The partnership saved Nissan from collapse and helped it become profitable, but neither company saw the kind of long-term success that had been envisioned by Carlos Ghosn, who had led the alliance and served as chief executive of both companies.
Eventually, executives at Nissan chafed at being effectively controlled by Renault. In 2018, Mr. Ghosn was arrested and jailed in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing. He fled to Lebanon before a trial. Renault still owns a significant stake in Nissan, but the two don't work as closely together as they used to.
DaimlerChrysler faced few battles over closing plants, but struggled to merge a luxury carmaker with an automaker that made more affordable models. The combined company had a balky management structure that included two executives sharing power at the top, and with vast cultural differences between its German and American operations. The two sides separated in 2007 after nine years.
"It was a constant battle of egos on both sides," Mr. Stallkamp said.
Other partnerships that proved disappointing include BMW's takeover of Britain's Rover in the 1990s. Ford owned all or part of Jaguar Land Rover, Mazda and Volvo but sold those assets during and after the 2008 financial crisis.
A few automotive mergers have seemed to live up to expectations. Fiat Chrysler -- formed when Fiat, an Italian automaker, took over Chrysler as the American company was emerging from bankruptcy -- is one example of a merger that seemed to flourish. Under its chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, the Chrysler part of the business, which also included the Dodge, Jeep and Ram brands, recovered and became the more profitable half of the combined company.
The South Korean automakers Hyundai and Kia, which have been in an alliance since 1998, are together one of the world's largest automakers and have enjoyed strong growth in recent years. They share development, engineering and manufacturing resources, but have separate sales and marketing operations.
Marc Cannon, a consultant who was a senior executive at AutoNation, a large automotive retailer, said Honda and Nissan could try to emulate Hyundai and Kia, but he expressed doubts about how well the Japanese companies would fare.
"Honda is still a great brand with great products. Nissan's brand has been damaged with all the turmoil they've had in the last few years, and their quality is not great," Mr. Cannon said. "So it doesn't make that much sense to me. Why would Honda be interested in taking on Nissan's problems?"
Photograph From left, the chief executives of Nissan, Makoto Uchida; Honda, Toshihiro Mibe; and Mitsubishi Motors, Takao Kato. Nissan and Honda may merge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCK ROBICHON/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Manufacturing; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Automobile sales Executives

Location: China; United States--US; Japan

Company / organization: Name: Fiat Group Automobile SpA; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: DaimlerChrysler; NAICS: 336110; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/24/business/honda-nissan-auto-merger-deals.html

Title: Carmakers Talking Merger. History Isn't on Their Side.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 25, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148994950

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carmakers-talking-merger-history-isnt-on-their/docview/3148994950/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Automakers Struggle With Market Shift and Competition From China: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/automakers-struggle-with-market-shift-competition/docview/3144468476/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Changing technology, political turmoil and competition from China are cutting into profits and forcing carmakers to cut jobs and close factories.
A few years ago, automakers were celebrating record profits as the pandemic created shortages of new cars, allowing them to raise prices. Now the hangover is setting in.
Nissan, the Japanese automaker, is laying off 9,000 employees. Volkswagen is considering closing factories in Germany for the first time. The chief executive of the U.S. and European automaker Stellantis, which owns Jeep, Peugeot, Fiat and other brands, quit after sales tumbled. Even luxury brands like BMW and Mercedes-Benz are struggling.
Each carmaker has its own problems, but there are some common threads. They include a tricky and expensive technological transition, political turmoil, rising protectionism and the emergence of a new class of fast-growing Chinese carmakers. The many woes raise questions about the future of companies that are a critical source of jobs in many Western and Asian countries.
Many of these problems have been apparent for years but became less pressing during the pandemic, lulling some automakers into complacency. When shortages of semiconductors and other components slowed production and limited inventory, carmakers found it easy to raise prices.
But that era is over and the industry has reverted to its prepandemic state, with too many carmakers chasing too few buyers.
Many car factories around the world are making many fewer cars than they were built to produce. When automakers don't earn a decent return on their factories and machines, there is "a massive effect on profitability," said Simon Croom, a professor of supply chain management at the University of San Diego. "The difference between profit and loss is a very fine line in the auto industry."
Workers are among the first to suffer in an industry that employs nine million people worldwide in manufacturing, including around a million in the United States. More than two million more Americans work for dealers and related businesses.
Nissan, which has factories in Mississippi and Tennessee, has not detailed where its layoffs will take place. It is not alone in cutting jobs. Ford last month announced 4,000 job cuts, mostly at factories in Britain and Germany. The company cited "unprecedented competitive, regulatory, and economic headwinds."
Ford was partly referring to Chinese carmakers. Barely a factor before the pandemic, they have charged into the international market with cars that can match Japanese, European or American vehicles on quality, at much lower prices.
BYD, Chery, SAIC and other Chinese carmakers are still effectively barred from the United States by trade rules and hobbled by tariffs in Europe. But they are pushing into places like Australia, Brazil, Chile and Thailand, luring buyers away from the likes of Fiat, General Motors and Toyota.
Competition from China is "starting to hit the safe places that Western carmakers had," said Felipe Munoz, global analyst at JATO Dynamics, a research firm.
Inside China, the world's largest car market, domestic manufacturers have stolen the limelight from foreign carmakers with over-the-top options like those offered by BYD in its Yangwang U8, a plug-in hybrid off-road vehicle.
The U8 can stay afloat for up to 30 minutes in a flood, according to the company, and its wheels can be set to roll so that the vehicle can rotate 360 degrees while remaining in the same spot.
The rise of Chinese automakers has been particularly tough on German carmakers. Volkswagen gets one-third of its sales from China and once dominated that market. But the company's deliveries there plunged 10 percent in the first nine months of this year, compared with 2023.
BMW and Mercedes-Benz have also reported big sales declines in China recently, which they blamed for lower profits.
American carmakers have also suffered from this shift. G.M. said this month that it would take a more than $ 5 billion hit to its profit as it restructured its Chinese operations, which have been losing money.
Companies that were slow to replace aging models are doing worst. That has been the case for Nissan, Stellantis and even Tesla, which analysts expect to end the year with sales that are roughly unchanged from 2023. Others have struggled to build appealing electric vehicles and develop software, an increasingly important element of car design.
Volkswagen was among the first established carmakers to develop electric vehicles, but the models underwhelmed buyers and critics. Sales in the United States of the company's ID.4 sport-utility vehicle plunged by more than half in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to Kelley Blue Book. Buggy software handicapped sales of the ID.4 and other electric models that Volkswagen sells in Europe and Asia.
"The Chinese are winning market share and the Germans are losing," said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, director of the Center for Automotive Research in Bochum, Germany. "It's not only the electric cars, it's the software in the cars."
Changing government policy is adding to the carmakers' woes. Sales of electric vehicles plunged in Germany after the government, facing a budget crisis, abruptly eliminated financial incentives.
In the United States, President-elect Donald J. Trump and Republicans in Congress want to repeal Biden-era tax credits designed to promote electric vehicles. The shifts in policy endanger the hundreds of billions of dollars that G.M., Hyundai-Kia, Volkswagen and others have invested in new factories and cars.
"The auto industry has had to dish out a lot of capital for an underwhelming E.V. market and one that may well change in the next six months," said Erin Keating, an executive analyst at Cox Automotive, a research firm.
Mr. Trump has also threatened to impose tariffs on imports from China, Mexico and Canada. China is an important source of components for virtually all carmakers. Mexico is an important manufacturing center for BMW, G.M., Ford, Stellantis, Volkswagen and others, shipping two million vehicles to the United States in the first nine months of the year.
Not all car companies are doing poorly. G.M. shares have risen more than 40 percent this year, while shares of most automakers have fallen. In part, Wall Street is rewarding G.M. for popular electric vehicles like the Cadillac Lyriq and Chevrolet Equinox. Mary T. Barra, the G.M. chief executive, has said the company is close to making a profit on electric vehicles, unlike other American carmakers excluding Tesla.
But G.M. is also retrenching, announcing last week that it would stop developing robotaxis, autonomous vehicles that can carry passengers without drivers. The decision raised questions about whether established carmakers can compete with Tesla and Waymo, a division of Google's parent company, in the next generation of automotive technology.
Toyota's strategy of doubling down on hybrids, while offering few all-electric cars, also appears to be paying off -- at least for now. Many buyers are choosing hybrids, which cost a lot less than electric vehicles and don't need to be charged, as a way to reduce emissions and fuel expenses.
But Toyota could be left behind if sales of electric vehicles grow faster than market analysts expect. Prices for battery-powered vehicles are dropping while the distance they can travel on a charge is growing. In China, electric vehicles are already cheaper than comparable gasoline models. More than half of new cars sold there are electric or plug-in hybrids.
Carmakers are trying to adapt. Stellantis, whose chief executive, Carlos Tavares, quit this month, has new models lined up for 2025. They include several electric vehicles, among them Jeeps, Ram pickups and a Dodge Charger muscle car. The company is also working to repair its relationship with dealers who feel that Stellantis waited too long to lower prices and offer incentives to help them sell cars that were piling up on their lots.
John Elkann, the chairman of Stellantis, held a virtual meeting with U.S. dealers after Mr. Tavares's resignation. Later, the Stellantis National Dealer Council issued a statement expressing optimism that "2025 will mark a turning point."
Attempts to reach Mr. Tavares for comment were unsuccessful.
Market pressures will prompt carmakers to cooperate with one another more, for example, by sharing the costs of engine development, said K. Venkatesh Prasad, the senior vice president of research at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
"You're seeing some of this already," he said.
Makoto Uchida, Nissan's chief executive, said last month that the company would reduce the time it takes to develop a new vehicle by working more closely with its partners Renault, Mitsubishi and Honda.
Volkswagen is trying to solve its software problems by investing in Rivian, which makes electric pickups and sport utility vehicles in Illinois.
Western carmakers are also making deals with Chinese automakers. Volkswagen will develop new models with Xpeng to sell in China. Last year, Stellantis bought a 20 percent stake in Leapmotor and has begun selling the Chinese company's electric vehicles in Europe.
"If you can't beat 'em," Mr. Dudenhöffer said, "join 'em."
Photograph BMWs charging at a plant in San Luis Potosí, Mexico. BMW reported sales declines in China, which was blamed for lower profits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENEDICTE DESRUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Tariffs; Manufacturing; Corporate profits; Automobile sales; Profitability; Automobile dealers; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Tariffs Manufacturing Corporate profits Automobile sales Profitability Automobile dealers Equity stake

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Germany; China; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Center for Automotive Research; NAICS: 541380, 541715; Name: Fiat Group Automobile SpA; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: Mercedes-Benz Group AG; NAICS: 336110; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/14/business/automakers-trouble.html

Title: Automakers Struggle With Market Shift and Competition From China:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144468476

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/automakers-struggle-with-market-shift-competition/docview/3144468476/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Factory Farms Are Our Best Hope for Feeding the Planet: [Op-Ed]

Author: Grunwald, Michael

Publication info: Grunwald, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/factory-farms-are-our-best-hope-feeding-planet/docview/3144468433/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This is the final essay in What to Eat on a Burning Planet, a series exploring bold ideas to secure our food supply. Read more about this project in a note from Eliza Barclay, Opinion's climate editor.
"Industrial agriculture" is a phrase used to signify "bad," evoking toxic chemicals, monoculture crops, confined animals, the death of the small family farm and all kinds of images people don't like to associate with their food. Factory farms are a constant target of environmentalists, documentarians, animal rights activists, spiritual leaders like Pope Francis and the Indian mystic Sadhguru, and leftist politicians like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Bernie Sanders.
Even the manosphere podcaster Joe Rogan has called for banning them, while Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Donald Trump's pick for health secretary, has blamed industrial agriculture for making us sick and fat. The United Nations has pointed out that it does $ 3 trillion in damage to the global environment a year.
Agriculture in general does have real environmental downsides. It's the leading driver of water pollution and shortages, deforestation and biodiversity loss. It generates one-fourth of the greenhouse gases that heat up the planet.
And it's eating the earth. It has already overrun about two of every five acres of land on the planet, and farmers are on track to clear an additional dozen Californias worth of forest by 2050. That would be a disaster for nature and the climate, because the carbon dioxide released by converting wild landscapes into farms and pastures is already the most damaging source of agricultural emissions, worse than methane from cow burps or nitrous oxide from fertilizer.
But industrial agriculture in particular has one real upside: It produces enormous amounts of food on relatively modest amounts of land. And that will be agriculture's most vital job in the coming decades. The world will need even more enormous amounts of food by 2050, about 50 percent more calories to adequately feed nearly 10 billion people. The inconvenient truth is that factory farms are the best hope for producing the food we will need without obliterating what's left of our natural treasures and vaporizing their carbon into the atmosphere.
It's true that if we ate less meat and grew fewer biofuels, we would reduce agriculture's hunger for land. But the reality is we show no signs of doing that -- meat consumption is only projected to rise in the coming years.
So we'll have to make more food per acre instead of using more acres to make food. And that's what industrial agriculture does well. Its fertilizers and irrigation systems turbocharge production. Its pesticides and herbicides kill bugs and weeds that stunt crop growth. Its GPS-enabled tractors help farmers plant high-yield seeds precisely where they want. And its factory farms -- which exploit modern advances in genetics, nutrition and veterinary care to cram trillions of calories into billions of animals -- manufacture prodigious quantities of relatively cheap commodities.
That, after all, is what factories do.
Ideally, Big Ag could make even more food with even less land while doing less to harm the environment. But these days, the politically correct stance toward Big Ag is not to reform it but to replace it. Environmentalists such as Al Gore and Jane Goodall, foodies like Alice Waters and Michael Pollan and even agribusinesses and food conglomerates like General Mills and Danone talk about supplanting industrial methods with kinder and gentler "regenerative agriculture" that revives the pastoral wisdom of our ancestors. The Biden administration has blasted more than $ 20 billion into "climate-smart agriculture" focused on regenerative practices. Mr. Kennedy has called for a Trump-led regenerative revolution.
But that's a formula for agriculture to devour even more of the earth. Old MacDonald-style farms where soil is nurtured with love and animals have names rather than numbers may sound environmentally friendly. But their artisanal grains and grass-fed beef are worse for nature than chemical-drenched corn and feedlot-fattened beef because they require much more land for each calorie they produce. In 2021, Sri Lanka's president banned agricultural chemicals in an effort to force its farmers to go organic, vowing to end industrial farming and get in "sync with nature." Then farm yields crashed, plunging the country into a food crisis and forcing it to import calories it used to grow itself.
Europe and the United States are flirting with back-to-nature agriculture, too, but that would ultimately just outsource more production, pollution and deforestation to the developing world. Big industrial agriculture has plenty of shortcomings, too, but most of them have less to do with "big" or "industrial" than "agriculture," which has always made a mess.
We tend to think of our transformation of the earth as a modern phenomenon wrought by industrial advances such as private jets and factory farms, but recent scholarship suggests it actually began with the invention of agriculture about 12,000 years ago. Early farmers didn't need tractors or chemicals to reshape their environment. They subdued nature with fire and the ax, converting wilderness into crops and pastures that supported a much larger population. By the dawn of the fossil-fuel era, they had already cleared a South America worth of wilderness.
Scientists have used ice cores and ancient pollen samples to show that preindustrial farming and the deforestation that made room for it also changed the climate, likely emitting enough carbon to avert another ice age. Indigenous people deforested so much of the Americas to grow crops that when they mostly died out after European contact, forests on their abandoned farmland grew back so quickly and reabsorbed so much carbon that it created measurable global cooling. Their disappearance helped nature reclaim some territory, however briefly.
Agriculture didn't change much until the 1960s, when the agronomist Norman Borlaug bred a higher-yielding variety of wheat. That was the beginning of the Green Revolution, a new era of disruption that brought farmers chemical pesticides, powerful fertilizers, advanced automation, large-scale irrigation and other innovations that helped triple their crop and livestock yields in half a century.
The Green Revolution made big industrial agriculture possible, and its productivity saved billions of people from malnutrition and starvation. It did create environmental problems -- soil erosion, air and water pollution from pesticides and herbicides, mountains of manure leaching off overcrowded feedlots. But even though its soybeans and cattle have often invaded forests and wetlands, its higher yields have spared billions of additional acres of the planet's ecosystems from destruction, by making more food on existing farmland. The Green Revolution didn't end deforestation, but few forests would still be standing without it.
The key point, obscured by our cultural nostalgia for the quaint farmsteads of yesteryear, is that old-fashioned agriculture made much more of a mess when it replaced nature than intensive industrial agriculture makes when it replaces old-fashioned agriculture. Every farm, even the scenic ones with red barns and rolling hills that artists paint and writers sentimentalize, is a kind of environmental crime scene, an echo of whatever carbon-rich wilderness it once replaced.
Dirk Rice's great-great-grandfather was one of the pioneers who converted the Grand Prairie of east-central Illinois from a soggy expanse of marshy grasslands into a breadbasket with their bare hands. Mr. Rice still grows corn and soybeans on 200 acres of the prairie his ancestors wrestled away from Mother Nature, but that ancestral land now makes up just one-tenth of his farm; the only farmers he knows with 200 acres or less work full-time jobs in town. He installs drains with a laser-guided tile plow, works his fields with a 320-horsepower tractor, and grows remarkable amounts of grain.
"Back in my great-great-grandfather's day, men were men and horsepower was horse power," Mr. Rice told me. "Got to say, though, we get better yields."
The story of the Midwestern Corn Belt, and of agriculture throughout the developed world, is a story of steadily increasing efficiency and scale toward mega-yielding megafarms. When I visited his farm a few years ago, Mr. Rice showed me his father's tricycle-red Farmall 400 tractor, a technological marvel from before the Green Revolution. It was about the size of a Kia Soul. Then he showed me his John Deere combine, which weighed as much as 10 Kia Souls. It looked like a Zamboni on steroids, with a yield monitor on a touch-screen and a grain cart that held more corn than a semi truck.
"My grandfather ruined his shoulder shucking corn," Mr. Rice said. "This thing picks corn, strips it, sorts it, weighs it and measures the moisture content of its kernels. And this is probably the smallest one John Deere makes."
That combine helps Mr. Rice harvest 220 bushels of corn per acre, five times the yields his grandfather got. And his operation is typical for the area; I visited a nearby corn grower with an even more advanced 500-horsepower combine who gets 25 percent higher yields. The more grain their farms can grow for the world, the less new farmland will need to be wrestled away from Mother Nature on the other side of the planet.
So we're going to need to increase yields a lot. And since most of the Green Revolution's advances have already spread across most of the planet, that will be much harder than it was the first time. Meanwhile, climate change itself threatens to drag down yields as extreme weather intensifies and pests and diseases invade new regions.
Somehow, though, our farms are going to have to become even more productive -- especially our industrial animal farms. Just as Willie Sutton robbed banks because that's where the money was, any strategy to reduce agriculture's footprint will have to focus on higher-yield meat because three-fourths of agricultural land is now used to feed livestock.
Steve Gabel knows beef has a bad reputation, which is why an "I ð¤ Beef" sign greets visitors to his Magnum Feedyard in northeastern Colorado. He also knows factory feedlots where multitudes of confined cattle get stuffed full of grain before getting shipped off to slaughter have an even worse reputation, which is why he wanted to show me real industrial beef production. He drove me to the middle of his outdoor lot, amid a black and brown sea of ear-tagged cattle, and rolled down the windows of his mud-splattered Chevy Silverado.
"You hear that?" asked Mr. Gabel, a gruff prairie lifer with a white goatee, chewing a toothpick and staring me down. I wasn't going to lie to him.
"Uh, I don't hear anything," I said.
"Exactly!" he shot back. "You're surrounded by 25,000 animals. You think any of them were mistreated today?"
Feedlot cattle generally do get treated better than factory-farmed chickens or pigs, in part because they spend most of their lives grazing grass before getting sent to operations like Magnum. But Mr. Gabel's point was less about animal welfare than about efficiency, his North Star.
Mistreating the "beef animals," his unemotional term for his factors of production, is inefficient. Stressing them out: also inefficient. Even making them walk through mud or manure to their troughs is inefficient, which is why he was building a multimillion-dollar drainage system to keep his pens dry, and why he had tractors tricked out like snowplows to scrape manure into piles. He sends riders on horseback into every pen every day to make sure every heifer and steer is healthy and comfortable.
"If I don't create the friendliest possible environment for the animals, they might gain 4.1 pounds a day instead of 4.5. That's money out of my pocket!" he said. "We maximize our efficiency, so they can maximize their genetic potential."
Not only is Mr. Gabel's industrial efficiency better for his bottom line, it's better for the planet. Cattle are terribly inefficient converters of their feed into our food. They use about 10 times as much land as chicken or pork, and nearly 100 times as much as plant protein. But that makes beef an inviting target for reducing land use and other environmental impacts. And while industrial pork and chicken operations are already so ruthlessly efficient that it may not be biologically possible to get pigs or poultry much fatter much faster, beef still has room for improvement.
In general, beef from cattle that spend their last few months eating grain in feedlots is better for the environment than supposedly green, grass-fed beef from cattle that spend their entire lives in pastures -- partly because grass-fed cattle take longer to reach slaughter weight, so they burp more methane and use more water, but mostly because grain-finished cattle use less land per pound of meat. And Mr. Gabel has reduced the amount of feed he needs to grow a pound of beef by a third since 1994, so his cattle use even less land.
Part of his secret is using "Moneyball"-style analytics to optimize protein production. He told me without checking notes that he uses 10.23 gallons of water per head per day, his finishing feed is 72.5 percent corn, and his on-site mill converts kernels into flakes at 208 degrees Fahrenheit, increasing their digestibility to 95 percent.
He seemed to know about every cow on his lot with a case of foot rot or diarrhea. He sounded like the busybody mayor of a town whose residents all had hooves, hides and execution dates at a nearby JBS slaughterhouse.
But even though Magnum is a family business Mr. Gabel runs with his wife and two children, it's Big Ag, too, growing tenfold in three decades, unlocking efficiencies through economies of scale.
Originally, it held only 3,500 cattle -- not enough to justify an on-site mill, costly drainage projects or state-of-the-art manure lagoons that limit its pollution. Now Mr. Gabel has veterinary, nutritional and environmental consultants, a hospital with electronic medical records for every cow that passes through his property, and 10,000 acres of corn and alfalfa fields where he can spread his manure. Today, Magnum is in the top 1 percent of U.S. cattle operations, and that top 1 percent feeds half of U.S. cattle.
"Being big doesn't make us evil," Mr. Gabel said. "It makes us efficient."
Beef's inherent inefficiency makes it worse for the climate than other foods, but Mr. Gabel's focus on efficiency makes his high-yield beef better for the climate than other low-yield beef. If we're going to keep stuffing our faces with skirt steaks and Quarter Pounders, factory farms can help reduce the damage of our diets.
It would be lovely if we could have guilt-free beef, if our diets didn't do any damage. That's the fantasy the regenerative movement pushes: By farming in harmony with nature, we can sequester billions of tons of carbon in our soils, transforming agriculture from an environmental problem to a climate solution.
"Carbon farming" is the hottest trend in agriculture, backed by Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Gore, celebrities such as Jason Momoa and Gisele Bündchen, the United Nations and the World Bank, and even agribusinesses like Archer Daniels Midland, Tyson, Bayer and Cargill that want to look green. Farmers who plant cover crops and reduce their tillage are selling credits on the carbon market to companies looking to offset their emissions, while regenerative brands such as TruBeef claim their cattle have no impact on the climate.
But carbon farming has been wildly oversold as a climate solution. Soil carbon is incredibly difficult to measure, monitor and keep underground, and there's little evidence that Mr. Biden's "climate-smart" efforts to scale up regenerative practices like no-till are actually climate-smart. Storing more carbon in soils turns out to require adding more nitrogen to soils -- and adding nitrogen usually warms the climate.
Unfortunately, there's no magic solution to the problem of agriculture. We need it to make our food, and it can't do that without using some land and doing some damage. But the world already spends more than $ 300 billion a year on subsidies, tax breaks and other handouts to farmers, and it could spend that money in climate-friendlier ways.
A coalition of philanthropies -- including the Rockefeller Foundation, which financed the work by Mr. Borlaug that set off the Green Revolution -- has called for the world to spend $ 4.3 trillion over the next decade to transition away from industrial agriculture. But what if that kind of money was deployed to help finance a new Green Revolution that was truly green?
Governments could encourage all kinds of land-sparing and emissions-reducing approaches, whether or not they jibe with our cultural stereotypes of wholesome farming. Hundreds of startups are using genetic engineering tools like CRISPR to reprogram crops for higher yields, better resistance to pests, fungi and disease, and higher tolerance of heat, drought and floods.
Terviva, a startup in Alameda, Calif., has commercialized a super-tree called pongamia that produces soybean-like seeds with higher yields on lousy land. Pivot Bio in Berkeley, Calif., developed an alternative fertilizer that uses genetically edited microbes instead of chemicals to feed nitrogen to crops. Boston-based GreenLight Biosciences harnessed the RNA tech behind the Covid vaccines for a biopesticide that constipates crop-killing potato beetles to death without poisoning the soil. And in Brazil, I visited crop-and-cattle ranches that integrated regenerative farming and grazing practices with conventional industrial practices to produce immense yields that have helped spare the Amazon.
The public sector can help accelerate all those innovations, and can help spread the original Green Revolution to countries left behind. But carrots alone won't relieve the pressure on nature. Denmark recently unveiled sweeping new reforms that include a very big stick: a nationwide tax on agricultural emissions. The revenues will be earmarked to help its already efficient farmers get even more efficient, and eventually restore nearly one-fifth of its farmland to forests and wetlands, which is why it attracted support from Denmark's agricultural as well as environmental lobbies.
Of course, Denmark already had some of the world's strictest climate laws, and was decarbonizing the rest of its economy so fast that its farmers were under unusually intense pressure to start doing their part. Most of the world isn't Denmark. Farmers elsewhere in Europe have blockaded major roads with tractors and piles of manure to bully politicians into reversing green regulations. Mr. Trump has also made it clear that he also intends to roll back Democratic climate policies; it's much less clear whether he shares Mr. Kennedy's interest in reducing industrial agriculture's impacts.
The goal should be to produce more and protect more. Rich countries that already deforested their arable land long ago should help poor countries improve their yields and protect their own forests, but the money should flow only on the condition that the forests are actually protected.
The developed world can also attach strings to its own agricultural subsidies, withholding aid from farmers who mistreat animals and workers, overuse antibiotics or flout environmental regulations. The largest 6 percent of American farms manufacture three-fourths of our food, and factory farms produce almost all our animal protein; it's unrealistic to expect them to go away, but maybe in exchange for all the money we throw at them, they could do less harm.
What the world really needs is a vibe shift. Most people who don't farm don't think much about agriculture, and we've fallen into a trap of assuming there's virtuous agriculture and evil agriculture, just like clean energy and dirty energy. Instead, we should think of all farming as a necessary evil. It makes our food and it makes a mess. We should try to confine it, so that it doesn't keep overrunning nature.
But there's no point in demonizing the industrial farmers who make the most food. We should just insist that they make less mess.
Michael Grunwald is a journalist and the author of the forthcoming book "We Are Eating the Earth."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
A journalist and author whose next book, "We Are Eating the Earth," will be published in 2025.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD HAMILTON SMITH, XENOTAR AND FOTOFORCE/GETTY IMAGES) (SR6-SR7) This article appeared in print on page SR6, SR7.

Subject: Agriculture; Agricultural production; Food; Factory farming; Farms; Agribusiness; Crops; Environmental impact; Deforestation; Food supply; Food security

Business indexing term: Subject: Agribusiness Food supply Food security

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/13/opinion/food-agriculture-factory-farms-climate-change.html

Title: Factory Farms Are Our Best Hope for Feeding the Planet:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 15, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3144468433

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/factory-farms-are-our-best-hope-feeding-planet/docview/3144468433/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Automakers Thrived in the Pandemic. Many Are Now Struggling.

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/automakers-thrived-pandemic-many-are-now/docview/3144409336/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A few years ago, automakers were celebrating record profits as the pandemic created shortages of new cars, allowing them to raise prices. Now the hangover is setting in.
Nissan, the Japanese automaker, is laying off 9,000 employees. Volkswagen is considering closing factories in Germany for the first time. The CEO of U.S. and European automaker Stellantis, which owns Jeep, Peugeot, Fiat and other brands, quit after sales tumbled. Even luxury brands including BMW and Mercedes-Benz are struggling.
Each carmaker has its own problems, but there are some common threads. They include a tricky and expensive technological transition, political turmoil, rising protectionism and the emergence of a new class of fast-growing Chinese carmakers. The many woes raise questions about the future of companies that are a crucial source of jobs in many Western and Asian countries.
Many of these problems have been apparent for years but became less pressing during the pandemic, lulling some automakers into complacency. When shortages of semiconductors and other components slowed production and limited inventory, carmakers found it easy to raise prices.
But that era is over and the industry has reverted to its prepandemic state, with too many carmakers chasing too few buyers.
Many car factories worldwide are making many fewer cars than they were built to produce. When automakers don’t earn a decent return on their factories and machines, there is “a massive effect on profitability,” said Simon Croom, a professor of supply chain management at the University of San Diego. “The difference between profit and loss is a very fine line in the auto industry.”
Workers are among the first to suffer in an industry that employs 9 million people worldwide in manufacturing, including about 1 million in the United States. More than 2 million more Americans work for dealers and related businesses.
Nissan, which has factories in Mississippi and Tennessee, has not detailed where its layoffs will take place. It is not alone in cutting jobs. Ford last month announced 4,000 job cuts, mostly at factories in Britain and Germany. The company cited “unprecedented competitive, regulatory and economic headwinds.”
Ford was partly referring to Chinese carmakers. Barely a factor before the pandemic, they have charged into the international market with cars that can match Japanese, European or American vehicles on quality, at much lower prices.
BYD, Chery, SAIC and other Chinese carmakers are still effectively barred from the United States by trade rules and hobbled by tariffs in Europe. But they are pushing into places like Australia, Brazil, Chile and Thailand, luring buyers away from the likes of Fiat, General Motors and Toyota.
Competition from China is “starting to the hit the safe places that Western carmakers had,” said Felipe Munoz, global analyst at JATO Dynamics, a research firm.
Inside China, the world’s largest car market, domestic manufacturers have stolen the limelight from foreign carmakers with over-the-top options like those offered by BYD in its Yangwang U8, a plug-in hybrid off-road vehicle.
The U8 can stay afloat for up to 30 minutes in a flood, according to the company, and its wheels can be set to roll so that the vehicle can rotate 360 degrees while remaining in the same spot.
The rise of Chinese automakers has been particularly tough on German carmakers. Volkswagen gets one-third of its sales from China and once dominated that market. But the company’s deliveries there plunged 10% in the first nine months of this year, compared with 2023.
BMW and Mercedes-Benz have also reported big sales declines in China recently, which they blamed for lower profits.
U.S. carmakers have also suffered from this shift. GM said this month that it would take a more than $5 billion hit to its profit as it restructured its Chinese operations, which have been losing money.
Companies that were slow to replace aging models are doing worst. That has been the case for Nissan, Stellantis and even Tesla, which analysts expect to end the year with sales that are roughly unchanged from 2023. Others have struggled to build appealing electric vehicles and develop software, an increasingly important element of car design.
Volkswagen was among the first established carmakers to develop electric vehicles, but the models underwhelmed buyers and critics. Sales in the United States of the company’s ID.4 SUV plunged by more than half in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to Kelley Blue Book. Buggy software handicapped sales of the ID.4 and other electric models that Volkswagen sells in Europe and Asia.
“The Chinese are winning market share and the Germans are losing,” said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, director of the Center for Automotive Research in Bochum, Germany. “It’s not only the electric cars, it’s the software in the cars.”
Changing government policy is adding to carmakers’ woes. Sales of electric vehicles plunged in Germany after the government, facing a budget crisis, abruptly eliminated financial incentives.
In the United States, President-elect Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress want to repeal Biden-era tax credits designed to promote electric vehicles. The shifts in policy endanger the hundreds of billions of dollars that GM, Hyundai-Kia, Volkswagen and others have invested in new factories and cars.
“The auto industry has had to dish out a lot of capital for an underwhelming EV market and one that may well change in the next six months,” said Erin Keating, an executive analyst at Cox Automotive, a research firm.
Trump has also threatened to impose tariffs on imports from China, Mexico and Canada. China is an important source of components for virtually all carmakers. Mexico is an important manufacturing center for BMW, GM, Ford, Stellantis, Volkswagen and others, shipping 2 million vehicles to the United States in the first nine months of the year.
Not all car companies are doing poorly. GM shares have risen more than 40% this year, while shares of most automakers have fallen. In part, Wall Street is rewarding GM for popular electric vehicles like the Cadillac Lyriq and Chevrolet Equinox. GM CEO Mary T. Barra has said the company is close to making a profit on electric vehicles, unlike other U.S. carmakers excluding Tesla.
But GM is also retrenching, announcing last week that it would stop developing robotaxis, autonomous vehicles that can carry passengers without drivers. The decision raised questions about whether established carmakers can compete with Tesla and Waymo, a division of Google’s parent company, in the next generation of automotive technology.
Toyota’s strategy of doubling down on hybrids, while offering few all-electric cars, also appears to be paying off — at least for now. Many buyers are choosing hybrids, which cost a lot less than electric vehicles and don’t need to be charged, as a way to reduce emissions and fuel expenses.
But Toyota could be left behind if sales of electric vehicles grow faster than market analysts expect. Prices for battery-powered vehicles are dropping while the distance they can travel on a charge is growing. In China, electric vehicles are already cheaper than comparable gasoline models. More than half of new cars sold there are electric or plug-in hybrids.
Carmakers are trying to adapt. Stellantis, whose CEO, Carlos Tavares, quit this month, has new models lined up for 2025. They include several electric vehicles, among them Jeeps, Ram pickups and a Dodge Charger muscle car. The company is also working to repair its relationship with dealers that feel that Stellantis waited too long to lower prices and offer incentives to help them sell cars that were piling up on their lots.
John Elkann, chair of Stellantis, held a virtual meeting with U.S. dealers after Tavares’ resignation. Later, the Stellantis National Dealer Council issued a statement expressing optimism that “2025 will mark a turning point.”
Attempts to reach Tavares for comment were unsuccessful.
Market pressures will prompt carmakers to cooperate with one another more, for example, by sharing the costs of engine development, said K. Venkatesh Prasad, senior vice president of research at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
“You’re seeing some of this already,” he said.
Nissan CEO Makoto Uchida said last month that the company would reduce the time it takes to develop a new vehicle by working more closely with its partners Renault, Mitsubishi and Honda.
Volkswagen is trying to solve its software problems by investing in Rivian, which makes electric pickups and SUVs in Illinois.
Western carmakers are also making deals with Chinese automakers. Volkswagen will develop new models with Xpeng to sell in China. Last year, Stellantis bought a 20% stake in Leapmotor and has begun selling the Chinese company’s electric vehicles in Europe.
“If you can’t beat ’em,” Dudenhöffer said, “join ’em.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Tariffs; Manufacturing; Corporate profits; Automobile sales; Profitability; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Tariffs Manufacturing Corporate profits Automobile sales Profitability Automobile dealers

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Germany; China; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Center for Automotive Research; NAICS: 541380, 541715; Name: Fiat Group Automobile SpA; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: Mercedes-Benz Group AG; NAICS: 336110; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; General Motors; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Elkann, John; Foreign Workers; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Mississippi; Thailand; Hyundai Motor Co; Shortages; Great Britain; Ann Arbor (Mich); United States; Renault Sa; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp; Peugeot Sa; Budgets And Budgeting; Canada; International Trade And World Market; Elections; Customs (Tariff); Dodge Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Politics And Government; Two Thousand Twenty Three; Byd Co Ltd; Automobiles; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Ford Motor Co; Illinois; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Protectionism (Trade); Europe; Germany; Google Inc; Chery Automobile Co; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Nissan Motor Co; Presidential Election Of 2024; Chile; Layoffs And Job Reductions; United States Politics And Government; University Of San Diego; Michigan; Kelley Blue Book Co; Computers And The Internet; Toyota Motor Corp; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Shutdowns (Institutional); Mercedes Benz; International Relations; Brazil; Bochum (Germany); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Cadillac Division Of General Motors Corp; Factories And Manufacturing; Rivian Automotive Llc; Volkswagen Ag; Stocks And Bonds; Japan; Real Estate (Commercial); Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Center For Automotive Research; Saic Motor Corporation Ltd; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Mexico; Stellantis Nv; Batteries; Tavares, Car los; Trump, Donald J; Australia; Guangzhou Xiaopeng Motors Technology Co Ltd (Xpeng Motors); Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Tennessee; Fuel Emissions (Transportation); Uchida, Makoto; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; United States Economy; Waymo; Barra, Mary T; Luxury Goods And Services; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Ewing, Jack; China

Title: Automakers Thrived in the Pandemic. Many Are Now Struggling.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 14, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144409336

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/automakers-thrived-pandemic-many-are-now/docview/3144409336/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump Seen As a Threat To E.V. Sales: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lawrence, Ulrich

Publication info: Lawrence, Ulrich. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-seen-as-threat-e-v-sales/docview/3132714408/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Fewer people will be able to afford electric cars and trucks if President-elect Donald J. Trump and Republicans in Congress eliminate a $ 7,500 federal tax credit.
Many car buyers have come to rely on a $ 7,500 federal tax credit on electric vehicles to soften the blow of their high prices. But those credits could disappear after President-elect Donald J. Trump takes office, leading to an almost immediate drop in sales of the cars and trucks.
Electric car sales could fall 27 percent if consumers lose the tax break, according to estimates published last week by three economics professors, Joseph Shapiro of the University of California, Berkeley, Felix Tintelnot of Duke University and Hunt Allcott of Stanford. Registrations of electric models are on track to hit 1.2 million this year, and estimates are that there would be about 317,000 fewer registered annually without the credit.
Other countries that eliminated such subsidies have seen similar drops -- in Germany, electric vehicle sales tumbled 27 percent in the first 10 months of the year, after the government last December abruptly canceled an incentive worth $ 4,900.
"You can't make a vehicle $ 7,500 more expensive and sell more of them easily," said Chris Harto, a senior policy analyst for Consumer Reports. "People are only willing to pay so much."
The tax credits, which can be as high as $ 7,500 for new electric cars and plug-in hybrids, and up to $ 4,000 for used models, are a cornerstone of President Biden's Inflation Reduction Act, a law meant to address climate change and spur domestic manufacturing. Since January, consumers who buy or lease eligible cars have driven home with $ 2 billion in credits on 300,000 cars, according to the Treasury Department.
New-car prices are flat in 2024, but have risen nearly 30 percent since the start of the pandemic. And the gap between battery-powered cars and internal combustion models remains stubbornly wide. Consumers paid $ 56,900 on average for an electric car in October, $ 9,000 more than for the average gasoline car or hybrid, according to Kelley Blue Book, though the tax credit often significantly reduced that gap.
Mr. Trump regularly attacked Mr. Biden's policies on climate and electric cars on the campaign trail, and his transition team is exploring steps he could take to repeal or limit the credits. A complete repeal would require Congress to act. But Mr. Trump could also direct the Treasury to change tax rules in ways that limit how many cars qualify for credits.
Those efforts have the support of one of Mr. Trump's biggest supporters, Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla, which makes roughly half of the electric vehicles sold in the United States. Mr. Musk has called for the elimination of all subsides for electric vehicles. He has also said the loss of the tax break would hurt Tesla less than it would other automakers.
But even Tesla would take a hit because the company's two top-selling cars are eligible for the $ 7,500 credit. Losing the credit could further depress the company's sales, which have been tepid this year because it has few new models to compete with electric cars from other automakers.
Tesla and the Trump transition team did not respond to requests for comment.
Some state governments also offer incentives, and Democratic governors could try to offer more support if federal policy changes. Gov. Gavin Newsom of California on Monday said that he would propose restoring an electric vehicle rebate program that ended last year if the federal credits were repealed.
If the credits end, Mr. Harto said, some automakers might make up some of the difference by offering bigger discounts to sustain sales and keep their factories humming. Several automakers are already offering year-end deals, including monthly leases below $ 250 on models like the Hyundai Ioniq 5, Nissan Ariya and Kia Niro. Mr. Harto advises shoppers interested in such vehicles to buy one soon.
"If you're really considering an E.V. over the next few years, there's probably no better time than today," he said.
Albert Gore III, the executive director of the Zero Emission Transportation Association, a trade group, said ending credits would instantly raise prices for the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry. Three of four electric cars sold in the United States are built domestically, by companies including Tesla, Ford Motor, General Motors, Hyundai, Rivian and Volkswagen.
"This is going to be inflationary on the entire car market, no doubt about it," said Mr. Gore, whose father was the U.S. vice president from 1993 to 2001.
Mr. Harto said price increases could be a deal-killer for budget shoppers. Several affordable electric models -- the kind many Americans have clamored for -- have recently arrived in showrooms, with encouraging early sales. They include the Chevrolet Blazer sport utility vehicle and the mechanically related Honda Prologue, both built at a G.M. plant in Mexico. With both models eligible for a full $ 7,500 credit, the Blazer costs as little as $ 38,500 and the Prologue about $ 41,000. An electric Chevrolet Equinox costs $ 27,500 after the credit, on a par with similar gasoline vehicles.
Still, some analysts note that many electric cars are already ineligible for the tax credit.
Just 20 percent of electric car buyers claimed a tax credit in the first half of 2024, according to BloombergNEF, a research firm. Under the Inflation Reduction Act, cars are eligible for the credit only if they are assembled in North America and are powered by batteries that include materials from the United States or its trade allies. Only 13 models offer the full $ 7,500 credit through Dec. 31. Another eight are eligible for $ 3,750.
Buyers also have to earn incomes below $ 300,000 for couples and $ 150,000 for individuals.
Those restrictions do not apply if electric cars are leased. As a result, leases made up 79 percent of all electric-car transactions in dealerships in October, up from 16 percent in January, according to Edmunds. Those figures do not include brands, such as Tesla, Rivian and Lucid, that sell cars directly to consumers.
For people who are not ready to buy a new car, many formerly leased cars should enter the used market in coming years. They may make for tempting deals because battery-powered models have suffered sharp depreciation since Tesla started slashing prices last year.
Sales of electric cars have slowed in 2024, yet these cars have never been more popular: Americans bought a record 346,000 such models in the third quarter, according to Kelley Blue Book. Sales are up 9 percent in the first nine months of the year.
Supporters warn that killing the credits would blunt that momentum, with damaging effects for the environment, jobs and global competitiveness. The Environmental Defense Fund said companies had announced $ 126 billion in electric car and battery manufacturing investment since the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act in 2022, creating 108,000 jobs. By 2027, automakers will have built annual capacity for 5.8 million electric cars, enough to supply more than one in three new vehicles at current sales levels.
Opponents of credits say electric vehicles should compete with gasoline models without the help of the federal government. They note that many battery-powered cars are luxury models bought or leased by people who can afford the vehicles without tax breaks.
"I've driven them, and they are incredible," Mr. Trump said about electric vehicles at a July campaign rally in Michigan, "but they're not for everybody."
Mr. Harto said electric cars would eventually have to stand on their own. But the Inflation Reduction Act was aimed at fostering a domestic ecosystem of cars, batteries, components and minerals before it is too late to catch up to China, which dominates the industry.
"Do we want to build those cars and batteries in the U.S., or just import them from China?" Mr. Harto said. "The incentives give automakers a cushion to scale up and figure it out."
Even if Congress repeals the credits or Mr. Trump rewrites the rules, some industry executives expect a temporary jolt in sales, not a permanent decline. Jim Cain, a G.M. spokesman, said the automaker began investing in electric vehicle and battery factories years before the Inflation Reduction Act took effect, a strategy that is now paying dividends.
"The purest way to drive E.V. demand is with good-looking vehicles that hit all the buttons for consumers," Mr. Cain said, "and we think we've got those pieces."
Photograph Electric car sales could fall 27 percent if consumers lose federal tax credits, according to estimates published last week by three economics professors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Consumers; Electric vehicles; Trucks; Presidents; Prices; Automobile industry; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Tax credits; Automobile sales

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Automobile industry Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Tax credits Automobile sales

Location: United States--US; China; California

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/25/business/trump-electric-vehicle-tax-credit.html

Title: Trump Seen As a Threat To E.V. Sales:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 26, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132714408

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-seen-as-threat-e-v-sales/docview/3132714408/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

VW and Rivian Deepen Alliance With Joint Venture: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack; Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Ewing, Jack; Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vw-rivian-deepen-alliance-with-joint-venture/docview/3128039318/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The new agreement, which builds on an earlier announcement, calls for the German automaker to invest $ 5.8 billion in Rivian, a maker of electric vehicles.
Volkswagen, the German automaker, and Rivian, a California-based maker of electric pickups and S.U.V.s, said on Tuesday that they would form a joint venture to develop software and electronics, extending a partnership they announced in June.
Volkswagen said it would increase its investment with Rivian to $ 5.8 billion from $ 5 billion, which will include a 50 percent stake in the joint venture. While short of an acquisition, the new company broadens the alliance with Rivian and could foreshadow similar partnerships between other established carmakers and new companies struggling to become profitable.
"The partnership with Rivian is the next logical step in our software strategy," Oliver Blume, the chief executive of Volkswagen, said in a statement.
In June, Volkswagen and Rivian had said they would work together on vehicle software -- an area where the German carmaker has struggled. The agreement announced Tuesday goes further by creating an independent company to jointly develop technology for electric vehicles.
The ever-closer association with Volkswagen has helped allay fears that Rivian will run out of money before it becomes profitable. Rivian shares rose 6 percent in extended trading on Tuesday.
Initially the partnership will be focused on developing software for electric vehicles, but could be expanded to include battery modules or other technology, Mr. Blume said during a conference call with reporters. Volkswagen will use the technology in many types of vehicles including subcompacts and cars made by its Audi and Porsche divisions, he said.
Though the world's second-largest carmaker after Toyota, Volkswagen has struggled to make inroads in the United States. Sales of its electric cars here have lagged behind General Motors and Hyundai-Kia. Volkswagen's share of the electric car market in the United States was just 3.4 percent in the third quarter, including the company's Audi and Porsche brands, according to Kelley Blue Book.
The collaboration with Rivian is Volkswagen's second tie-up with another automaker this year aimed at strengthening its software, which has been a notoriously weak point for the German company. In February, Volkswagen announced a partnership with Chinese electric vehicle company Xpeng, aimed at helping it to develop electric cars for China, where it has been steadily losing market share.
Rivian's pickups and sport utility vehicles have received positive reviews in the automotive press, but the company is not selling enough of them to make money. Rivian said last week that it lost $ 1.1 billion in the third quarter, an improvement from the same period in 2023, when it lost $ 1.4 billion. However, deliveries during the quarter fell to 10,000 vehicles, from 15,600 a year earlier, because of a parts shortage.
Volkswagen does not sell a pickup truck in the United States, a handicap in a market where such vehicles are best sellers. But the company is building a factory in South Carolina where it plans to revive the Scout off-road brand with a line of electric S.U.V.s and pickups. Scout will also use technology developed by the VW-Rivian joint venture.
Scout began taking reservations for the vehicles last month, but they will not be available until 2027.
In Europe and China, Volkswagen is trying to cut costs as it faces weak demand for its vehicles. The company also faces high energy and labor costs in Germany, home to many of its factories. The company said last month that its profit in the third quarter fell 42 percent to 2.86 billion euros, or $ 3.1 billion, its lowest level in three years.
Volkswagen has asked its 120,000 workers in Germany to accept wage cuts of 10 percent. The company has threatened to close factories there, too. The company's main union is seeking a 7 percent wage increase and says it may resort to strikes if its demands are not met.
The new joint venture will be known as Rivian and VW Group Technology and will be led by Wassym Bensaid of Rivian and Carsten Helbing of Volkswagen. Its headquarters will be in Palo Alto, Calif.
Volkswagen's $ 5.8 billion investment consists of shares in the joint venture and debt. Of that sum, $ 3.5 billion is conditional on the joint venture achieving "clearly defined milestones," Volkswagen said.
Photograph A Rivian assembly plant in Normal, Ill., in June. The company and Volks-wagen announced a partnership to develop software and electronics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL ANGEL JUAREZ/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Software; Joint ventures; Group technology; Electric vehicles; Factories; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Joint ventures Factories Equity stake

Location: China; United States--US; Germany

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/12/business/volkswagen-rivian-electric-vehicles.html

Title: VW and Rivian Deepen Alliance With Joint Venture:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 14, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3128039318

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vw-rivian-deepen-alliance-with-joint-venture/docview/3128039318/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fancy Some Free Electricity?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Sengupta, Somini; Testa, Andrew

Publication info: Sengupta, Somini; Testa, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fancy-some-free-electricity/docview/3127176566/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A utility sends phone alerts when wind power is cheap. A builder sells "zero bill" houses. They're among several experiments to redefine how people value electricity.
Were Heathcliff to roam the blustery moors around Wuthering Heights today, he might be interrupted by a ping on his cellphone saying something like this: The wind is raging, so power is cheap. It's a good time to plug in the car.
OK. So the 18th-century literary occupants of these windswept hills received no such pings.
But Martin and Laura Bradley do. They live in Halifax, an old mill town below the wuthering, or windy, heights of West Yorkshire. And when a squall kicks up, producing a surplus of electricity from wind turbines on the moor, their phones light up with a notification, like one that informed them of a 50 percent discount one Saturday in October.
The Bradleys plugged in their electric Kia, started a load of laundry and set to work on their most delectable energy-guzzling project: the Christmas fruitcake, which is made weeks in advance of the holidays. "As this takes four hours to cook in my electric oven, this is the perfect timing!" Laura Bradley said.
The phone alerts to the Bradleys and thousands of other people are part of Britain's ambitious plan to shift the nation's electricity system away from burning fossil fuels altogether by decade's end. That would be five years faster than the United States, and a full decade ahead of the European Union, effectively making it the most ambitious target of any major industrialized economy.
That means building many more solar and wind projects, as well as loads of batteries and transmission lines. It also requires persuading millions of Britons of the benefits -- most importantly to their pocketbooks.
That's where the Wuthering Heights pings come in.
Octopus Energy, the country's biggest electricity supplier, runs nine wind turbines on those hills. When it's gusty, and power is abundant, it offers discounts. The Bradleys say they save upward of 400 pounds ( $ 517) a year. Octopus says it not only attracts customers but also persuades communities that they benefit from new energy infrastructure.
"We've got these famously bleak, windy hills," said Greg Jackson, the company's chief executive. "We wanted to demonstrate to people that wind electricity is cheaper, but only when you use it when it's windy."
It's one of several creative experiments as Britain tries to persuade a wary public that ditching fossil fuels can improve their lives.
Ripple Energy, a London startup, invites people to buy a piece of a wind turbine in exchange for discount energy bills. In the town of Grimsby, a local cooperative invests in small solar projects that reduce bills for charities nearby. In North London, a developer has teamed up with Octopus to sell homes that run entirely on electricity -- and whose occupants get free electricity for at least five years.
Britain's 2030 ambition is a test of how quickly a rich country can build a new energy system. It is all the more notable for happening in a country that birthed the Industrial Revolution, ultimately producing the climate crisis that afflicts the world today.
Hitting the target faces many challenges.
There's pressure on the government to enable developers to quickly build things like transmission lines. There's pressure from communities to not spoil the countryside. And there's pressure to overhaul regulations so that communities near the new infrastructure -- Scotland for instance, which produces most of the country's offshore wind -- can get lower electric bills and in turn attract new energy-intensive businesses.
Natural gas still accounts for a third of the electricity mix. Replacing that with renewables in five years is no small feat. One recent analysis concluded that solar and wind projects currently planned would make up less than half of the electricity mix by 2030 without an enormous infusion of capital.
An oil man turns to batteries
Signs of the transition are in plain view. Wind turbines roar like dragons off the Scottish coast. Solar panels line the rooftops of football stadiums. And on an industrial patch of West Yorkshire, where for decades, three enormous power plants burned enormous piles of coal, a former oil worker, Ricky Harker, has been installing giant batteries.
There are 136 batteries in all, each the size of a tractor-trailer and owned by SSE, an energy giant that produces a lot of wind power in the North Sea.
The batteries are designed to harness wind and solar power and store it until its needed in the grid. "It's part of the jigsaw," said Mr. Harker, the project's manager. "Something we can't do without."
Mr. Harker embodies the transition. His grandfather was a coal miner. His father worked in a coal-burning steel plant. Mr. Harker, too, apprenticed there and then worked at an oil refinery, before an explosion killed five co-workers and literally drove him out.
"I've never run so fast in my life," he said. "The next day I spoke to the police, grabbed my bags and left oil and gas."
While the government's emphasis is on accelerating renewables, it has no plans to leave behind oil and gas anytime soon. British homes are mainly heated with gas, and for the foreseeable future, gas will remain in the electricity mix as a reserve. The government has said it would allow already approved North Sea oil and gas projects to proceed, but not issue new permits.
In September, Britain closed its last coal-burning power plant. Its new Labour Party-led government has lifted restrictions on onshore wind projects, created a new entity called Great British Energy to invest 2 billion pounds in renewables and cleared the way for several stalled projects including a 2,000-acre solar farm, Mallard Pass, which local communities complained would destroy farmland.
"If you want to get control over your energy security, and if you want energy independence, the way to do it is with clean energy," Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, said in an interview.
Clean energy isn't always popular.
There is opposition to a proposed wind farm near the Bradleys' town, too. Campaigners say it would disturb vast swaths of peatland, which has tremendous value because peat essentially locks away planet-warming carbon dioxide. "It would almost counteract its own benefit," Laura Bradley said.
The new energy curator
To persuade people of the benefits, Chris Stark, the government's adviser for the 2030 climate target, has been studying magazine advertisements from the 1960s. That was the last time Britain built a new energy system, laying down transmission lines across meadows and moors that the country relies on still.
The old ads are "really clear about why we're doing it, why it's good for the country, why it's good for your kids, and that it's not going to be a huge imposition on you," he said. "It's the sort of thing that we'll need to do again."
This month the government plans to outline what will need to be built where. Mr. Stark says that projects already planned are sufficient to meet the 2030 target. The challenge, he said, is "to do something which is genuinely new, which is to get our hands dirty and, in a sense, curate that energy system."
But it will require more than building new things. It will require "a more flexible, smarter energy system," Mr. Stark said.
The 'zero bills' inventor
A big part of that is tweaking the electricity system from the inside, which is what Greg Jackson of Octopus does, using software to profit from the peaks and troughs of power. Mr. Stark calls him the Willy Wonka of the energy transition, after the quirky chocolate-factory owner in the famous children's book.
Mr. Jackson's latest invention is the "zero bills" home. Residents pay nothing for light and heat for five years. And yet, Octopus still makes money.
How? The houses usually generate more electricity than they use, storing surplus in batteries. Octopus can sell that energy to the grid when demand and prices are high. (The free electricity doesn't apply to car-charging, which takes a lot of power.)
Fraser Jackson, 71, a zero-bills homeowner in the London suburb of Walthamstow, said he didn't have a clue how it all added up, except that the math worked for him.
On his roof sit solar panels that generate most of his power. On the patio sits an electric heat pump. In his utility closet sits a battery and a computer that shows him, if he cares to know, whether he's drawing power from the grid. It helps that the house is built with thick walls and triple-paned windows.
"That was a definite draw, the free electricity," he said.
There are only a few dozen zero-bills homes so far. Octopus aims to have 100,000 by 2030 by partnering with builders. Buyers get 10 years of free electricity.
"You've now got a highly variable system of electricity -- wind, solar -- replacing the old world," said Mr. Jackson, the Octopus executive. "But we don't have a pricing system to reflect this."
He is lobbying to change that. Step one, he says: Let sellers like Octopus offer lower prices to people living near new energy sources.
Persuading Grimsby
Climate change is a hard sell in a place like Grimsby, a former fishing town where jobs are tough to come by, aside from the offshore oil and gas industry.
Which is why Vicky Dunn, a longtime environmentalist, skipped the environmental pitch and asked two local secondhand shops, a youth shelter and a hospice if they would like to bring down their electricity bills by putting solar panels on their rooftops.
They did.
Several neighbors were keen to help. They loaned Ms. Dunn's group bits of money to invest in the panels. The nonprofits saved on their energy bills, and the investors (many had put in as little as 100 pounds) earned 5 percent interest.
The intangible benefit, Ms. Dunn said, was winning over the community about the low cost of solar. "The energy transition is needed. But you have to take people with you," she said.
The Grimsby cooperative is tiny. Altogether, its panels are able to produce less than 1 megawatt of electricity.
But it is one of dozens investing in renewable projects. One in Wales runs a small hydropower project providing cheap power to homes. Another in Bristol has put solar panels on the rooftops of local businesses, including a bowling alley.
Cooperatives like these currently own nearly 400 megawatts of renewable electricity capacity, enough to power 228,000 homes, according to a national nonprofit that tracks it. They are likely to grow in the coming years, with a cash infusion expected from Great British Energy, the new entity designed to accelerate renewables.
From Ms. Dunn's vantage point, the strength of these local projects is to show what's possible. "It gives people something practical to do with the threat of climate change, instead of worrying," she said. "Or moaning."
Photograph The last coal-burning power plant in England -- at Ratcliffe-on-Soar in Nottinghamshire -- was recently shut down. A field of solar panels will eventually be built nearby. In the foreground, John Di Rito in his garden. (B1); Laura Bradley with her son, Edison, at their home in Halifax, England, which is increasingly powered by wind. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Discounts; Community; Energy; Wind power; Electricity; Fossil fuels; Clean technology; Coal

Location: North Sea; United Kingdom--UK

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/28/climate/free-electricity-britain-power-pricing-experiments.html

Title: Fancy Some Free Electricity?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 13, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3127176566

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fancy-some-free-electricity/docview/3127176566/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Free Electricity, Anyone? Britain Tries New Tricks to Green Its Grid.

Author: Sengupta, Somini

Publication info: Sengupta, Somini. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/free-electricity-anyone-britain-tries-new-tricks/docview/3127398714/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

HALIFAX, England — Were Heathcliff to roam the blustery moors around Wuthering Heights today, he might be interrupted by a ping on his cellphone saying something like this: The wind is raging, so power is cheap. It’s a good time to plug in the car.
OK. So the 18th century literary occupants of these windswept hills received no such pings.
But Martin and Laura Bradley do. They live in Halifax, an old mill town below the wuthering, or windy, heights of West Yorkshire. And when a squall kicks up, producing a surplus of electricity from wind turbines on the moor, their phones light up with a notification, like one that informed them of a 50% discount one Saturday in October.
The Bradleys plugged in their electric Kia, started a load of laundry and set to work on their most delectable energy-guzzling project: the Christmas fruitcake, which is made weeks in advance of the holidays. “As this takes four hours to cook in my electric oven, this is the perfect timing!” Laura Bradley said.
The phone alerts to the Bradleys and thousands of other people are part of Britain’s ambitious plan to shift the nation’s electricity system away from burning fossil fuels altogether by decade’s end. That would be five years faster than the United States, and a full decade ahead of the European Union, effectively making it the most ambitious target of any major industrialized economy.
That means building many more solar and wind projects, as well as loads of batteries and transmission lines. It also requires convincing millions of Britons of the benefits — most importantly to their pocketbooks.
That’s where the Wuthering Heights pings come in.
Octopus Energy, the country’s biggest electricity supplier, runs nine wind turbines on those hills. When it’s gusty, and power is abundant, it offers discounts. The Bradleys say they save upward of 400 pounds ($517) a year. Octopus says it not only attracts customers but also convinces communities that they benefit from new energy infrastructure.
“We’ve got these famously bleak, windy hills,” said Greg Jackson, the company’s CEO. “We wanted to demonstrate to people that wind electricity is cheaper, but only when you use it when it’s windy.”
It’s one of several creative experiments as Britain tries to convince a wary public that ditching fossil fuels can improve their lives.
Ripple Energy, a London startup, invites people to buy a piece of a wind turbine in exchange for discount energy bills. In the town of Grimsby, a local cooperative invests in small solar projects that reduce bills for charities nearby. In North London, a developer has teamed up with Octopus to sell homes that run entirely on electricity — and whose occupants get free electricity for at least five years.
Britain’s 2030 ambition is a test of how quickly a rich country can build a new energy system. It is all the more notable for happening in a country that birthed the Industrial Revolution, ultimately producing the climate crisis that afflicts the world today.
Hitting the target faces many challenges.
There’s pressure on the government to enable developers to quickly build things like transmission lines. There’s pressure from communities to not spoil the countryside. And there’s pressure to overhaul regulations so that communities near the new infrastructure — Scotland for instance, which produces most of the country’s offshore wind — can get lower electric bills and in turn attract new energy-intensive businesses.
Natural gas still accounts for a third of the electricity mix. Replacing that with renewables in five years is no small feat. One recent analysis concluded that solar and wind projects currently planned would make up less than half of the electricity mix by 2030 without an enormous infusion of capital.
An Oil Man Turns to Batteries
Signs of the transition are in plain view. Wind turbines roar like dragons off the Scottish coast. Solar panels line the rooftops of football stadiums. And on an industrial patch of West Yorkshire, where for decades, three enormous power plants burned enormous piles of coal, a former oil worker, Ricky Harker, has been installing giant batteries.
There are 136 batteries in all, each the size of a tractor-trailer and owned by SSE, an energy giant that produces a lot of wind power in the North Sea.
The batteries are designed to harness wind and solar power and store it until it’s needed in the grid. “It’s part of the jigsaw,” said Harker, the project’s manager. “Something we can’t do without.”
Harker embodies the transition. His grandfather was a coal miner. His father worked in a coal-burning steel plant. Harker, too, apprenticed there and then worked at an oil refinery, before an explosion killed five co-workers and literally drove him out.
“I’ve never run so fast in my life,” he said. “The next day I spoke to the police, grabbed my bags and left oil and gas.”
While the government’s emphasis is on accelerating renewables, it has no plans to leave behind oil and gas anytime soon. British homes are mainly heated with gas, and for the foreseeable future, gas will remain in the electricity mix as a reserve. The government has said it would allow already approved North Sea oil and gas projects to proceed, but not issue new permits.
In September, Britain closed its last coal-burning power plant. Its new Labour Party-led government has lifted restrictions on onshore wind projects, created a new entity called Great British Energy to invest 2 billion pounds in renewables and cleared the way for several stalled projects, including a 2,000-acre solar farm, Mallard Pass, which local communities complained would destroy farmland.
“If you want to get control over your energy security, and if you want energy independence, the way to do it is with clean energy,” Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, said in an interview.
Clean energy isn’t always popular.
There is opposition to a proposed wind farm near the Bradleys’ town, too. Campaigners say it would disturb vast swaths of peatland, which has tremendous value because peat essentially locks away planet-warming carbon dioxide. “It would almost counteract its own benefit,” Laura Bradley said.
The New Energy Curator
To convince people of the benefits, Chris Stark, the government’s adviser for the 2030 climate target, has been studying magazine advertisements from the 1960s. That was the last time Britain built a new energy system, laying down transmission lines across meadows and moors that the country relies on still.
The old ads are “really clear about why we’re doing it, why it’s good for the country, why it’s good for your kids, and that it’s not going to be a huge imposition on you,” he said. “It’s the sort of thing that we’ll need to do again.”
This month the government plans to outline what will need to be built where. Stark says that projects already planned are sufficient to meet the 2030 target. The challenge, he said, is “to do something which is genuinely new, which is to get our hands dirty and, in a sense, curate that energy system.”
But it will require more than building new things. It will require “a more flexible, smarter energy system,” Stark said.
The ‘Zero Bills’ Inventor
A big part of that is tweaking the electricity system from the inside, which is what Greg Jackson of Octopus does, using software to profit from the peaks and troughs of power. Stark calls him the Willy Wonka of the energy transition, after the quirky chocolate-factory owner in the famous children’s book.
Jackson’s latest invention is the “zero bills” home. Residents pay nothing for light and heat for five years. And yet, Octopus still makes money.
How? The houses usually generate more electricity than they use, storing surplus in batteries. Octopus can sell that energy to the grid when demand and prices are high. (The free electricity doesn’t apply to car-charging, which takes a lot of power.)
Fraser Jackson, 71, a zero-bills homeowner in the London suburb of Walthamstow, said he didn’t have a clue how it all added up, except that the math worked for him.
On his roof sit solar panels that generate most of his power. On the patio sits an electric heat pump. In his utility closet sits a battery and a computer that shows him, if he cares to know, whether he’s drawing power from the grid. It helps that the house is built with thick walls and triple-paned windows.
“That was a definite draw, the free electricity,” he said.
There are only a few dozen zero-bills homes so far. Octopus aims to have 100,000 by 2030 by partnering with builders. Buyers get 10 years of free electricity.
“You’ve now got a highly variable system of electricity — wind, solar — replacing the old world,” said Jackson, the Octopus executive. “But we don’t have pricing system to reflect this.”
He is lobbying to change that. Step one, he says: Let sellers like Octopus offer lower prices to people living near new energy sources.
Persuading Grimsby
Climate change is a hard sell in a place like Grimsby, a former fishing town where jobs are tough to come by, aside from the offshore oil and gas industry.
Which is why Vicky Dunn, a longtime environmentalist, skipped the environmental pitch and asked two local secondhand shops, a youth shelter and a hospice if they would like to bring down their electricity bills by putting solar panels on their rooftops.
They did.
Several neighbors were keen to help. They loaned Dunn’s group bits of money to invest in the panels. The nonprofits saved on their energy bills, and the investors (many had put in as little as 100 pounds) earned 5% interest.
The intangible benefit, Dunn said, was winning over the community about the low cost of solar. “The energy transition is needed. But you have to take people with you,” she said.
The Grimsby cooperative is tiny. Altogether, its panels are able to produce less than 1 megawatt of electricity.
But it is one of dozens investing in renewable projects. One in Wales runs a small hydropower project providing cheap power to homes. Another in Bristol has put solar panels on the rooftops of local businesses, including a bowling alley.
Cooperatives like these currently own nearly 400 megawatts of renewable electricity capacity, enough to power 228,000 homes, according to a national nonprofit that tracks it. They are likely to grow in the coming years, with a cash infusion expected from Great British Energy, the new entity designed to accelerate renewables.
From Dunn’s vantage point, the strength of these local projects is to show what’s possible. “It gives people something practical to do with the threat of climate change, instead of worrying,” she said. “Or moaning.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Community; Discounts; Energy; Electricity; Fossil fuels; Power plants; Clean technology; Coal

Business indexing term: Subject: Power plants

Location: England; North Sea; United Kingdom--UK

Identifier / keyword: Elections; European Union; Europe; Wales; Wind Power; Building (Construction); Octopus; Scotland; North Sea; Inventions And Patents; Electric Light And Power; Energy And Po wer; Assaults; Miliband, Edward S; Great Britain; Small Business; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Grimsby (England); Alternative And Renewable Energy; London (England); Politics And Government; Hygiene And Cleanliness; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Sengupta, Somini; Yorkshire (England); Automobiles; Nonprofit Organizations; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Labour Party (Great Britain); Sustainable Living; Outsourcing; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; England; Roofs; Global Warming; Advertising And Marketing; World; Shutdowns (Institutional); International Relations; Halifax (Nova Scotia); British Energy; Deaths (Fatalities); Sse Plc; Factories And Manufacturing; Edison, Thomas A; Offshore Drilling And Exploration; Natural Gas; Home Repairs And Improvements; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Coal; Batteries; Bristol (England); Mines And Mining; Solar Energy; Kia Motors Corp; Heating; Start Ups; Fish And Other Marine Life; Infrastructure (Public Works)

Title: Free Electricity, Anyone? Britain Tries New Tricks to Green Its Grid.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 12, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3127398714

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/free-electricity-anyone-britain-tries-new-tricks/docview/3127398714/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After a Crash, a Dash Cam Video Revealed a Likely Car Insurance Fraud Scheme: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Tumin, Remy

Publication info: Tumin, Remy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-crash-dash-cam-video-revealed-likely-car/docview/3119858075/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A driver thought she was the victim of road rage until recorded videos showed what appeared to be a staged accident.
Ashpia Natasha was heading to Long Island to run errands last Wednesday when a Honda Civic cut her off in the left lane on the Belt Parkway. She slammed on her brakes and came to a complete stop.
Seconds later, the Honda abruptly went into reverse, slamming into her Acura, and pulled forward again, a dash cam video shows. Could it have been road rage, Ms. Natasha wondered? But she hadn't passed anyone or had any issues.
The video then showed four people getting out of the silver car, holding their heads as though they had been injured and immediately taking out their phones to take pictures of Ms. Natasha's car.
"It all happened so fast," she said, thinking, "Maybe they're here to hurt me."
Now she and experts believe it was something else entirely: an attempt at insurance fraud. The incident is what the National Insurance Crime Bureau, an industry group that tracks insurance claims, called "a perfect example of an attempted insurance fraud scheme playing out in real time."
Ms. Natasha, 31, uploaded the dash cam videos to TikTok in a post that has been viewed more than 67 million times.
Ms. Natasha was not injured in the accident. Her car sustained $ 8,300 in damages, which insurance is paying for, she said. In a statement, the New York Police Department said the fraudulent collision investigation squad, part of the department's Criminal Enterprise Investigation Unit, was investigating the incident. It was not clear who the other car's occupants were or whether they had made a statement about the collision.
A 2019 law made it a felony in New York to stage a car crash for insurance purposes.
It wasn't until Ms. Natasha got home and reviewed the dash cam footage that she was able to put pieces together.
What happened?
When the occupants of the Honda got out of the car, they began "acting as if they didn't know what happened," Ms. Natasha said. They asked for her insurance information and she obliged.
When she told them her husband was coming to help her and was 15 minutes away, they told her they were in a rush, she said. As she went to check whether her car was drivable (it was), the Honda passengers got in their car and drove off.
Ms. Natasha reviewed the dash cam video later and noticed a few new details. First, immediately after the crash, the passengers placed some kind of tarp in their rearview window to block Ms. Natasha's view. She believes a passenger was swapping seats with the driver.
The video then showed four people getting out of the car -- she had seen only three.
The dash cams, which were both in the front and the back of her car, showed a second car, a red Kia, tailing her closely and putting its hazard lights on just before the crash. The red car then pulled in front of the Honda just after the crash, and the fourth person got in the Kia and drove away.
Ms. Natasha said she posted the video to TikTok to spread awareness and maybe get some advice. She's still waiting for her car to be repaired.
A 'swoop and squat' and other staged car collisions.
The National Insurance Crime Bureau describes Ms. Natasha's case as a version of a "swoop and squat," in which two cars' drivers conspire to stage an accident and make it appear as though it is your fault.
But there are other types of staged accidents, including a "left or right turn drive down," in which a set of drivers wave a driver to make a turn, block their way and crash into the side of their car; and a "curb drive down," when a driver pulls away from a curb and merges into traffic, only to be deliberately crashed into.
In a statement, the trade group said that it was hard to measure how frequently these kinds of accidents occur, but that they were "aware that complex criminal rings are engaging in this behavior."
How can you protect yourself?
Alec Slatky, the managing director of public and government affairs for AAA Northeast, said dash cams were the best way of protecting yourself against fraud.
"There's only so much you can protect yourself against a driver who is determined to ram into you," he said.
The same safety rules of the road apply to these kinds of situations, he said: Try to leave as much space as possible around you and pull into a shoulder lane if you can. But in many cases, like Ms. Natasha's, that's easier said than done.
If you don't have a dash cam, use your cellphone camera to record any damage to the cars and the number of occupants in other vehicles.
The insurance bureau also recommends avoiding tailgating, and says to immediately call the police to an accident scene. Be aware of "runners" and "cappers," who suddenly appear at an accident scene to direct you to specific doctors or lawyers. Similarly, be wary of tow trucks that you or law enforcement did not call.
Photograph Dash cam video from Ashpia Natasha's Acura showed people getting out of a car, gesturing as though they were hurt and photographing Ms. Natasha's car. This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Criminal investigations; Road rage; Insurance fraud; Traffic accidents & safety

Business indexing term: Subject: Insurance fraud

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: National Insurance Crime Bureau; NAICS: 561611

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/23/us/queens-dash-cam-crash-belt-parkway-insurance.html

Title: After a Crash, a Dash Cam Video Revealed a Likely Car Insurance Fraud Scheme:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3119858075

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-crash-dash-cam-video-revealed-likely-car/docview/3119858075/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What to Make Next Week: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Sifton, Sam

Publication info: Sifton, Sam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-make-next-week/docview/3112993065/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Kia Damon's recipe is an easy oven-baked barbecue situation that leads to tender meat and a caramelized bark that's sweet and salty.
Monday
Kay Chun's recipe for soy-braised tofu is one of the great weeknight meals, paired with rice and kimchi. The tofu sucks up the sauce, spiked with garlic and ginger, and shiitake mushrooms add heft and meatiness. Best of all, the leftovers are excellent cold -- a lunch to remind you of a wonderful dinner. SAM SIFTON Tuesday
I pair jalapeños with pan-roasted salmon in one of my favorite recipes for the fish, foamed in butter and topped with chopped fresh herbs. I serve that with roasted new potatoes and pat myself on the back every time. SAM SIFTON Wednesday
Sarah DiGregorio took inspiration from the slingers of sausage with peppers and onions outside Fenway Park in Boston for her recipe: a sausage and peppers one-pot pasta. The vegetables are browned in a pan alongside bulk sausage, with a tangle of pickled peppers added at the end. (If you don't have those, add a squeeze of lemon juice instead, or a splash of red wine vinegar.) SAM SIFTON Thursday
Is it possible that Hetty Lui McKinnon's recipe for mushroom stroganoff is better than the beef version that Craig Claiborne brought to The Times in 1963? It is, at least if you follow her lead and use a wide variety of mushrooms, including a handful of soaked dried porcinis. The umami punch of the soaking liquid adds depth to the ambrosial sauce, ideal for spooning over mashed potatoes. SAM SIFTON Friday
Here's another Hetty hack: a cabbage parm that uses the brassica in place of the more traditional eggplant or chicken. Roasted at high temperature, the cabbage gets sweet and smoky, a perfect foil for the tomato sauce and melted cheese. SAM SIFTON
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GENTL AND HYERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: HADAS SMIRNOFF. PROP STYLIST: REBECCA BARTOSHESKY.; DAVID MALOSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.; CHRISTOPHER TESTANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.; ARMANDO RAFAEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.) This article appeared in print on page C10.

Subject: Recipes

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/01/dining/sticky-guava-ribs-for-any-season.html

Title: What to Make Next Week:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 5, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3112993065

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-make-next-week/docview/3112993065/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tesla Sales Increase, a Sign Electric Car Demand Is Rebounding: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack; Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Ewing, Jack; Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-sales-increase-sign-electric-car-demand-is/docview/3112345115/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The automaker reported a gain of 6.4 percent for the latest quarter, its first such increase this year.
Tesla said Wednesday that its global sales of cars and trucks rose 6.4 percent in the third quarter, the first quarterly increase the company has reported this year and a sign that demand for electric cars may be recovering as interest rates fall.
The automaker delivered 463,000 vehicles from July through September, up from 435,000 a year earlier, offering hope to investors that the company's sales have stabilized after falling in the first half of the year.
The sales data were just below the expectations of Wall Street analysts, and Tesla's share price fell 3.5 percent on Wednesday.
Tesla boosted sales in part by offering 2.5 percent financing to qualified buyers in the United States, well below the market interest rate. It will be easier for the company, which is led by Elon Musk, to offer cheaper financing after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by half a percentage point in September, the first of what is expected to be a series of cuts. Central banks in Europe, China and elsewhere have also been lowering rates.
Interest rates determine the size of monthly car payments and are often more important to buyers than sticker prices. That's why many analysts think car sales in the United States in particular could rise as the Fed cuts rates more.
"There is a contingent of folks who are going to say, 'Now is not the right time to commit $ 50,000 to a new vehicle,"' said Charles Chesbrough, a senior economist at Cox Automotive, a research firm. "They may just decide to wait a few months until after the election, until after the Middle East calms down, until they see if the Fed cuts rates further."
Tesla's share of electric car sales has fallen as rivals like General Motors, Hyundai, Ford Motor and BMW have offered more battery-powered models. But Tesla still accounts for almost half of electric car sales in the United States and sets the tone for the market here and in other countries.
Sales of electric cars, while still growing, have fallen short of expectations and prompted G.M., Ford, Volvo and others to scale back or slow down investment in electric vehicle production. A rebound in Tesla's sales could signal faster growth of electric models, a pillar of efforts by the Biden administration to fight climate change.
On Tuesday, G.M. said sales of its electric models in the United States in the third quarter jumped 60 percent from a year earlier, to more than 32,000. The company's U.S. sales of all vehicles fell about 2 percent in the quarter.
On Wednesday Ford reported a 12 percent increase in U.S. electric vehicle sales in the third quarter, to about 23,500, and a 0.7 percent gain in overall car and truck sales.
Tesla still faces significant challenges and questions about its strategy. The company's sales have recovered in China, the largest car market in the world. But the Chinese auto market is very competitive, and many automakers are losing money or earning meager profits there.
In Europe, electric vehicle sales are slumping after Germany slashed subsidies for buyers. Tesla remains reliant on just two cars -- the Model Y sport utility vehicle and the Model 3 sedan -- for most of its sales, while rivals like G.M. and Hyundai-Kia offer more choices, newer designs and often lower prices.
G.M.'s best-selling battery-powered model is a new electric version of the Chevrolet Equinox S.U.V. G.M. sold more than 9,700 in the third quarter, and this week started selling an entry-level model of that car that starts at $ 35,000 before federal and state breaks. The cheapest Tesla Model Y sells for about $ 45,000 before tax incentives.
In addition to selling cars that are more expensive, Tesla appears to be struggling because Mr. Musk has alienated many potential buyers with his provocative statements on X, the social media site he owns, and his vocal support of former President Donald J. Trump and conservative causes. Centrist and left-leaning consumers are much more likely than conservatives to buy electric cars.
Mr. Musk has staked the future of Tesla on autonomous driving, while saying little about plans for new models. On Oct. 10, the company plans to unveil a self-driving taxi, but analysts are skeptical that Tesla is as close as Mr. Musk says to developing a vehicle that can navigate without human intervention.
There is speculation that Tesla will also unveil a cheaper passenger car on the same day, expanding the number of people who can afford a Tesla. The company has said it is working on a such a product, but has not confirmed that it will show the vehicle this month or when it might go on sale.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Federal Reserve monetary policy; Interest rates; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal Reserve monetary policy Interest rates Automobile sales

Location: China; United States--US; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/02/business/tesla-electric-vehicle-sales.html

Title: Tesla Sales Increase, a Sign Electric Car Demand Is Rebounding:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 3, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3112345115

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-sales-increase-sign-electric-car-demand-is/docview/3112345115/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Stellantis, The Troubles Are Piling Up: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-stellantis-troubles-are-piling-up/docview/3111035324/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The automaker, created by a 2021 merger, is dealing with labor unrest, slumping sales and a revolt from its dealers.
Stellantis, an automotive colossus that owns more than a dozen brands including Chrysler, Fiat, Jeep, Peugeot and Ram, is facing challenges at seemingly every turn.
The company's sales and profit have been plummeting. Dealers stuck with parking lots filled with unsold cars are publicly criticizing Stellantis and its chief executive in unusually harsh terms. Stellantis's stock price has fallen almost 50 percent from its high point in March. And the union that represents its U.S. factory workers is threatening to go on strike at several plants.
United Automobile Workers locals are expected to vote in the coming days to authorize strikes against several Stellantis factories, protesting what they say are broken promises by the automaker.
The problems are raising questions about the future of Carlos Tavares, the Stellantis chief executive, who races cars in his spare time. After taking the reins at the French carmaker PSA in 2014, he acquired a series of rivals to build a company that last year sold more cars than General Motors did.
Last week, Stellantis said it was evaluating who should lead the company when Mr. Tavares's contract expires in early 2026. Mr. Tavares could remain chief executive, Stellantis said, but the statement was hardly a vote of confidence.
In 2021, PSA merged with Fiat Chrysler, and the combined company adopted the name Stellantis. While the company is based in Amsterdam, its U.S. operations accounted for more than half of Stellantis's profit in the first six months of 2024, meaning that problems here reverberate across the Atlantic. And the problems are deep, analyst say.
"I wouldn't want to be Carlos Tavares," said Erin Keating, the senior director of economic and industry insights at Cox Automotive, a market research firm.
Jeep and other Stellantis brands raised prices more than other automakers did in recent years, Ms. Keating said, and waited longer to offer discounts when demand slowed. High interest rates made those prices even more unpalatable to car buyers. As a result, many people who are ready to trade in Jeep Wagoneers or Dodge Chargers that they bought three or four years ago can't afford the latest models.
Dodge dealers have, on average, 149 days of supply on lots, including many 2023 models, according to Cox. That is almost twice the industry average. Market share of Stellantis brands in the United States had fallen to 8.6 percent as of the end of June from 10.4 percent a year earlier, Cox said.
Dealers are furious. Kevin Farrish, the chairman of the Stellantis National Dealer Council, which represents the company's independent car dealers, blamed decisions that favored short-term profits and helped Mr. Tavares qualify for a 50 percent pay raise last year, earning nearly $ 40 million.
"The reckless short-term decision-making to secure record profits in 2023 has had devastating, yet entirely predictable, consequences in the U.S. market," Mr. Farrish and other members of the council wrote in a letter to Mr. Tavares this month. "Those consequences include the rapid degradation of our iconic American brands."
"You created this problem," the dealers wrote in an unusually direct rebuke.
Stellantis declined to make Mr. Tavares available for an interview. In a statement, the company said his compensation was in line with other automotive chief executives', taking into account corporate profits.
The president of the U.A.W., Shawn Fain, has been just as strident in his criticism of Mr. Tavares, accusing him of backpedaling on promises to revive operations at a shuttered factory in Belvidere, Ill., and of planning to move production of the Dodge Durango, a large sport utility vehicle, from Detroit to Canada.
"Either we allow an out-of-control C.E.O. and his billionaire backers who have enjoyed years of record profits to close plant after plant and continue destroying our country," Mr. Fain told union members last week, "or we stand up."
The confrontation between Stellantis and the U.A.W. comes a year after strikes helped workers win record pay raises. As part of the contract that ended those strikes, workers won the right to walk out if the company didn't meet its commitments -- a right that the union is now threatening to invoke.
The company denied that it was violating any commitments to the U.A.W., and said it had not confirmed plans to move Durango production.
"Stellantis has abided, and will continue to abide, by the agreement the parties reached in 2023," Carlos Zarlenga, the chief operating officer of Stellantis North America, said in an email to Mr. Fain on Monday.
The problems at Stellantis raise doubts about the series of acquisitions during the last decade that made it the fourth-largest carmaker after Toyota, Volkswagen and Hyundai-Kia. (Stellantis is fifth if the alliance of Renault, Nissan and Mitsubishi is considered one company.)
The deal-making led by Mr. Tavares was supposed to allow the company's car brands to share the costs of developing new technology and save money by using common components. The rationale was that bigger carmakers had a better chance of surviving the upheaval caused by the industry's shift to electric vehicles and autonomous driving.
Those benefits have not materialized as much as the company hoped, analysts said. The company disagreed, saying in a statement that combining the automakers had saved $ 8 billion since 2019.
Stellantis offers a wide selection of midsize and small cars in Europe. In the United States, however, Jeep's model lineup is heavy on higher-priced, large sport utility vehicles after it discontinued the smaller Cherokee and Renegade models last year. That change came just as cost-conscious buyers began showing a preference for smaller S.U.V.s like the Toyota RAV4, Chevrolet Trax and Honda CR-V.
And Stellantis has been unable to arrest the decline of Chrysler, which began decades ago and was once a formidable rival to Chevrolet and Ford Motor. Chrysler's lineup has dwindled to one vehicle -- the Pacifica minivan, which is available as a plug-in hybrid or with a conventional gasoline engine. (Chrysler is still selling off remaining inventory of the 300 sedan, which it stopped producing last year.)
Stellantis said it was taking steps to regain market share, including cutting the starting price of its least expensive model, the Jeep Compass, to below $ 30,000. The company said this week that it would revive the Chrysler Voyager minivan with a starting price of $ 40,000, slightly less than the least expensive Pacifica. The new Voyager will go on sale at the end of this year.
Bigger discounts for models like the Ram 1500 Classic pickup helped Stellantis sales in the United States and Canada surge 20 percent in August, the company said.
Still, with so many unsold vehicles, Stellantis faces pressure to throttle production and cut jobs, "which is obviously upsetting to the U.A.W.," said Kevin Roberts, director of industry analytics and insights at CarGurus, a car shopping website.
Dealers complain that the company does not have a clear strategy.
"Our businesses are suffering. Our employees are suffering," said Sean Hogan, the vice president of Sierra Auto Group, which owns Stellantis dealerships in Los Angeles. "We're not seeing a plan to bring us back to a volume we once had."
Mr. Hogan, also the secretary of the company's dealer council, said he met with top Stellantis executives on Monday but was not satisfied by what he heard. The automaker is still not offering incentives that are generous enough to increase sales and allow dealers to make a decent profit, he said in an email.
Mr. Fain, the U.A.W. president, told members that at least one union local would hold a strike authorization vote soon. Under the terms of the contract with Stellantis, the union would be obligated to meet at least seven times with management to try to resolve its grievances. A strike would happen only if the talks were unsuccessful.
In the short term, factory shutdowns by striking workers may be a blessing in disguise for Stellantis, buying time to clear dealer lots of unsold vehicles. But the company would also risk damaging its brands by alienating car buyers who are sympathetic to union demands.
"Labor unrest is never good," Ms. Keating of Cox Automotive said.
Photograph "We're not seeing a plan to bring us back to a volume we once had," said Sean Hogan, vice president of Sierra Auto Group in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAG CHRISTOF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Councils; Strikes; Executives; Presidents; Corporate profits; Automobile sales; Market shares; Vehicles; Factories; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Executives Corporate profits Automobile sales Market shares Factories Automobile dealers

Location: United States--US; Canada; Los Angeles California

People: Tavares, Carlos

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Fiat Group Automobile SpA; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/29/business/stellantis-jeep-dodge-strike.html

Title: At Stellantis, The Troubles Are Piling Up:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 30, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3111035324

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-stellantis-troubles-are-piling-up/docview/3111035324/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kendrick Lamar to Headline 2025 Super Bowl Halftime Show: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Morgan, Emmanuel

Publication info: Morgan, Emmanuel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kendrick-lamar-headline-2025-super-bowl-halftime/docview/3102250277/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The rapper, who's had a big year thanks to a beef with Drake that led to the smash song "Not Like Us," will perform in New Orleans in February.
Kendrick Lamar will perform at the Super Bowl halftime show next February in New Orleans, the National Football League, Roc Nation and Apple Music announced on Sunday. It is the second time that the rapper, from Compton, Calif., will take part in the event, but will be his first as the headline act.
The booking comes amid a busy year for the rapper. Earlier this spring, Lamar and Drake traded bars in a high-profile beef, which resulted in Lamar's hit song "Not Like Us."
"Rap music is still the most impactful genre to date," Lamar said in a statement. "And I'll be there to remind the world why. They got the right one."
The league announced Lamar as the performer after the rapper posted a short video on social media set on a football field with a giant American flag as a backdrop during the opening Sunday of its season, when the majority of its teams will play their games.
Lamar last performed on the Super Bowl stage in 2022, as part of the event's first showcase for hip-hop music, led by the West Coast superstars Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg, as well as Eminem, 50 Cent and Mary J. Blige.
"Kendrick Lamar is truly a once-in-a-generation artist and performer," Jay-Z, the founder of Roc Nation, said in a statement. "His deep love for hip-hop and culture informs his artistic vision. He has an unparalleled ability to define and influence culture globally. Kendrick's work transcends music, and his impact will be felt for years to come."
Lamar, a 17-time Grammy-winning artist, catapulted to fame after the release of his second album, "Good Kid, M.A.A.D City," in 2012. Widely recognized as a talented lyricist, he won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for his album "DAMN." and was nominated for an Oscar in 2019 for "All the Stars," his song with SZA from the "Black Panther" soundtrack.
He made headlines this year thanks to his highly publicized feud with Drake, which began with his feature on Future and Metro Boomin's song "Like That" in March. Drake soon responded, leading to a back-and-forth of songs laced with personal attacks and sharp accusations. "Not Like Us," which was released in May, became his fourth No. 1 single and has remained on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for 17 weeks.
Lamar took a victory lap at a Juneteenth concert at the Kia Forum in Inglewood, Calif., where he played "Not Like Us" multiple times. The event, broadcast on Amazon Prime Video, was viewed as a uniting moment for Los Angeles, featuring local heroes including Dr. Dre.
Lamar's Super Bowl appearance will be the sixth halftime produced in collaboration with Roc Nation. In 2019, Jay-Z's company signed a deal with the N.F.L. that made him a co-producer of the Super Bowl halftime show and a promoter of the league's social justice initiatives. The agreement came amid tensions over the league's handling of protests by the quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who had begun kneeling during the national anthem during the 2016 season to protest police violence against people of color.
In 2020, Jay-Z told The New York Times that he had been approached to play halftime with contingencies -- that Rihanna and Kanye West should perform "Run This Town" with him -- and turned the offer down. "The problem with the N.F.L. is you all think hip-hop is still a fad when hip-hop has been the dominant music form around the world for 20 years," Jay-Z said he told Robert K. Kraft, the New England Patriots owner and chairman of the N.F.L.'s media committee, who had reached out to him.
The first halftime show of the Roc Nation era was co-headlined by Jennifer Lopez and Shakira; in 2021, the Weeknd took the stage solo. Following the historic (and belated) full arrival of hip-hop on the Super Bowl stage, Rihanna performed in 2023, and last year Usher anchored the show with a slate of guests including Alicia Keys, Lil Jon and Ludacris.
Photograph Kendrick Lamar said of his Super Bowl performance: "Rap music is still the most impactful genre to date. And I'll be there to remind the world why." (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIKO HUESCA/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Professional football; Rap music; Hip hop music; Hip hop culture

People: Lamar, Kendrick; Jay-Z (rapper)

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/08/arts/music/kendrick-lamar-super-bowl-halftime-show.html

Title: Kendrick Lamar to Headline 2025 Super Bowl Halftime Show:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 10, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3102250277

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kendrick-lamar-headline-2025-super-bowl-halftime/docview/3102250277/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2024

Last updated: 2025-09-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For TikTok's Korean Cheerleaders, It's Blasé for the Win: [Style Desk]

Author: Sherman, Rachel

Publication info: Sherman, Rachel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktoks-korean-cheerleaders-blasé-win/docview/3099220391/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Videos of baseball cheerleaders performing an ultra-chill dance routine have taken over social media algorithms, intriguing millions of viewers.
It starts with bouncy drum beats, quickly interrupted by the sounds of sneakers squeaking on a gym floor. Then a thumbs up comes into frame, swiveling up and down like a hammer.
The strangely enthralling routine, often referred to as the "Pikki Pikki" dance, is performed by cheerleaders for the Kia Tigers, a Korean baseball team, and it has become a sensation on TikTok, racking up millions of views across numerous accounts. The moves are simple, repetitive and unassuming; the song, addictively catchy (beware). It's become a perfect recipe for flooding the algorithms.
While the Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders have turned "Thunderstruck," a maximalist routine, into a symbol of football and cheerleading in the United States, the Tigers' cheerleaders are more subdued, gently throwing their elbows and mostly dancing in place. They even look a little ... bored?
The lax approach is intentional, according to Lee Si-Young, founder and president of Apex Communications, which represents the cheer squad. The dance is performed whenever a Tigers pitcher strikes out an opposing batter as a cheeky way for the cheerleaders to applaud their team while gently poking fun at the other guys.
"We emphasize setting moves and outward expressions to match the tone and mood of the music while making it easy for the fans to follow," Mr. Lee said in an email through a translator. "We felt that it would fit more to have a more casual feel rather than something energetic or powerful."
The moves -- dancing with two thumbs up -- are decidedly uncomplicated. But performed deadpan by cheerleaders, in front of 16,000 fans, 10 to 15 times per game, the dance has an unexpected charm.
It's that low-key spirit that has attracted fans around the world and spurred confusion online. The dance has been performed since 2022 -- so why the sudden influx? The surge of interest has come as the Korea Baseball Organization has seen record-breaking crowds, credited in part to a spike in ticket sales to young female fans. The rapid growth and changing demographics have meant more eyes are on the cheerleaders (and, of course, on the players, too).
"K.B.O. is more recognized outside of Korea than it's ever been," said Dan Kurtz, who runs MyKBO, a fan site dedicated to covering Korean baseball in English. "The Kia Tigers are like the New York Yankees of the K.B.O."
Tickets cost the equivalent of $ 5 to $ 10 during the regular season, Mr. Kurtz said, and fans can bring in their own food and drinks, making a baseball game an affordable outing for younger spectators. It's also common, he said, for the cheerleaders to have specific songs and dances for individual players and to lead the crowd through the motions.
"It's like a rock concert compared to Major League Baseball games," he said. "At a Korean baseball game, it doesn't matter the score, the fans are up singing, cheering."
The catchy tune in the routine -- "Lecon Studios" by Olive Beat, sampled from "My Lecon" by the Korean boy band JTL -- is called the "strikeout song" by the cheering staff, Mr. Lee said. But because of the squeaky sound effects, fans began calling it the "Pikki Pikki," an onomatopoeia for the sound of something creaking.
The dance has spawned numerous imitators, who, smitten by the cutesy number and its accompanying ear worm, mimic the cheerleaders' blank stares and hip swivels.
Among the imitators is Melissa Minh, a model and influencer in Britain, who poked fun at the lack of enthusiasm, but captioned the post "They are so pretty though."
"The trend is a bit hard to explain in terms of why it's trending," said Deborah Park, 32, a content creator from Oklahoma City who has also made videos of the dance. She said her friends were slow to understand the appeal. "But once it clicks, they find it intriguing as well."
"This is basically the first time that a K.B.O. cheerleading routine has reached worldwide viral/TikTok challenge status," Mr. Lee said. "So the squad is feeling a lot of pride"
If there's one breakout star, it's Lee Ju-Eun, who shares the same name as a K-pop star, causing a few mix-ups in TikTok tags, and whose bouncy hair and barrettes are featured in several of the most-viewed videos.
"She is somewhat dazed by all this happening," Mr. Lee said of the cheerleader's sudden fame. "But at the same time, she is taking it as a fun, unique and positive experience overall."
In several videos, Ms. Lee refreshes her makeup or puts down an electric fan before getting up to dance, prompting curious viewers online to wonder if the distracted look is intentional.
In actuality, the "Pikki Pikki" dance happens only when the Tigers are on the field, and the cheerleaders are resting between strikeouts.
Before the song begins, the cheerleaders powder their faces and cool themselves in front of fans. They're preoccupied, they couldn't be bothered -- until the squeaks start up and it's time to dance. Then they stand with a nonchalance that brushes aside any great sense of urgency. Finally, they start to smirk.
Photograph The Kia Tigers are a top team in the Korea Baseball Organization, but it is the team's cheerleaders who have found a worldwide social media audience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIA TIGERS) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Professional football; Algorithms; Dance; Cheerleaders; Social networks; Professional baseball

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Korea Baseball Organization; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/27/style/korean-cheerleaders-tiktok.html

Title: For TikTok's Korean Cheerleaders, It's Blasé for the Win:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 1, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099220391

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktoks-korean-cheerleaders-blasé-win/docview/3099220391/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Electric Mercedes-Benz Blaze Jolts South Korea's E.V. Transition: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Jin Yu Young

Publication info: Jin Yu Young. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-mercedes-benz-blaze-jolts-south-koreas-e/docview/3098976700/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The government is aggressively promoting electric cars. But a dramatic blaze in an underground lot has left some potential buyers worried about safety.
The flames and smoke from a burning Mercedes-Benz electric sedan spread rapidly through the underground parking lot of an apartment complex in South Korea this month. The fire damaged almost 900 cars, and 23 people suffered smoke inhalation.
It took firefighters more than eight hours to put out the blaze, which reached temperatures above 1,500 degrees Celsius, according to officials in Incheon, the city near Seoul where the fire broke out around dawn on Aug. 1.
Fires are much less common in electric vehicles than in gasoline-powered ones, and the cause of the Incheon blaze has not been disclosed. But across South Korea, one of the world's biggest car producers, it caught the public's attention because of its scale and intensity, and it raised safety fears that some say could impede the government's aggressive push toward electric vehicles.
One popular secondhand car sales platform, K Car, said that listings by E.V. owners hoping to sell their vehicles had nearly tripled since the fire.
"I know that E.V.s might be the more environmentally friendly choice, but I'm still afraid of it catching fire," said Lee Min, an office worker in Seoul who is hoping to buy her first car. "I got even more scared after seeing the Incheon incident."
News coverage of the fire, and social media's reaction to it, have focused on perceived risks from battery charging, and car makers and government officials have tried to assuage those fears. The municipal government in Seoul said that by the end of next month, it would prevent E.V.s from being fully charged in parking lots beneath residential buildings, limiting them to 90-percent capacity to prevent the risk of overcharging, though some experts have questioned whether that would do much to improve safety.
Some automakers, including Mercedes-Benz Korea, have offered owners free safety checks on their E.V.s and identified their battery suppliers. The German automaker said a Chinese company, Farasis Energy, had supplied the battery in the sedan that caught fire. Farasis did not respond to a request for comment.
"The popularity of E.V.s is going to decrease for the next while," said Lee Ho-Guen, a professor of automotive engineering at Daeduk University in the city of Daejeon. "People are scared."
Before the fire, South Korea's E.V. market had been growing at a clip, accounting for 9.3 percent of new cars in the country last year, according to official data.
The national government has rolled out subsidies for buyers as well as tax breaks for E.V. makers, part of an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by around 40 percent by 2030, compared to 2018 levels. It hopes to end sales of gasoline-powered cars by 2035. The government has spent 371.5 billion Korean won, or about $ 280 million, to install charging facilities.
There have been almost 200 electric vehicle fires across the nation over the past six and a half years, according to government figures. That does not include a fire at a lithium battery factory near the capital that killed 23 workers in June, one of the country's worst industrial disasters in recent years.
Lithium, which is used in most E.V. batteries, can store large amounts of energy in a small space, but it burns intensely when on fire. There are no government-approved extinguishers designed for lithium battery fires, according to South Korea's national fire department.
Electric vehicles catch fire less frequently than other types of vehicles. For every 100,000 E.V.s, there are just 25 fires, compared to 1,530 for gasoline-powered vehicles, according to the United States' National Transportation and Safety Board. Battery fires, however, can be much larger and more damaging, Mr. Lee, the engineering professor, said.
Despite the statistics, fires have raised concern about E.V.s' safety in many countries, including the United States. The Incheon blaze resonated in South Korea because many people live in apartment blocks and share underground parking lots.
Security video footage released by news outlets shows smoke coming out of the Mercedes EQE 350 before it burst into flames. The vehicle, which was on a floor with a capacity for about 2,000 cars, was not plugged in at the time, according to the local fire department.
Hundreds of residents have been temporarily moved out of the building while repair work takes place.
Days after the fire, Mathias Vaitl, the president of Mercedes-Benz Korea, said the company would pay 4.5 billion won, or around $ 3.4 million, to affected residents. Mercedes-Benz said in a statement it was deeply sorry to all impacted by the fire, but did not comment on the cause.
The German automaker released a list of its battery suppliers in the wake of the fire, and other companies followed suit, including Hyundai and Kia. Over the weekend, the government said it would require all automakers to disclose their battery suppliers by early next year.
The government discussed comprehensive measures to alleviate public concern and ensure that such a mass fire doesn't happen again, a spokeswoman said at a televised briefing on Sunday.
Mr. Lee, the engineering professor, said the government needed to upgrade charging infrastructure and fire-response systems. He said that a 90-percent cap on battery charges, on its own, was unlikely to prevent all fires.
"It's like asking a smoker to smoke two cigarettes instead of three," he said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Fires; Automobile industry; Gasoline; Lithium; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry

Location: United States--US; South Korea

Company / organization: Name: Mercedes-Benz Group AG; NAICS: 336110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/27/world/asia/south-kor ea-electric-vehicle-fire.html

Title: Electric Mercedes-Benz Blaze Jolts South Korea's E.V. Transition:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 31, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3098976700

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-mercedes-benz-blaze-jolts-south-koreas-e/docview/3098976700/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Sunset, Something's in the Air: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-sunset-somethings-air/docview/3090779905/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Looking for something to do in New York? Catch Orrin Evans and the Captain Black Big Band in Central Park, or enjoy dancers from around the world performing in front of a Manhattan sunset.
Comedy
'Kill Tony'
Aug. 9-10 at 7 p.m. at Madison Square Garden, 4 Penn Plaza, Manhattan; msg.com.
Imagine an open mic roast in the spirit of "The Gong Show" that cultivates new voices in comedy. That's the premise behind "Kill Tony," the brainchild of the stand-up comedian Tony Hinchcliffe, who was opening for Joe Rogan and writing for Comedy Central's roasts when he started this weekly showcase a decade ago.
Both Hinchcliffe and "Kill Tony" have achieved breakthroughs this year. The comedian stood out during his turn at "The Roast of Tom Brady" on Netflix in May, earning applause breaks for his zingers. He joked that the comedian Bert Kreischer "looks like if the Tiger King and the Liver King only ate Burger King and had a liver that looked like if Martin Luther King got beat up by Rodney King."
On YouTube "Kill Tony" draws millions of views each week for episodes in which a panel of comedians and celebrities join Hinchcliffe to judge mostly amateur stand-ups whose names are pulled from a bucket to perform one-minute sets. "Kill Tony" packed the Kia Forum near Los Angeles during the Netflix Is a Joke Festival a few months ago, and it is quickly filling up Madison Square Garden for two nights this weekend.
Tickets start at nearly $ 50 on Ticketmaster. SEAN L. McCARTHY
Music
Wet
Aug. 9 at 7 p.m. at the Rockaway Hotel, 108-10 Rockaway Beach Drive, Queens; therockawayhotel.com.
Kelly Zutrau's wispy, plaintive melodies have always been a calling card for her band Wet, which sprouted from college friendships and began to bloom in Brooklyn around 2013. Coming up in the wake of the xx and James Blake, the group dabbed spacious folktronica and silky R&B textures around Zutrau's signature vocals, producing washes of moody, plain-spoken pop.
Since its mid-2010s heyday, Wet has been boosted by other artists who turn to the band as a reliable source of emotional texture. The British producer Fred again.. spun an early Wet song, the twangy "Take Hold of Me," into dance-floor catharsis on "Kelly (End of a Nightmare)" from 2022; and last year, Wet made its debut on the Billboard Hot 100 when Rod Wave sampled its song "Where Did the Day Go" on the title track of his album "Nostalgia."
On Friday, Wet will splash down for a performance in the Rockaways as part of the Rockaway Hotel's summer music series. Tickets are around $ 40 on dice.fm. OLIVIA HORN
Great Jazz on the Great Hill
Aug. 10 at 3:30 p.m. at the Great Hill in Central Park, Manhattan; centralpark.com.
Topping the bill at this annual event, presented by Jazzmobile and the Central Park Conservancy, is the Captain Black Big Band, who will be joined by the vocalist and WBGO host Lezlie Harrison. It wouldn't be the first time since its formation in 2009 that this raucous, soulful group has adjusted its size to suit the occasion.
Led by the pianist Orrin Evans and exemplifying the qualities that keep jazz forever young -- spirit, invention and exploration -- the Grammy-nominated ensemble also has a penchant for varying its material. Compare its raggedly delirious take on Thelonious Monk's "Off Minor" from the 2020 album "The Intangible Between (Smoke Sessions)" to the intimate, sunny beauty of its handling of Stevie Wonder's "Overjoyed" on its coming release "Walk a Mile in My Shoe," available Aug. 16 on Evans's label, Imani Records.
Admission to this concert, which also includes performances by the pianist Matthew Whitaker and the Christian Sands Quartet, is free. The show is near the park entrance at Central Park West and 106th Street. ALAN SCHERSTUHL
Kids
Urban Naturalist Tour: Abandoned Islands of the East River at Sunset
Through Aug. 26 at Pier 62, 22nd Street and the West Side Highway, Manhattan; sail-nyc.com.
Not all the islands in New York Harbor are as densely populated as Manhattan. But even those that are technically uninhabited have their own intriguing residents.
Classic Harbor Line offers opportunities to observe some of these wild neighbors during its narrated Urban Naturalist Tour. On Sundays and Mondays at sunset (check the website for specific times), this three-hour cruise on a 1920s-style yacht sails past points like U Thant Island, Mill Rock and the North and South Brother Islands, where species including ospreys, double-crested cormorants, snowy egrets and various kinds of herons now nest.
Binoculars are a must, but if you're lucky, you may see one of these majestic birds swoop just overhead or take off from a channel marker. The naturalist hosting each journey -- either Gabriel Willow or Russell Jacobs -- provides interesting details, like how to distinguish fish crows from American crows by their distinctive caws.
Recommended for children 10 and older, the tour also presents harbor history, with lore on subjects including shipwrecks, Typhoid Mary and the Statue of Liberty, of which young sailors get a close-up view.
Tickets, which include a sandwich and a beverage (other food is for sale), start at $ 86. LAUREL GRAEBER
Dance
Battery Dance Festival
Aug. 11-17 at 7 p.m. at Rockefeller Park, Manhattan; batterydance.org.
Since 1982, the Battery Dance Festival has convened an impressive collection of international and domestic artists in Lower Manhattan for a week of dance staged against the setting summer sun. The mixed-bill programs each feature a lineup of short dances, some under a thematic umbrella.
On Sunday, the host company, Battery Dance, will perform a world premiere by the Dutch-Turkish choreographer Rutkay Ozpinar alongside contributions from Focus Dance Company of Taiwan, wee dance company of Germany and A'no:wara Dance Theater of Canada, which is presenting two works that foreground Indigenous traditions.
Monday night's program, Young Voices in Dance, highlights choreographers between the ages of 15 and 22, and the performance on Aug. 15 celebrates India Independence Day and features the Odissi dancer Radhika Jha and Rajesh Sai Babu and his company of dancers in rare U.S. appearances. In between, companies from Finland, the Netherlands and South Korea will perform with a handful of American troupes hailing from across the country.
Admission is free. BRIAN SCHAEFER
Photograph Members of the Battery Dance company performing "A Certain Mood," choreographed by Tsai Hsi Hung. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN PISANO); A black-crowned night heron over an island in the East River. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PREETI DESAI); Orrin Evans of the Captain Black Big Band. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB DAVIDSON) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Islands; Comedians; Bands; Parks & recreation areas; Dance festivals; Musical performances; Predation; Dancers & choreographers

Company / organization: Name: Madison Square Garden Co; NAICS: 711310; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/07/arts/things-to-do-in-new-york-city-this-weekend.html

Title: At Sunset, Something's in the Air:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 9, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3090779905

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-sunset-somethings-air/docview/3090779905/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Electric Cars Help the Climate. But Are They Good Value?: [Science Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-cars-help-climate-are-they-good-value/docview/3089066036/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Electric vehicles cost more to buy than gasoline cars, and they may lose value more quickly. Even for people eager to own a car with no tailpipe emissions, it's reasonable to wonder whether it makes sense to buy one now.
The answer may well be yes, but there are a lot of factors to consider, many of which depend on your driving habits and how important it is to you to reduce your impact on the environment. And because electric vehicles are a new technology, there is less certainty than for gasoline-powered vehicles about how the numbers will shake out over time.
Here's what we know.
Is battery longevity a problem?
Most electric cars haven't been on the road that long, so it's hard to say definitively how long batteries will remain usable. Lithium-ion batteries, the kind used in virtually all electric vehicles, do lose range over time.
But the degradation is very slow. Electric cars from Tesla and other automakers have software that does a good job of protecting batteries from excess heat or voltage that can cause damage, especially when charging.
Automakers usually guarantee electric vehicle batteries for eight years or 100,000 miles, and most will replace a battery if it loses more than 30 percent of its capacity during the warranty period.
One thing to note: Batteries will still work in freezing weather and extreme heat, but their range could be temporarily reduced.
Anecdotally, there are plenty of examples of people driving electric cars hundreds of thousands of miles. The chances that a battery will degrade to the point where it needs to be replaced are less than 1 percent for electric vehicles built in 2016 or later, according to data from Recurrent, a firm that tracks the used electric vehicle market.
"All indications are that batteries should last longer than the cars themselves," said Liz Najman, director of market insights at Recurrent. "Certainly they should last for the average life of a gas-powered car."
And because electric vehicle batteries contain valuable metals like lithium and cobalt that can be recycled, even a completely spent battery will still be worth something.
What about resale value?
Prices for used electric vehicles have fluctuated wildly. In 2022, when electric cars were popular and hard to find, some models were selling for more on the used market than they had when new. Now that there are more than 100 electric vehicle models available, resale values for some models have plunged.
On average, electric vehicles depreciated by 49 percent over five years, compared to 39 percent for all vehicles, according to iSeeCars.com, an online auto sales site. But a number of one-off factors contributed to the drop, notably steep price cuts by Tesla for its new models.
"Why would you buy a car used when you can get the same car new?" said Karl Brauer, executive analyst at iSeeCars.
Hertz helped create a glut in the market when it decided to sell 30,000 cars from its E.V. fleet because it was losing money on them. The proliferation of new electric vehicle models from Hyundai, Kia, Ford Motor, General Motors and others have created intense competition and driven down prices.
But there are signs that prices for used electric vehicles are stabilizing. Newer models with longer-range batteries have held their value pretty well, according to John Helveston, an assistant professor at George Washington University who has studied the market for used electric vehicles. Depreciation rates are "moving in the direction of convergence" with gasoline vehicles, he said, "but we're not there yet."
Leasing is one way to avoid the risk that an electric vehicle will plunge in value or be rendered obsolete by newer technology. When the lease is up, any depreciation is the dealer's problem.
Or buy a used electric vehicle that has already depreciated. By some estimates, used electric vehicles now cost less than used gasoline cars. "If you're interested in an E.V. it's a great way to go," Mr. Helveston said.
How much can I save on fuel?
People naturally focus on sticker prices when shopping for cars. The average price of a new electric car or pickup was $ 56,371 in June, according to estimates by Cox Automotive, compared with $ 48,644 for all vehicles.
But many people will recoup that difference from lower maintenance and fuel costs. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that an electric Ford F-150 Lightning pickup costs $ 1,100 per year to charge, less than half the annual cost to tank the most fuel-efficient gasoline-powered F-150.
Of course, actual savings vary depending on current gasoline prices, local electricity rates and driving habits.
Maintenance costs are usually lower because electric vehicles don't need oil changes and don't have spark plugs or mufflers that must be periodically replaced. They have fewer moving parts to break down. Electric vehicles do, however, tend to wear out tires more quickly because batteries are very heavy.
How to value the environmental benefits?
Some of the benefits of electric vehicles are hard to put a dollar value on. Many people will enjoy the peace of mind that comes from driving a vehicle that generates far fewer greenhouse gases and other pollutants. (Though they are not without environmental impacts.)
Over its lifetime, a midsize electric sedan with 300 miles of range produces half the greenhouse gases as a comparable gasoline-powered car, according to a study published in November by Argonne National Laboratory that took into account emissions from mining, manufacturing and electricity generation.
Electric vehicles produce none of the nitrogen oxides and other pollutants that cause asthma and other respiratory problems. And many people enjoy the swift acceleration and quietness of electric vehicles, as well as the convenience of charging at home if you have your own driveway. Whether it's worth paying a higher sticker price for those benefits is a matter of personal preference.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAOMI ANDERSON-SUBRYAN) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Gasoline prices; Electric rates; Pollutants; Automobile industry; Environmental impact; Greenhouse gases; Cost control; Electric vehicles; Price cuts

Business indexing term: Subject: Gasoline prices Automobile industry Cost control Price cuts

Company / organization: Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/29/climate/electric-cars-ev-battery-value.html

Title: Electric Cars Help the Climate. But Are They Good Value?:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 6, 2024

column: Ask Nyt Climate

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3089066036

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-cars-help-climate-are-they-good-value/docview/3089066036/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

You Say Tomato, I Say Dinner: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Weinstein, Emily

Publication info: Weinstein, Emily. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/you-say-tomato-i-dinner/docview/3086176697/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Put summer's crown jewel to work in a simple meatball pan sauce, a luxurious tangle of garlicky pasta or a beloved dumpling salad.
Let's get something out of the way: The best way to eat a summer tomato is to just eat it, thickly sliced and lightly showered with salt.
That's what I'm doing with those fat beefsteaks and heirlooms, so juicy that they nearly collapse into a mosaic of seeds and pulp on the cutting board. You can riff on that basic formula -- ripe tomatoes plus salt -- by adding cucumber, watermelon, peaches or mozzarella for salads, or layering them on toast for something like pan con tomate, or sandwiching them with bacon for a lush BLT with smoky crunch.
But if you're going to eat tomatoes at just about every meal -- very much my intention for the month of August -- you should change up the repertoire a bit. I want recipes that put tomatoes to work, leveraging their distinct sweetness and acidic ping.
Here are five tomato dinners that do just that, by grating or dicing them, roasting them, lightly sautéing them or simply cutting them up and drizzling them with a sparky vinaigrette. (Not a tomato eater? Here's a collection of more than 100 easy summer dinner recipes.)
Requests? Suggestions? Reach out to me anytime at dearemily@nytimes.com. And if you like the work we do at New York Times Cooking, please consider subscribing!
1. Gingery Meatballs in Tomato Sauce
Canned tomatoes are among the best pantry ingredients out there: Sauces and tomato-thickened stews are only the crank of a can opener away. But there's a taste difference between canned tomatoes and fresh, a brightness you can get from only the latter. You'll notice it in this recipe from Melissa Clark, in which diced fresh tomatoes are quickly simmered to make a zingy sauce. Use any kind of meat you like for the meatballs: pork, turkey, chicken, beef or plant-based.
View this recipe.
2. Salmon With Freshly Grated Tomatoes and Butter
Carolina Gelen's salmon recipe also turns summer tomatoes into a quickly cooked sauce. She grates her tomatoes rather than dicing them (as Melissa does for the meatballs above), an easy trick that gives you an elegant pool for the butter-seared salmon.
View this recipe.
3. Roasted Shrimp With Okra and Tomatoes
The marriage of okra and tomatoes is deeply Southern, and they're often stewed or sautéed together. But you don't always see them roasted, which is what Kia Damon does here. In her recipe, the okra softens, the tomatoes sweeten and the quickly roasted shrimp bring the dish into a state of summer bliss.
View this recipe.
4. Fresh Tomato, Basil and Prosciutto Pasta
In my dreams, this luxurious but simple tangle of pasta from Christian Reynoso is what I'd eat on vacation at an Italian villa, seated on a terrace overlooking the hills of Emilia-Romagna. Instead I'll make it at home for supper on a Wednesday night.
View this recipe.
5. Dumpling Tomato Salad With Chile Crisp Vinaigrette
This dish from Hetty Lui McKinnon gets its electricity from chile crisp and rice vinegar and its juiciness from salted fresh tomatoes. Use any frozen potstickers you want in this reader-favorite meal for summer nights.
View this recipe.
We wrote a cookbook! "Easy Weeknight Dinners: 100 Fast, Flavor-Packed Meals for Busy People Who Still Want Something Good to Eat" comes out on Oct. 8. Preorder it now.
Thanks for reading and cooking. If you like the work we do at New York Times Cooking, please subscribe! (Or give a subscription as a gift !) You can follow us on Instagram , Facebook and Pinterest , or follow me on Instagram . I'm dearemily@nytimes.com , and previous newsletters are archived here . Reach out to my colleagues at cookingcare@nytimes.com if you have any questions about your account.
View all recipes in your weekly plan.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIA GARTLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SAMANTHA SENEVIRATNE.; ARMANDO RAFAEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: CYD RAFTUS McDOWELL. (D4); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN GARDNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: GREG LOFTS.; DAVID MALOSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS) (D5). This article appeared in print on page D4, D5.

Subject: Recipes; Cooking; Tomatoes

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/30/dining/five-weeknight-tomato-dishes.html

Title: You Say Tomato, I Say Dinner:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 31, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3086176697

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/you-say-tomato-i-dinner/docview/3086176697/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Five Weeknight Dishes: Gingery Meatballs in Tomato Sauce and More

Author: Weinstein, Emily

Publication info: Weinstein, Emily. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/five-weeknight-dishes-gingery-meatballs-tomato/docview/3086126653/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Let’s get something out of the way: The best way to eat a summer tomato is to just eat it, thickly sliced and lightly showered with salt.
That’s what I’m doing with those fat beefsteaks and heirlooms, so juicy that they nearly collapse into a mosaic of seeds and pulp on the cutting board. You can riff on that basic formula — ripe tomatoes plus salt — by adding cucumber, watermelon, peaches or mozzarella for salads, or layering them on toast for something like pan con tomate, or sandwiching them with bacon for a lush BLT with smoky crunch.
But if you’re going to eat tomatoes at just about every meal — very much my intention for the month of August — you should change up the repertoire a bit. I want recipes that put tomatoes to work, leveraging their distinct sweetness and acidic ping.
Here are five tomato dinners that do just that, by grating or dicing them, roasting them, lightly sautéing them or simply cutting them up and drizzling them with a sparky vinaigrette.
1. Gingery Meatballs in Tomato Sauce
Most meatballs in tomato sauce rely on canned tomatoes for the kind of heady, garlicky recipe that’s typically spooned over spaghetti. But this recipe is made from briefly cooked fresh tomatoes for something lighter and brighter, seasoned with ginger, cilantro, lime juice and a dusting of cumin. It’s a perfect place to use up those overripe summer tomatoes, and it works well with just-ripe tomatoes, too. Feel free to use any kind of ground meat here: pork, beef, turkey, chicken, lamb or vegan meat. Then, serve it with crusty bread or rice to catch all of the zippy, fragrant sauce.
By Melissa Clark
Yield: 4 servings
Total time: 30 minutes
Ingredients:
2 tablespoons finely grated or minced fresh ginger
3 garlic cloves, finely grated or minced
1 teaspoon ground cumin, more for serving
1 teaspoon fine sea or table salt, more as needed
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
1 pound ground pork (or turkey, chicken, beef, lamb or vegan meat)
1/2 cup panko bread crumbs (or use plain)
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh cilantro leaves and tender stems, more for serving
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
2 cups diced fresh ripe or overripe tomatoes
1 teaspoon fish sauce or soy sauce
4 scallions, thinly sliced
1 lime, halved
Preparation:
1. In a large bowl, mix together 1 tablespoon ginger, the garlic, cumin, salt and coriander. Add pork, panko and cilantro. Using your hands, gently mix everything together, making sure not to overwork the mixture. (Otherwise, the meatballs get tough.) Form into 1 1/4-inch balls.
2. Heat a large skillet over medium-high, then add the oil and let it heat up until it thins out. Add meatballs in one layer. Cook, turning and shaking the pan, until meatballs are browned all over, 5 to 7 minutes.
3. Move meatballs to one side of the pan, scraping up any browned bits. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon ginger to the empty side of the pan and sauté for 1 minute. Add tomatoes, fish sauce and a pinch of salt to the empty side of the pan. When tomatoes are simmering, cover the pan, lower the heat to medium, and let cook until the meatballs are no longer pink at the center, about 5 to 8 minutes longer.
4. Uncover the pan. Mix the scallions into the sauce. Squeeze lime juice all over everything, then stir together. Taste, and add salt and lime juice as needed. Serve the meatballs sprinkled with more cumin and topped with cilantro.
2. Salmon With Freshly Grated Tomatoes and Butter
With a minimal list of ingredients and prep, this light, flavorful salmon and tomato dish is an excellent contender for the perfect summer dinner. When tomato season is in full swing, this one-pan recipe makes the most of all those ripe, tender, bursting tomatoes. For fresh tomato flavor, the tomatoes are coarsely grated, yielding a delicate, low-effort sauce that is sweet and tangy, an ideal accompaniment for buttery seared salmon. Simple aromatics like freshly grated garlic, black pepper and thyme sprigs are simmered alongside the fish to round out the flavor. A piece of crusty toast to absorb all those juices completes the meal, along with an optional glass of white wine.
By Carolina Gelen
Yield: 4 servings
Total time: 35 minutes
Ingredients:
3 large heirloom or beefsteak tomatoes (about 1 1/4 pounds), halved
4 skin-on salmon fillets (6 to 8 ounces each)
Salt and pepper
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
6 thyme sprigs, plus more for serving
2 garlic cloves, grated
Toast, for serving
Preparation:
1. Place a box grater in a medium bowl. Place the flat, cut side of each tomato half against the coarse side of the grater and grate the tomatoes in the bowl, stopping when you reach the tomato skin. Discard (or snack on) the tomato skins. You should have 1 3/4 to 2 cups of grated tomatoes.
2. Using paper towels, pat dry the salmon fillets. Season with salt on all sides.
3. In a 10- to 12-inch skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Place the salmon fillets skin-side down and sear for 3 minutes, until the skin becomes crispy and easily releases from the pan. Flip the fillets and continue searing for 2 to 3 minutes, until a light crust forms.
4. Decrease heat to low to prevent the butter from burning. Transfer the salmon to a clean plate.
5. Carefully add the thyme sprigs, garlic and 1 teaspoon coarsely ground pepper to the skillet and cook for 1 minute, until fragrant. Be careful, the butter will splatter after adding the thyme; you may want to partly cover the skillet with a lid until the splattering stops.
6. Carefully pour the grated tomatoes in the skillet, season with salt and bring the mixture to a simmer. Decrease heat to medium-low and place the fish in the tomato sauce, skin-side down. Loosely cover the skillet with a lid and simmer for 10 to 15 minutes until the salmon is cooked through. The sauce will reduce slightly and go from a pinkish-red to an orange-red. Serve with toast and fresh thyme.
3. Roasted Shrimp With Okra and Tomatoes
In the South, okra and tomatoes are the crown jewels of the summer. Frying is the most common preparation for okra, but roasting also brings the best out of these two favorites; tomatoes become sweeter and okra softens, developing a deeper savoriness brought forward by a simple seasoning of salt and pepper. Shrimp brings the dish to a new level: The smoked paprika and oregano are a perfect foil to the shrimp’s own natural, delicate flavor, and, swirled together with the olive oil and tomato juice in the pan, the result is a meal with the makings of a stew with a fraction of the time and effort. It truly tastes like a warm, summer, Sunday evening. When choosing okra, go for the smaller to medium sized pods. The bigger the okra, the more likely it is to be stringy and tough. Serve with cooked rice or atop angel hair pasta.
By Kia Damon
Yield: 4 servings
Total time: 25 minutes
Ingredients:
1 pound (21 to 30 count) peeled and deveined shrimp (tails on)
2 tablespoons dried oregano
1/2 tablespoon smoked paprika
Salt and black pepper
1/4 cup olive oil
1 pound small to medium okra, trimmed
1 pint cherry tomatoes
Lemon wedges, for serving
Preparation:
1. Heat the oven to 450 degrees and line a sheet pan with aluminum foil. In a medium bowl, combine the shrimp, oregano, smoked paprika, a few pinches of salt and 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Mix well and set aside.
2. Add the okra and tomatoes to the pan, season with salt and several cracks of black pepper, then drizzle the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil over top. Mix well, spread evenly then place on the top rack of the oven. Roast until the okra is softened and the tomatoes are soft and have released their juices, about 15 minutes.
3. Take the pan out of the oven, put the tomatoes and okra in a large bowl, then spread the shrimp evenly on the same pan and toss to coat in the pan juices. Return the pan to the oven and roast until the shrimp are cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes.
4. Remove the shrimp from the oven, then toss with the okra and tomatoes, along with any pan juices. Taste for salt. Serve on a large platter and finish with a squeeze of lemon.
4. Fresh Tomato, Basil and Prosciutto Pasta
This summertime pasta of lightly sizzled garlic and tomatoes with torn basil is satisfyingly easy and delicious. It’s also a reminder that with really great ingredients, not a lot of cooking is necessary to create a stand-out meal. Melt-in-your-mouth prosciutto and dollops of ricotta add a little richness to contrast with all the freshness, leaving you with a colorful main that doesn’t really need much else, but a sprinkle of crushed red-pepper flakes or a few thin rings of jalapeño or sweet red pepper could be welcome additions.
By Christian Reynoso
Yield: 4 servings
Total time: 30 minutes
Ingredients:
12 ounces spaghetti
Salt and pepper
6 garlic cloves
1 1/2 pounds ripe tomatoes (any variety)
1/3 cup olive oil, plus more for drizzling
1 1/2 cups fresh basil leaves
3 to 4 ounces thinly sliced prosciutto, preferably at room temperature
1/2 cup fresh ricotta, preferably at room temperature
Preparation:
1. Cook pasta according to package instructions in a large pot of salted boiling water until al dente, then drain.
2. While the pasta is cooking, thinly slice the garlic and cut the tomatoes into large bite-size pieces (3/4- to 1-inch chunks, wedges or slices, or just halves of cherry tomatoes, if using).
3. Heat the olive oil in a large skillet or sauté pan over medium. After 2 minutes, add the garlic and let sizzle for about 1 minute without browning, then add the tomatoes and use tongs to toss in the garlic oil. Season with salt and cook, tossing gently, until tomatoes are warmed through and have started to release their juices but are still intact, about 3 minutes. Turn off heat.
4. Add the pasta to the warm tomatoes, then tear the basil into pieces and toss together with the pasta, tomatoes and garlic. Season with salt and pepper.
5. To serve, transfer warm pasta onto plates, tear the prosciutto into pieces and drape them over top. Dollop on the ricotta, season with salt and pepper and finish with a drizzle of olive oil.
5. Dumpling Tomato Salad With Chile Crisp Vinaigrette
Harness the crowd-pleasing power of dumplings in this hearty yet light main course salad. The base is simple and summery: Ripe tomatoes are lightly touched with salt, garlic and basil, providing a perfectly fragrant canvas for pan-fried potsticker dumplings. Salting intensifies the tanginess and fruitiness of tomatoes, while also coaxing out some of the juice, which becomes a light sauce for the dumplings. (Salting also works wonders for out-of-season tomatoes, meaning you could eat this salad all year round.) Use your favorite chile crisp as it is the dominant flavor in the dressing and will greatly impact the final dish; all brands of crisp will have different levels of saltiness and spice, so season accordingly.
By Hetty Lui McKinnon
Yield: 4 servings
Total time: 20 minutes
Ingredients:
For the salad:
2 1/2 pounds ripe tomatoes (any variety), cut into roughly 1- to 2-inch pieces (at room temperature)
1 garlic clove, grated
1/2 cup basil leaves, torn
Kosher salt (such as Diamond Crystal brand) and black pepper
1 pound frozen potsticker dumplings (not thawed)
Neutral oil, such as canola or vegetable
1 to 2 tablespoons store-bought crispy fried shallots (optional)
For the chile crisp vinaigrette:
3 tablespoons chile crisp (or chile oil)
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 tablespoon soy sauce, or more to taste
Preparation:
1. Place the tomatoes on a large serving plate or in a bowl. Add the garlic, half the basil leaves, 1 teaspoon of salt and a big pinch of black pepper. Toss to combine and set aside.
2. To make the vinaigrette, combine the chile crisp, rice vinegar and soy sauce and whisk to combine. Taste and if it needs more saltiness, add ½ teaspoon more soy sauce.
3. Heat a large (12-inch) nonstick or well-seasoned cast-iron skillet over medium high for 1 to 2 minutes until very hot. Add 1 to 2 tablespoons of oil and, working in batches, add the dumplings, flat-side down, and cook until the bottoms of the dumplings are lightly browned, 1 to 2 minutes. Immediately add about ¼ cup of water to the pan, just enough to cover the base of the dumplings, then cover and cook until the water has evaporated, 3 to 4 minutes. (If your dumplings contain meat, cook for an extra 1 to 2 minutes, or according to packet instructions). Transfer the cooked dumplings to a plate and continue cooking the remaining dumplings. (If you prefer to steam the dumplings, see Tip.)
4. To serve, place the warm dumplings over the tomato salad and drizzle with the chile crisp vinaigrette. Toss very gently. Top with the crispy fried shallots (if using) and the remaining basil leaves. Serve either while the dumplings are still warm or at room temperature.
Tips:
To steam, arrange the dumplings in a steaming basket lined with baking paper or cabbage leaves, place over a pan of boiling water and steam for 10 to 15 minutes.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Veganism; Recipes; Olive oil; Garlic; Tomatoes; Summer; Salmon; Pasta

Identifier / keyword: Veganism; Sauces; Seafood; Ovens And Stoves; Juices; Limes; Cookware; Ginger; Lifestyle; Cooking And Cookbooks; Vegetables; Fish And Other Marine Life; Okra (Vegetable); Ham; Salad Dressings; Paprika; Summer (Season); Clark, Melissa; Oils And Fats; Chile; Spices; Meat; Peppers; Skin; Pasta; Fruit; Frauds And Swindling; Cheese; Recipes; Herbs; Garlic; Pork; Condiments; Citrus Fruits; Soy Sauce; Lemons; Tomatoes; Salmon; Salads; Turkeys; Soybeans; Cloves; Rice; Salt; Sandwiches

Title: Five Weeknight Dishes: Gingery Meatballs in Tomato Sauce and More

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 30, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-30T22:31:47Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3086126653

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/five-weeknight-dishes-gingery-meatballs-tomato/docview/3086126653/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Rental Agencies Are Rethinking Electric Vehicles After Disastrous Resales: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack; Searcey, Dionne

Publication info: Ewing, Jack; Searcey, Dionne. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rental-agencies-are-rethinking-electric-vehicles/docview/3081512372/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Rental car firms are offering temporary deals on electric cars, which they are selling after they lost value more quickly than expected.
If you've been wanting to try an electric vehicle, renting can be an affordable option. But finding one may soon become much more difficult.
Electric vehicles have been financially disastrous for rental companies, especially Hertz, which in January scaled back plans to acquire 100,000 Teslas after the cars' resale values plunged much faster than the company had expected.
Hertz's experience had a chilling effect on its industry, and many rental car companies are now trying to sell off electric vehicles at deep discounts. And it may be a while before they start buying again.
Last year, more than 4 percent of the cars sold by manufacturers to rental companies were electric, according to S&P Global Mobility. So far this year, that number is just 1.4 percent.
In theory, renting an electric car is a great way for people to try and become comfortable with new types of vehicles like battery-powered cars that produce no tailpipe emissions. "The potential that rental companies can have in reshaping consumer behavior and helping to promote adoption is critical," said Stephanie Valdez-Streaty, the director of industry insights at Cox Automotive. "But there's a long way to go."
Ms. Valdez-Streaty said rental firms had recently been offering good deals on electric vehicles, but those were unlikely to last as the companies thinned their fleets of such cars.
Hertz and other rental car companies found that offering customers electric vehicles at a profit was more difficult than they had expected. Most rental car complexes at airports lacked chargers. Many renters were not prepared for how quickly electric cars accelerated, leading to more accidents and higher insurance premiums. And some companies found they couldn't get spare parts for such cars as quickly as they could for gasoline cars.
"They thought E.V.s would be more simple and straightforward and cheaper to maintain," said Karl Brauer, an executive analyst at iSeeCars.com, an online car search site. "They're finding that's not true."
In a statement, Hertz said it would "continue to offer our customers the widest possible choice of vehicle makes and models, including electric vehicles."
The biggest problem for the rental companies was the rapid depreciation of cars made by Tesla, the leading manufacturer of electric cars. The company, led by Elon Musk, sharply cut prices on new models last year to prop up sales. That pushed down the prices for used Teslas. A study released last month from iSeeCars.com found that used electric vehicles had lost value faster than the average used gas car had this year and, in May, cost less on average than used gasoline cars for the first time.
Resale values are a critical part of the financial calculus for rental companies because they generally sell cars before they accumulate too many miles. Rental car companies record losses when they sell cars for less than they expected to. In the first three months of the year, the diminished value of Hertz's electric fleet lowered its profit by $ 195 million.
Rental companies "are 100 percent dependent on residual values," said Shay Natarajan, a partner at Mobility Impact Partners, a private equity firm that invests in sustainable transportation. "It's just a very difficult business model."
James Iovino, who lives in Baldwin, N.Y., listed about nine electric vehicles on the car-sharing website Turo. But he got out of the business a month or so ago after E.V. prices dropped.
"I got burned for the same reason Hertz got hurt -- Elon Musk opens his mouth and the industry takes a dive," he said.
But some rental car companies say they are not dumping battery-powered cars because of the recent drop in prices.
Enterprise Mobility has several thousand electric vehicles available in the United States, Canada and Europe, and will add more depending on market demand, said Mike Wilmering, a spokesman for the company. Enterprise is also working on making more chargers available to its customers.
"We're looking beyond how many chargers are available and working to identify power needs and access -- both in our locations and the communities we serve," Mr. Wilmering said. "We want customers to have a great experience with E.V.s, and we're keeping them at the center of our long-term strategy."
Some people who have never driven an electric vehicle face a steep learning curve when they are given a battery-powered car. Rental companies typically do not have the staff to give customers a tutorial. Hertz, for example, offers information online for electric vehicle renters and sends them instructions by email.
Tom Moore and his wife rented a Tesla from a Hertz location in Portland, Ore., last year as a test run for buying an electric car.
His wife, who did the bulk of the driving, asked a Tesla-owning neighbor back home in Mountain View, Calif., for a lesson before their trip. It was a good idea -- the Hertz employees did not offer any instructions before handing over the key fob.
"They just said, 'This is your parking place,"' Mr. Moore said.
Hertz said it "learned a lot as a first mover in the E.V. rental market, and, as we align our fleet with consumer demand, we're focused on continuously enhancing the rental experience, which includes making it easy and rewarding for all customers."
Refueling has been another issue. Many rental companies expect customers to recharge electric vehicles to around 70 percent before returning them. That means customers must plan to stop at a charger near the end of their trips, which is not always easy to do when people are trying to catch flights and there aren't enough fast chargers near the rental car center.
Rental companies don't want to be responsible for charging because they like to get cars back on the road quickly. It can also be difficult for rental companies to install chargers at airports.
"Airports are notorious for being unfriendly for electric infrastructure development," said Raghu Iyengar, an executive at Volkswagen of America whose duties include sales to rental companies. Demand from rental companies for Volkswagen's ID.4 electric sport utility vehicle has been close to zero, he said.
People who rent Teslas have access to its Supercharger network, the largest fast-charging system in the United States. But most Superchargers work only with Tesla cars. People who rent cars made by automakers like Kia, General Motors or Polestar must use chargers offered by other operators, each with its own mobile phone app for payment. Renters also need to be aware that there are few or no fast chargers in many parts of the country, especially in rural areas.
But even in the heart of the technology industry, driving a rented electric car can be difficult.
Kerry Dietz, a retired architect who lives in Springfield, Mass., reserved the "manager's special" last year at Thrifty Car Rental, which belongs to Hertz, during a trip to Berkeley, Calif. She owned a Tesla at the time and was no stranger to electric driving. But Thrifty gave her a Polestar, a car designed in Sweden and manufactured in China that was not able to use Tesla's charging network.
"I spent the entire time we were there trying to find a place to charge -- a place to charge where stuff worked," Ms. Dietz said. "It was a really frustrating experience."
As electric vehicles become more popular, rental companies will have to figure out how to offer them, Mr. Iyengar of Volkswagen said. "There's going to be an electric tide that lifts all boats," he said, "and rental is going to follow that."
Photograph In January, the rental agency Hertz scaled back plans to acquire 100,000 Teslas after the cars' resale values plunged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAMY) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Corporate profits; Electric vehicles; Airports

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits Airports

Location: United States--US

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/14/business/electric-vehicles-rental-cars.html

Title: Rental Agencies Are Rethinking Electric Vehicles After Disastrous Resales:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 17, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3081512372

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rental-agencies-are-rethinking-electric-vehicles/docview/3081512372/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cigarettes After Sex Isn't Done Yet: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Sisario, Ben

Publication info: Sisario, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cigarettes-after-sex-isnt-done-yet/docview/3079853258/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The buzzy band that makes woozy, sensual music is releasing its third LP and starting an arena tour. It's part of a wave reviving the fuzzed-out aesthetic of shoegaze.
In 2016, after a four-year-old track by a struggling Brooklyn band called Cigarettes After Sex blew up on YouTube, the group's brand of crisp, lovesick minimalism began selling out clubs all over Europe. At a tour stop in Prague, Greg Gonzalez, its leader, saw unticketed fans weeping in the street.
"OK, this is bizarre," Gonzalez remembered thinking. "But that showed me that this is doing what it's supposed to do. This is music that's meant for emotional people that are in love. That's what music did for me. So I thought, that's what I want my music to do for somebody else."
Eight years later, that pattern has repeated for Cigarettes After Sex, on a far grander scale. Although largely ignored by the mainstream media, the band's spare, crystalline ballads have again caught fire online -- this time on TikTok -- racking up almost 10 billion streams around the world. Its third album, "X's," will be released on July 12 via the indie label Partisan, and an exhaustive global tour includes sold-out stops at Madison Square Garden as well as the Kia Forum near Los Angeles, and arenas throughout Europe, Asia, the Middle East, South Africa and Australia. By stealth, Cigarettes After Sex has become one of the biggest cult bands in the world.
Its success is also a high-water mark in rock's latest retro revival, for shoegaze and dream-pop -- appropriately nebulous terms for a range of music from the 1980s and early '90s, when groups like My Bloody Valentine, Slowdive, Cocteau Twins and Lush cloaked melodies in waves of shimmering guitar or synthesizers, along a sonic scale from gauzy reverie to caustic noise. Long a recurrent strain in indie-pop, the sound has been catapulted by TikTok to a new level of popularity among Gen Z acts like Wisp, Sign Crushes Motorist and Quannnic that are posting millions of streams and dotting festival lineups.
Cigarettes After Sex represents one end of this spectrum, with a carefully calibrated, almost cinematic approach: a hushed, dark landscape punctuated by splashes of color from Gonzalez's guitar, topped by his whisper-soft, almost feminine singing voice. But in an interview in an East Village hotel bar, Gonzalez -- who in person speaks in an easy, rapid-fire baritone -- said he sees Cigarettes After Sex as fitting more in a tradition of classic, moody love songs, referencing Marvin Gaye, Françoise Hardy and Al Green.
"It's not about 'let's create this atmosphere,' and that's all," said Gonzalez, 41, whose black Ray-Bans never left his face. "The Cocteau Twins, you could argue, is more that kind of thing," he added, referring to the foundational Scottish dream-pop trio whose lyrics were often a jumble of fantastical verbiage. "What if you could do that and also had lyrics you could relate to more?"
Those lyrics can be strikingly raunchy, but with a verisimilitude that Gonzalez said is often straight autobiography.
The band's origins go back to Gonzalez's days at the University of Texas at El Paso in 2008, where, he said, his early songwriting efforts, inspired by the Smiths and the Jesus and Mary Chain, were reverb-drenched and overstuffed. Gonzalez's approach changed when he encountered "The Trinity Session," the Cowboy Junkies' hear-a-pin-drop 1988 album that was recorded around a single microphone.
To capture that same intimacy, Gonzalez set up his band in the echoey stairwell of the college music building and recorded its performances live. It was a eureka moment: "I finally found some kind of identity that feels special."
Gonzalez moved to New York and self-released four songs from those sessions as an EP called "I." Its black-and-white cover photo by Man Ray, of human anatomy turned surreal landscape, established a stark yet erotic visual identity that Gonzalez has stuck with ever since. (He later moved to Los Angeles.)
But Cigarettes After Sex had little success until a cut from that EP, "Nothing's Gonna Hurt You Baby," began garnering millions of views on YouTube after it was promoted to some of the site's European users. Gonzalez, who had no label or manager at the time, began fielding thousands of curious emails.
Pouncing on the momentum, the group went on tour and signed with Partisan, and its self-titled debut album arrived in 2017. One weightless track from it, "Apocalypse," caught the ear of a SiriusXM programmer, Chris Muckley, who put it into rotation. "It took all the best things I liked about the xx, Mazzy Star and the Jesus and Mary Chain," Muckley recalled. "It's an aural sedative."
That was nothing compared to the boost Cigarettes After Sex got during the pandemic. Its songs became the soundtrack to hundreds of thousands of TikTok videos, when young users added lilting snippets of tracks like "Apocalypse," "K." or "Cry" to extreme close-ups of their faces, in bliss or in tears. "Apocalypse" alone has since cleared two billion streams, according to Partisan.
"X's" tweaks the formula only a bit to achieve what might be called Cigarettes After Sex's version of dance-floor bangers. That means slightly more elevated tempos, with grooves that were composed over drum loops. On past albums Jacob Tomsky had played a stripped-down drum kit, with a sonic wash from a single ride cymbal; on "X's," he plays a more danceable hi-hat instead. (The band also includes Randall Miller on bass, with Jeff Kite contributing keyboards.) But from the threesome described in the title track, the thematic continuity is clear.
Rare among indie rockers, Gonzalez is also unapologetic about commercial ambitions. "When you write, you want to aspire to be among the greatest, and you want to stand on the shoulders of the giants that got you there," he said. "So you want to be the biggest because you respect those artists that were the biggest as well, right?"
WHILE CIGARETTES AFTER SEX was building a fan base, a noisier brand of neo-shoegaze music was taking hold on TikTok, abetted by YouTube tutorials offering step-by-step instructions for mimicking the fuzzy guitar effects that gave the original stuff its distinctive sound.
Last year, an 18-year-old computer science student at San Francisco State University named Natalie Lu began tinkering with a ready-made backing track she found on YouTube, recording her voice through her AirPods. The result, "Your Face," was a vortex of serrated guitars and ethereal vocals about unrequited love set to a lunging, wave-tossed beat.
Lu posted the track to TikTok under the name Wisp, and by the next morning it had gotten over 100,000 views. Within a few days it crossed half a million, and soon Lu was fielding calls from trend-chasing record companies. Before Wisp had played a single concert, Lu signed with Interscope Records, the major label behind stars like Billie Eilish and Lana Del Rey. Next month Wisp -- now a full band -- is playing Lollapalooza in Chicago.
"It was a complete shock to me," Lu, now 19, said in a video interview from her new home in Los Angeles, where she sported a pink-purple dye job recalling vintage Lush. "But I'm happy that people on that platform enjoy it, and I think TikTok is a really good app to use, to just market your music and make connections."
What gets called shoegaze now is a shaggy agglomeration of indie-rock that may feature bits of shimmering feedback or any number of '90s influences. Quannnic, another solo project, can conjure Radiohead's infatuation with dehumanized electronics. Wednesday could be heirs of Sonic Youth or Dinosaur Jr. The Boston band Horse Jumper of Love, with slow, ragged grooves, are more lo-fi rock than anything.
"Shoegaze used to mean one thing, which was a giant pedal board," said Will Anderson, whose bands Hotline TNT and Weed also get the tag, though they could just as accurately be described as grunge descendants. "It inches a little wider every year. That's like anything else -- pop or indie or punk."
Phil Pirrone, co-founder of the Desert Daze festival in Lake Perris, Calif., which has hosted reunion performances by OG shoegazers like My Bloody Valentine, Slowdive and Ride, said the revival built gradually but now seems to be everywhere. Desert Daze's next event, in October, will feature Wisp and what he said were an array of other neo-shoegaze groups.
"We are living in a maximalist future in which every era is being romanticized by some demographic of people," Pirrone said. Shoegaze, he said, "as dreamy as it is, it's also dangerous, fatalistic. There's something romantic about that in this day and age."
It also represents a shift in the effects of streaming media. Half a generation ago, the playlist economy was pushing producers in a pop direction, rewarding tracks that front-loaded their hooks. Shoegaze and dream-pop, on the other hand, take time to cast their spell -- though in the era of TikTok, even the most cinematic expanse still gets compressed into a few bars of sonic wallpaper.
When the term shoegaze was first used in the British music press in the late 1980s, it was a lightly mocking insult aimed at a clutch of bands that appeared diffident onstage because their members tended to hang their heads downward -- as they stared at their guitar effects pedals.
"We were consciously wanting to get away from the Simple Minds, U2, big-star-onstage thing," Andy Bell of the band Ride said in an interview. "I think a lot of shoegaze came from the fact that we were trying to be humble, to let the music speak, create a really huge wall of noise and let that be the sound." Since the band reunited in 2014, Bell said, he has noticed its live crowds getting younger and younger.
Miki Berenyi, of Lush, recalled that by 1991, when her band toured with Ride, the winking humor of the term had evaporated once American journalists began applying it wholesale. "It's interesting," Berenyi said, "how the irony or the sarcasm was lost in this shift over to America."
In Britain, the original shoegaze wave died with the rise of Britpop in the mid-90s; in the United States, if it took hold at all, it was blasted away by grunge. But the sound never completely vanished, and it got new attention after My Bloody Valentine reunited in 2008. Groups like Diiv and Beach House -- whose hypnotic 2015 track "Space Song" has crossed a billion streams on Spotify -- absorbed the influence of shoegaze and dream-pop, setting up the next generation.
Despite Cigarettes After Sex's popularity on TikTok, the key to its success may be old-fashioned touring. The band has crisscrossed the globe multiple times, building up loyal -- and notably young -- fan bases in Poland, India, Indonesia, South America; the United States has only recently caught up as to the rest of the world as one of its top live markets. For some tours in Asia and the Middle East, where public standards may be less liberal, the band is advertised only under the name CAS.
And while the band's slow-motion soundscapes can recall classic dream-pop or the soundtrack to "Twin Peaks," to Gonzalez, the only thing old-fashioned about Cigarettes After Sex is its insistence on romantic songwriting.
"I just thought it'd be nice to have someone who pretty much only does love songs," he said. "You're not really going to go wrong in that department."
Photograph From left: Jacob Tomsky, Randall Miller and Greg Gonzalez of Cigarettes After Sex. The band's third album, "X's," was released recently. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGDALENA WOSINSKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR11); Natalie Lu, a computer science student who records as Wisp, signed a deal with Interscope before she even played a concert. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK ESPINAL) (AR15) This article appeared in print on page AR11, AR15.

Subject: Guitars; Bands; Cigarettes; Musical performances

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Jesus & Mary Chain; NAICS: 711130; Name: Cocteau Twins; NAICS: 711130; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Slowdive; NAICS: 711130; Name: My Bloody Valentine; NAICS: 711130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/11/arts/music/cigarettes-after-sex-shoegaze-dreampop.html

Title: Cigarettes After Sex Isn't Done Yet:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 14, 2024

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3079853258

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cigarettes-after-sex-isnt-done-yet/docview/3079853258/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Sales of E.V.s Surge, Tesla Market Share Falls Below 50% for 1st Time: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-sales-e-v-s-surge-tesla-market-share-falls/docview/3077594507/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A new report estimates that the company led by Elon Musk accounted for just under half of all battery-powered vehicles sold in the second quarter of the year.
Tesla's once-commanding share of the market for electric vehicles in the United States slipped below 50 percent in the second quarter of the year even as sales of battery-powered cars surged to a record, according to new estimates published Tuesday by a research firm.
Tesla accounted for 49.7 percent of electric vehicles sales from April through June, down from 59.3 percent a year earlier as the company led by Elon Musk lost ground to General Motors, Ford Motor, Hyundai and Kia, the research firm, Cox Automotive said. It was the first time the company's market share fell below 50 percent in a quarter, according to Cox. The firm, a leading auto industry researcher, estimates market share based on registrations, company reports and other data.
The numbers are the latest sign that Tesla is losing its dominance in a market it in effect created in 2012 when it introduced the Model S sedan. Before that car, very few electric vehicles were sold in the United States. Overall, U.S. electric vehicle sales climbed 11.3 percent from a year earlier, suggesting that consumer demand for the technology remains healthy even if sales are no longer growing at more than 40 percent a year as they were last year. Americans bought or leased more than 330,000 electric cars and light trucks during the quarter, accounting for 8 percent of all new cars sold or leased in the three-month period. A year earlier, electric vehicles accounted for 7.2 percent of the market, Cox said.
A few years ago Tesla didn't have many competitors, and pretty much no other company could match its cars' driving range on a full charge or acceleration. But established carmakers have been introducing electric vehicles that can travel 300 miles or more, equaling and sometimes exceeding the capabilities of Tesla's cars.
There are well over 100 electric models available in the United States, according to a separate report published Tuesday by the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, an industry group. Prices have fallen as the supply and variety of models have increased, making it possible for more people to afford one.
Intense competition "is leading to continued price pressure, helping push E.V. adoption slowly higher," Stephanie Valdez Streaty, director of industry insights at Cox, said in a statement.
Many consumers are now buying electric cars from established carmakers like BMW or Ford, which have large dealer networks that can provide maintenance and repairs. Tesla sells cars online and many consumers have said that it can be hard to get their cars repaired at the company's relatively small network of service centers.
Tesla sales have also suffered from an aging lineup. Its best-selling vehicle, the Model Y, went on sale in 2020, making it dated by industry standards. Hyundai and its sister company, Kia, offer more electric models than Tesla, with competitive prices and newer designs.
After a slow start in the last couple of years, G.M. has recently begun rolling out vehicles designed to be electric, rather than models converted from gasoline cars. The company is also now using batteries made in the United States in a joint venture with LG Energy Solution. In a few months, G.M. is expected to start selling an electric version of G.M.'s Chevrolet Equinox sport utility vehicle for around $ 35,000 before taking into account a $ 7,500 federal tax credit.
Tesla said last week that its global sales fell 4.8 percent, to around 444,000, in the second quarter from the period a year ago. The company does not break out its sales by country, but Cox estimates that Tesla's U.S. sales fell 6.3 percent in the second quarter, to 164,000 cars.
Mr. Musk may have also hurt Tesla sales with his embrace of right-wing politics on X, the social media platform he owns. Electric vehicle owners tend to be liberal or left-leaning and electric vehicle sales are highest in states that generally elect Democrats for statewide and federal offices.
In recent quarters, sales of electric vehicles have not grown as fast as some automakers had expected, but the market is still expanding faster than the one for gasoline vehicles. The market for hybrid vehicles has lately been growing even faster than for fully electric vehicles; hybrids, which do not have to be plugged in, allow consumers to avoid a patchy national public charging network.
Not all carmakers are benefiting. Electric models including Mercedes-Benz, Polestar, Porsche and Volvo fell in the second quarter from a year earlier, Cox said. The firm said it would publish detailed sales and market share figures on Thursday.
Tesla is now facing competition from more than 100 electric models, which has driven prices down as well. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN JUSTICE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Consumers; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Market shares

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Automobile sales Market shares

Location: United States--US

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/09/business/tesla-electric-vehicles-market-share.html

Title: As Sales of E.V.s Surge, Tesla Market Share Falls Below 50% for 1st Time:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 10, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3077594507

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-sales-e-v-s-surge-tesla-market-share-falls/docview/3077594507/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Who Is in Charge When 2 Young Drivers Hit the Road?: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Richtel, Matt

Publication info: Richtel, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-is-charge-when-2-young-drivers-hit-road/docview/3076324116/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Can my son learn from the example of the robot controlling the steering wheel? Or should it be the other way around?
At the corner of Iris Ave and Folsom in North Boulder, my Model 3 Tesla was self-driving when it showed up two human drivers in the lane just in front of us. All three of us were turning left -- two flesh-and-blood drivers and my robot -- when the two humans violated a basic traffic rule by swinging wide and turning into the right hand lane.
The Tesla hugged the inside lane, as the driver manual indicates is the proper rule of the road. I wished my teenage son had been watching.
Milo is 15, with a learner's permit. It is my fantasy that when he gets his license, he will develop the memory, rote behaviors and mundane habits that have shown themselves possible in the short life span of self-driving cars. On the other hand, my son is less likely than the Tesla's software to suddenly disengage and just stop steering altogether (requiring me to take over).
The machine and the adolescent each have brains still under development, a human mind governed by millions of years of evolutionary biology, and algorithms shaped by decades of engineers. Seen through the lens of cognition and neuroscience, the contrast says a lot about the next generation of drivers.
For now, only the Tesla (not my son) has been involved in wrecks. The federal government in April reported that Tesla's Autopilot technology was involved 956 crashes between January of 2018, and August of 2023, including 29 fatalities. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration report found that, "Autopilot's system controls may be insufficient for a driver assistance system that requires constant supervision by a human driver."
Also recently, Elon Musk concluded talks in Beijing to clear the way with regulators to bring Autopilot to Chinese roads. Lots of other companies are developing their own versions -- General Motors, BMW, Mercedes, Lincoln, Kia, and others -- most that take some control in limited situations, like on the highway.
In short, don't doubt that these cars will be on the road soon enough, as surely as my son will have his license within a year. He inherits a daunting task; statistically speaking driving is the most dangerous regular activity most of us will do in our lives.
Roughly 43,000 people Americans died in crashes in 2021, according to the latest data, a 16-year high, to say nothing of hundreds of thousands of serious injuries. Teen drivers, their brains not fully developed and with less driving experience, have a four times greater risk of crashing than people over 20.
After years of reporting on driver safety, I can say assuredly why we face such risk: a mismatch between the capacity of the human brain and the complexity of the roadway. It presents an onslaught of fast-changing stimulation, inputs and risk. Cars, pedestrians and cyclists dive in and out of our frame, our brains fatigue, get distracted, miss an input; we are human, with biologically limited attention and cognition, piloting a car that is a missile at highway speeds.
From this perspective, I watch my son learn in our Toyota Highlander. To stay focused, he prefers the radio off, and low volume on parental commentary. His solemn task shows in his tight grip of the wheel, the forward lean of his body as if to get a little more connected to what's happening outside the windshield. When he gets in a groove, I ask him to identify the various inputs around him, the car in his blind spot, the cyclist turning right without signaling, the pedestrian looking down at a phone. He gets tired. Driving safely takes effort. For all the control and adolescent glory that comes with taking the wheel, sometimes, he'd just as soon not.
When it comes to supervising our leased Tesla, there is a single aspect of the technology that, to me, highlights the study in contrasts: On the screen, where the map is displayed, an animation shows the surrounding inputs the Tesla picks up with its multiple cameras and sensors. Cars materialize around us, intersections appear as we approach, dotted with the presence of cyclists or pedestrians. It seemingly sees everything, everywhere, all at once, processing multiple streams of information in parallel. For example, when the Tesla "sees" something on the right, it does not do so at the expense of seeing something to the left; my son can only look one way at a time.
The algorithm drives at night, and in the rain. It is exceedingly rule driven. In fact, its strict adherence has caused frustration to other drivers -- and my teen passengers -- by rigorously following the speed limit. One teen passenger said to me: "It's sus," meaning suspect, "because it only goes 20 miles an hour." We were in a school zone.
"Even though automated vehicles are not perfect, they work surprisingly well and are getting better all the time," I was told by David Strayer, a cognitive neuroscientist at the University of Utah and one of the world's foremost experts on driver distraction. "We really need to focus on relative risk," he added, meaning computers can save many more lives than they risk taking, largely because of their cognitive advantage.
"They don't get distracted. They don't get fatigued. They don't get drunk or high. They speed only if the driver tells them to."
They do glitch, though. On occasion over the last few months since I've been trying the technology, the Tesla's software has suddenly disengaged, requiring me to immediately seize control. I feel like an attendant at a high-speed Disney ride that inexplicably jumps the tracks and heads for the Burger Hut. It is jarring. Take Over! Save Us All!
To be fair, the system warns me constantly to keep my hands on the wheel and be prepared to take over. Sometimes, the auto-driving disengages because I tug too hard on the wheel, suggesting I'm inclined to take over. Other times when it bugs out, who knows what happened inside that mysterious algorithm? Did a one and zero get crossed?
In the federal government's latest report on Tesla's crashes activity, it said the car continues to rely too much of human supervision, and, also, humans aren't always on the job. Crash outcomes can be severe "when a driver is disengaged with the Tesla vehicle operating in Autopilot and the vehicle encounters a circumstance outside of Autopilot's object or event detection response capabilities"
What a potent statement: the car and the human must pay attention when neither of their brains is yet fully suited for the job.
Still, for the moment, I'd trust my son to drive me home before I'd trust the Tesla; I just don't know when the car will check out, or why, and what I could possibly do to discourage this glitch.
Soon enough, humans will relinquish the controls. When that happens, I'm not sure it will be because the robots have virtually limitless cognition and will keep us safer, true though that may be. The real reason that robots will take the wheel is because humans have better things to do than drive. Stream a show, stretch our legs, nap. At that point, when machines rule the road, I can tell my teen to go ahead and watch TikTok behind the wheel, although I guess at that point I wouldn't mind the development of self-watching social media.
Photograph Milo Richtel, top and above, drives the family's Toyota Highlander while his father, Matt, looks on. Middle row, from left: a computer program is doing the driving for a Tesla, but Matt Richtel is behind the wheel of the vehicle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES STUKENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU4.

Subject: Fatalities; Pedestrians; Traffic accidents & safety; Cognition & reasoning; Roads & highways; Automobile driving

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/06/business/tesla-teen-driver.html

Title: Who Is in Charge When 2 Young Drivers Hit the Road?:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 7, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3076324116

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-is-charge-when-2-young-drivers-hit-road/docview/3076324116/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Auto Sales Grow Slightly Despite Rates and Uncertainty: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E; Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E; Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/auto-sales-grow-slightly-despite-rates/docview/3074885743/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: High interest rates, economic uncertainty and a cyberattack appear to have dampened sales in the three months through June.
Much of the auto industry, with the notable exception of Tesla, reported modest sales growth in the three months through June as high interest rates, high vehicle prices and uncertainty about the economy weighed on consumers.
Sales in late June were also slowed by disruptions at car dealers stemming from a cyberattack on a company that supplies software and data services to dealerships.
Cox Automotive, a market research firm, estimated on Tuesday that 4.1 million new cars and trucks were sold in the second quarter in the United States, up a little from the period in 2023. That's a marked slowdown from the year's first three months, when sales grew 5 percent. In the first six months of 2024, 7.9 million new vehicles were sold, an increase of 3 percent from the first half of last year, Cox said.
Slow growth is likely to continue through the end of the year, said Jonathan Smoke, Cox's chief economist. "The market is roiled by uncertainty," he said. "We probably can't quite keep the pace of sales of the first half, but we aren't expecting a collapse in sales."
Cox has forecast that 15.9 million new cars and trucks will be sold in the United States this year. That would be an increase from the 15.5 million sold last year, but still well below the 17 million vehicles sold annually before the pandemic.
General Motors said on Tuesday that it sold nearly 700,000 cars and light trucks in the United States in the second quarter, an increase of less than 1 percent from the period last year. The company said it was its best performance since the fourth quarter of 2020.
The quarterly total included nearly 22,000 electric vehicles, up 40 percent from a year earlier. Almost all were models that use G.M.'s more advanced Ultium battery technology. Its top-selling electric models were the Cadillac Lyriq, a luxury sport utility vehicle, and the Chevrolet Blazer, also an S.U.V.
G.M. said sales in the first six months of 2024 totaled 1.3 million vehicles, down slightly from the same period in 2023.
Toyota sold more than 621,000 vehicles in the second quarter in the United States, an increase of 9 percent from the year-ago period. In the first three months of the year, Toyota's sales rose 20 percent.
The Japanese automaker, the world's largest, is still getting a boost from hybrid and plug-in hybrid models, whose sales have picked up significantly as consumer interest in electric vehicles has tailed off. Toyota sold nearly 250,000 hybrid and electric models in the second quarter, a rise of 63 percent from the period in 2023.
Reflecting the softening demand for E.V.s, Tesla said its global sales fell 4.8 percent, to around 444,000, in the second quarter from the period a year ago. The company's sales have fallen for two consecutive quarters; they declined 8.5 percent in the first three months of the year from a year earlier.
Tesla does not report sales for the U.S. market. Cox estimated that Tesla's U.S. sales fell 16 percent in the second quarter, to 175,000 cars.
The company's global second-quarter sales were higher than analysts had expected, supported by price cuts in some markets and the company's offer of loans carrying an interest rate as low as 1 percent on the Model Y sport utility vehicle.
Tesla once had the market for electric cars almost all to itself, but it has faced growing competition from Chinese carmakers like BYD, Nio and SAIC. The Chinese brands undercut Tesla on price in their home market while offering features like dashboard screens that can be rotated by voice command.
BYD said on Monday that its second-quarter electric vehicle sales jumped 21 percent from a year earlier, and 40 percent when including plug-in hybrid cars.
In Europe, Tesla was in fifth place in April in electric car sales, according to Schmidt Automotive Research, behind Volkswagen; Geely Auto, which owns Volvo and Polestar; Stellantis, which owns Peugeot and Fiat; and BMW.
Tesla's market share for electric vehicles in the United States is expected to fall below 50 percent this year as G.M., Honda and other established carmakers offer models with newer designs than the Model Y and Model 3, which account for 95 percent of Tesla sales.
Stellantis -- the maker of Chrysler, Dodge, Ram and Jeep vehicles -- suffered a sales decline of 21 percent in the second quarter, to about 345,000 cars and trucks.
As a result, Stellantis slipped behind Honda and Hyundai-Kia in sales. Honda said its U.S. sales rose 3 percent in the second quarter, to more than 356,000 vehicles. Hyundai and Kia together sold 421,558 cars and trucks.
Ford Motor is expected to report sales figures on Wednesday.
Cox said the average price of new vehicles sold domestically in May was $ 48,389, near the record of about $ 50,000 set at the end of 2022.
High interest rates have also dampened demand. The average interest rate paid on new-vehicle loans in June was 10 percent, the highest in 24 years, Cox said.
Photograph Cox Automotive, a market research firm, has forecast 15.9 million new cars and trucks will be sold this year. That would be up from last year's 15.5 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES/GETTY IMAGES); A Tesla Supercharger station in California. Tesla said its global sales fell 4.8 percent, to around 444,000, in the second quarter from the period a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN JUSTICE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Interest rates; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Interest rates Automobile sales Automobile dealers

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/02/business/economy/auto-sales-second-quarter.html

Title: Auto Sales Grow Slightly Despite Rates and Uncertainty:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 3, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3074885743

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/auto-sales-grow-slightly-despite-rates/docview/3074885743/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Musk's Views May Push Some Tesla Buyers Away: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musks-views-may-push-some-tesla-buyers-away/docview/3074885718/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Tesla chief executive's polarizing statements have alienated some potential customers and may be partly responsible for a recent slump in sales.
Few auto executives are as closely identified with the companies they manage as Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla, is. And probably none are more prolific in broadcasting their political views on social media.
But as Mr. Musk's public persona has become increasingly right wing, Tesla appears to be paying a price in sales, especially to liberal and left-leaning customers who are much more likely to buy battery-powered cars than conservatives are, according to analysts and many car owners who responded to a questionnaire on The New York Times's website about whether his behavior affected their views of Tesla.
His image as an erratic, impulsive manager appears to have rubbed off on the cars, raising doubts in some people's minds about their quality and helping to explain why Tesla sales have been falling. On Tuesday, the company reported that its global sales in the second quarter fell 4.8 percent from the same period a year earlier, after an 8.5 percent drop in the first three months of the year.
"Musk is a true lightning rod," said Ben Rose, the president of Battle Road Research, which has a generally positive view on Tesla's stock. "There are people who swear by him and people who swear at him. No question, some of his comments are a real turnoff for some people. For a subset, enough to buy another brand."
Tesla and a representative for the company's board did not respond to requests for comment.
Some of the more than 7,500 people who responded to The Times's questionnaire said they were offended by what they perceived as antisemitism from Mr. Musk, which he denies. Some were upset by the way Mr. Musk has managed Twitter, now called X, since he bought the company in 2022. He fired thousands of employees and removed guardrails on content shared on the social media platform. His increasingly friendly relations with former President Donald J. Trump and other conservative personalities were also cited as concerns. A vast majority of the readers who responded to the questionnaire were critical of Mr. Musk.
"You're basically driving around a giant red MAGA hat," said Aaron Shepherd, a product designer at Microsoft in Seattle who said he was planning to buy an electric Volkswagen ID.4 instead of a Tesla.
It is not possible to know what price Tesla has paid for Mr. Musk's political statements and activities. What is clear is that Tesla, once the dominant seller of electric vehicles worldwide, has lost market share in many countries for a variety of reasons. Chief among them is the company's reliance on the Model Y sport utility vehicle and the Model 3 sedan, which haven't been substantially updated in years, for almost all of its sales. Other companies are luring buyers by introducing new or updated cars more frequently.
In China, domestic carmakers like BYD have gained ground on Tesla by offering more affordable cars with technology features that appeal to Chinese consumers, like rotating screens. In Europe, BMW, Volkswagen and other local brands are doing well by offering more luxurious or cheaper cars than Tesla. And in the United States, Hyundai-Kia, Ford Motor and General Motors have increased sales by offering a growing selection of models.
Times readers who responded to the online questionnaire said they had been turned off by Mr. Musk's statements and by their experience with Tesla's cars and service operations -- the company sells and services cars directly, rather than through dealers.
"There's a time when I'd have given Musk an organ if he needed one," said Tim Yocum, an engineering director at a software company. But Mr. Yocum, who lives in Chicago, said that he had experienced problems with his Tesla Model S and that he had been unsatisfied with the company's repair and maintenance services. Mr. Musk's veer to the right has also upset him.
"Tesla is the only manufacturer in contemporary times that has unapologetically let its C.E.O. take a tiki torch to its good name," Mr. Yocum said. "This car will be the last Tesla I own."
Such comments help illuminate surveys that say Tesla's reputation has suffered recently. The company slipped to 63rd place in the 2024 Axios Harris Poll 100, which asked respondents about their views on corporate brands. In 2021, the company was in eighth place.
Mr. Musk has maintained that his public statements and persona don't affect Tesla's sales. "We make the best cars," he said at The Times's DealBook Summit in November. "Whether you hate me, like me or are indifferent, do you want the best car or not the best car?"
Mr. Musk still has plenty of passionate admirers. And some said the executive's public statements would not influence their decision to buy a Tesla. Many people gave him credit for pushing the auto industry to produce electric vehicles, a powerful tool to combat climate change.
"He has led a company that has successfully disrupted a corrupt, lazy car industry," said Julian Mehnle, a software engineer who lives in San Francisco. While no fan of Mr. Musk, Mr. Mehnle said, "I'm adult enough to separate these concerns from my choice of consumer products."
Robert Dean, an architect who lives in Redding, Conn., echoed those sentiments: "Musk is a gigantic, disruptive talent with a transformative and positive effect on the world we live in. He also is an oddball personality, but I'm not marrying him; I'm buying cars from a company he brilliantly leads."
Most of Tesla's shareholders remain largely supportive of Mr. Musk. Last month, investors endorsed a $ 45 billion compensation plan for him by a wide margin.
Yet car buyers whom The Times heard from and analysts said Mr. Musk's political activity had clearly hurt the company's reputation with left-leaning consumers. And there is little evidence that Mr. Musk's turn to the right has attracted more conservatives to buy Teslas. In fact, 77 percent of Republicans and Republican-leaning voters said this year that they were not interested in battery-powered cars, up from 70 percent who said the same last year, according to the Pew Research Center.
"He might be winning some people who like his positions," said Greg Silverman, the global director of brand economics at Interbrand, a consulting firm that advises clients on marketing strategies. But, he added, the odds that Mr. Musk is attracting more customers rather than pushing them away "are very low."
Interbrand research indicates that a chief executive or other company representative who offends customers can reduce sales as much as 10 percent, Mr. Silverman said.
Some car owners' concerns went beyond Mr. Musk's political statements. They cited accusations of racial discrimination at Tesla factories, or the perception that he has allowed racist content to flourish on X. Tesla has denied that it tolerates discrimination at its factories.
"My mother was seriously debating buying a Tesla," said Achidi Ndifang, who works in information technology in Baltimore. "As a Black person, I felt like it would be an insult for my mother to drive a Tesla."
Derek Morf, a high school math teacher in Verona, N.J., reported feeling alarmed when Tesla removed the Disney Plus app from some dashboard screens late last year, apparently because Mr. Musk was angry at Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Disney.
Mr. Morf didn't care that much about the Disney app. But, he said, he found it unsettling "that the vehicle I purchased could have features changed in an instant simply because one man had that much control."
Such concerns could be a liability for Tesla as it pours resources into autonomous driving technology. Mr. Musk has promised to unveil a self-driving taxi on Aug. 8. The technology cannot succeed without trust from consumers.
Many Times readers pointed out that other car companies also had baggage. Volkswagen had an emissions scandal a few years ago. Henry Ford, the founder of Ford Motor, held and spread antisemitic views. A decade ago, G.M. sold cars with faulty ignition switches that were blamed for more than 100 deaths.
Established car companies still sell gasoline cars that emit greenhouse gases and other pollutants. Tesla sells only electric cars.
But probably no other current auto executive has as loud a megaphone as Mr. Musk has, or is more willing to use it.
"If people think that the C.E.O.s of other companies are saints, they are a bit naïve in my opinion," said Jan Leys, a Tesla owner in Zurich. "They just don't have as big a mouth and/or platform as Elon Musk."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Antisemitism; Automobiles; Software; Consumers; Politics; Electric vehicles; Compensation plans; Social networks; Questionnaires; Political polarization

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Compensation plans Social networks

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Interbrand; NAICS: 541611, 541613; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/02/business/elon-musk-politics-tesla-sales.html

Title: Musk's Views May Push Some Tesla Buyers Away:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 3, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3074885718

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musks-views-may-push-some-tesla-buyers-away/docview/3074885718/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Who Should Be the Lord of Tupac Shakur's Ring?: [Style Desk]

Author: Sadiba Hasan

Publication info: Sadiba Hasan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-should-be-lord-tupac-shakurs-ring/docview/3072505723/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At Mr. Lamar's Juneteenth concert on Wednesday, he made a request for Drake to return Mr. Shakur's iconic crown ring. Is this about more than just beef between the two rappers?
When Kendrick Lamar made his entrance to his sold-out show at the Kia Forum in Inglewood, Calif., on Juneteenth, he did so with a bang. He performed "Euphoria," a track he released in April during his well-documented feud with Drake, adding a new lyric: "Give me Tupac ring back and maybe I'll give you a little respect."
The internet went wild.
This was Mr. Lamar's first time performing since his testy dispute with Drake escalated into a volley of diss tracks this spring. For the show, titled "The Pop Out: Ken & Friends," he brought out fellow West Coast artists such as Dr. Dre, YG, Tyler, the Creator, Schoolboy Q and Steve Lacy, the next generation of musicians from the region after Tupac Shakur. It was a victory lap after unofficially winning the war.
Mr. Lamar had been questioning Drake's authenticity and status among Black musicians and fans, and adding the line about Mr. Shakur's ring only doubled down on that message.
The ring is one of the most iconic jewelry pieces in hip-hop history. It features a 14-karat crown encrusted with cabochon rubies and pavé diamonds. It also bears the inscription "Pac & Dada 1996," referring to his engagement to Kidada Jones, the daughter of Quincy Jones. The ring, which he designed himself, commemorates both the founding of his media company, Euphanasia, and his romance with Ms. Jones. He wore it at the 1996 MTV Video Music Awards, his last public appearance before his killing.
In August 2023, Drake purchased the ring from an auction at Sotheby's for $ 1.01 million. That irked Mr. Lamar, who has taken the baton of West Coast rap from Mr. Shakur and has been influenced by his legacy.
According to Vikki Tobak, author of the 2022 book "Ice Cold: A Hip-Hop Jewelry History," jewelry has long been a symbol of allegiance and brotherhood in hip-hop.
"Drake just sort of buying his cred -- it doesn't sit well with a lot of people," Ms. Tobak said.
She added: "By saying, 'give me the ring,' he means 'me' in a bigger sense. 'Me' as in hip-hop, the real hip-hop. 'Me,' the real legacy of what Tupac stands for. Kendrick is using jewelry as a way to disrespect Drake and say, 'We are the ones that should be the holders of that ring because we are the true representatives of what Pac and that ring stood for."'
But Mr. Lamar's added lyric also raises this question: Where do hip-hop artifacts get placed, and who takes ownership of them?
Ms. Tobak also curated "Ice Cold: An Exhibition of Hip-Hop Jewelry," which is on exhibit at New York's Museum of Natural History until January. She tried to include Mr. Shakur's ring and some of Pharrell Williams's early jewelry, which Drake had also purchased in auctions. She said that she made a request to Drake through a representative but he declined.
"I think when it comes to hip-hop, it's really important to keep certain pieces accessible to the communities that the music is from," she said, adding that the purchases indicate a move toward artifacts "being taken out of the public eye and into private hands."
Last year, Drake purchased several pieces of Mr. Williams's old jewelry via the online auction platform Joopiter. He then released "Meltdown," a song with Travis Scott, in which he takes jabs at Mr. Williams and his camp -- "a sign of some good old hip-hop disrespect," Ms. Tobak said.
The point that Mr. Lamar is making, and has been making, is that he is "the culture." His live show on Wednesday was an ode to "the culture" and to West Coast hip-hop.
There was speculation that even the outfit Mr. Lamar wore -- a red sweatshirt, white hoodie, jeans and a massive cross chain -- was replicating Mr. Shakur's outfit from a 1994 performance. (Mr. Lamar doesn't typically wear flashy chains.)
And at the end of the show, he brought out scores of notable Los Angeles figures -- like the N.B.A. players Russell Westbrook and DeMar DeRozan -- and gang members, regardless of section. ("You ain't seen this many sections on one stage keeping it together and having peace," Mr. Lamar said at the show.) He dapped up person after person while playing his hit song "Not Like Us," another Drake diss, which he performed five times in a row.
"I promise this won't be the last you see of us," Mr. Lamar said, before walking off the stage.
Photograph Above, from left: Tupac Shakur's ring has a 14-karat crown encrusted with rubies and pavé diamonds; some people think the clothes Kendrick Lamar wore at a Los Angeles concert replicate a Tupac outfit from a 1994 show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED JONES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; GABRIELLA ANGOTTI-JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Jewelry; Juneteenth; Musicians & conductors; Hip hop culture; Musical performances

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Lamar, Kendrick; Shakur, Tupac

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/20/style/kendrick-lamar-drake-tupac-ring.html

Title: Who Should Be the Lord of Tupac Shakur's Ring?:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 27, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3072505723

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-should-be-lord-tupac-shakurs-ring/docview/3072505723/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

McDonald's Ends a Trial Of A.I. Use: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Sanders, Hank

Publication info: Sanders, Hank. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mcdonalds-ends-trial-i-use/docview/3071360269/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ordering mistakes frustrated customers during nearly three years of tests. But competitors like White Castle and Wendy's say their A.I. ordering systems have been highly accurate.
In the nearly three years since McDonald's announced that it was partnering with IBM to develop a drive-through order taker powered by artificial intelligence, videos popped up on social media showing confused and frustrated customers trying to correct comically inaccurate meals.
"Stop! Stop! Stop!" two friends screamed with humorous anguish on a TikTok video as an A.I. drive-through misunderstands their order, tallying up 240, 250 and then 260 Chicken McNuggets.
In other videos, the A.I. rings up a customer for nine iced teas instead of one, fails to explain why a customer could not order Mountain Dew and thought another wanted to add bacon to his ice cream.
So when McDonald's announced in a June 13 internal email, obtained by the trade publication Restaurant Business, that it was ending its partnership with IBM and shutting down its A.I. tests at more than 100 U.S. drive-throughs, customers who had interacted with the service were probably not shocked.
The decision to abandon the IBM deal comes as many other businesses, including its competitors, are investing in A.I. But it exemplifies some of the challenges companies are facing as they jockey to unlock the revolutionary technology's potential.
Other fast-food companies have had success with A.I. ordering. Last year, Wendy's formed a partnership with Google Cloud to build out its A.I. drive-through system. Carl's Jr. and Taco John's have hired Presto, a voice A.I. firm for restaurants. Panda Express has approximately 30 automated order takers at its windows through a partnership with the voice A.I. firm SoundHound AI.
Another SoundHound partner, White Castle, has A.I. assistants taking orders in 15 drive-throughs and plans to roll out 100 more, spokeswomen for the two companies said. The technology completes almost 90 percent of orders without human involvement, works efficiently with staff and reduces wait times for customers during rush hour, Jamie Richardson, a vice president at White Castle, said.
"It's great for customers; it's equally great for team members," he told The New York Times. "I am not able to speculate why others wouldn't invest in similar technology but we've been really happy with ours."
Keyvan Mohajer, the chief executive and co-founder of SoundHound, thinks the departure by McDonald's is simply an example of a failed partnership.
"It was very clear that they are abandoning IBM, they are not abandoning voice A.I.," he said. "They are very quickly pursuing other vendors."
McDonald's confirmed its intention to eventually return to this technology, writing in the internal email that "a voice-ordering solution" would be in the chain's future.
In a statement, IBM said it looks forward to continuing to working with McDonald's, adding that it is "in discussions and pilots" with several restaurants that are interested in building out their automated order technology. McDonald's confirmed the termination of its A.I. drive-throughs to The Times, but neither company would answer more specific questions.
Several researchers and experts in the industry see the McDonald's exit as an example of how the new technology is not yet meeting expectations. They doubted that the company would make a speedy return to testing A.I. ordering in its drive-throughs.
"A.I. systems often have this very large upfront cost," said Neil Thompson, the director of FutureTech, a research project at M.I.T.'s computer science and artificial intelligence laboratory. (FutureTech has worked with IBM but Mr. Thompson said that he had no inside knowledge of the deal with McDonald's.)
Currently, voice A.I. is inaccurate often enough that it requires some level of human oversight, which decreases cost savings, Mr. Thompson said. And McDonald's has a strong alternative offering with higher profit margins: its mobile app.
"The app saves 100 percent of that labor involved in taking that order in a way these A.I. systems, at least currently, are not able to do for them," Mr. Thompson said. "That makes it just much more economically attractive for them to be using the app than to be using the A.I."
McDonald's has not ditched all of its A.I. investments. In December 2023, the company announced that it was working with Google Cloud. A spokesman for the tech giant said it would be applied to "business use cases," declining to be more specific.
Alex Imas, a behavioral science and economics professor at the University of Chicago, predicted that McDonald's will watch from the sidelines as its competitors explore the technology.
The McDonald's business model is not based on saving on the cost of a few drive-through workers, Mr. Imas said. "I think they are going to want to wait and make sure this thing is ready for commercial use."
He expects McDonald's to use A.I. in other ways, perhaps by following the example of Target, which recently announced that it was using the technology to assist its employees.
Gee Lefevre, the interim chief executive of Presto, acknowledged that the technology is very new -- "less than 0.5 percent of all U.S. drive-throughs" are testing the use of A.I. to take voice orders, he said.
But he also noted that many early attempts have been successful.
Wendy's, in an email to The Times, said that its A.I. drive-throughs operate without human help on 86 percent of orders. And Presto has had a roughly 90 percent rate with most of its clients, Mr. Lefevre said.
He believes McDonald's struggled because it used the wrong type of A.I.
"The IBM model was still based on natural-language understanding," Mr. Lefevre said, explaining that the model works like a tree. When the A.I. hears the customer's order, it has a limited number of branches to follow that dictate its responses and actions.
This works really well when everything is going right, Mr. Lefevre said. But in a drive-through, where indecisive customers frequently change their orders, he said, chains would be better off using the type of large-language model that powers chatbots like ChatGPT.
As companies continue to test their A.I. drive-through technologies, expect to see more videos of people getting bacon ice cream, condiments instead of food or enough nuggets to feed a sports team.
But ask Mr. Mohajer where voice A.I. is going and he'll tell you why SoundHound has partnered with car companies like Kia and Jeep.
Picture this.
You're driving home from work when all the sudden the car asks, "Are you hungry?"
After a few minutes of chatting with your vehicle, you decide on a burger, fries and a shake. The car finds the nearest greasy spoon, places your order for you and plugs in the directions. In three minutes, you pull up and there's dinner, sitting patiently in a pickup lane, waiting for you to arrive.
Photograph A McDonald's in Los Angeles. The company is ending an A.I. ordering experiment, even as other fast-food chains are increasing their use of A.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Customers; Artificial intelligence; Automation; Cost control; Fast food industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Customers Artificial intelligence Automation Cost control Fast food industry

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: McDonalds Corp; NAICS: 533110, 722513

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/21/business/mcdonalds-ai-drive-thru-white-castle.html

Title: McDonald's Ends a Trial Of A.I. Use:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y .

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3071360269

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mcdonalds-ends-trial-i-use/docview/3071360269/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tips for Renting an E.V. for Your Vacation: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Carrns, Ann

Publication info: Carrns, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tips-renting-e-v-your-vacation/docview/3070926029/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Even with more fast-charging stations available, having a smooth electric vehicle experience still takes planning, our columnist found.
Are you curious about electric vehicles but not ready to buy one? Renting one can help you see what it's like -- and some car rental companies are offering discounts.
But having a smooth electric vehicle experience, especially if you rent for vacation, requires a fair amount of planning because fast-charging stations, while more available than they were four years ago, still aren't ubiquitous, like gas stations.
For now, an E.V. may work best for a long weekend or a trip where you plan to stay in one place and take day excursions, rather than an epic coast-to-coast trek.
"A cross-country road trip?" said Damon Bell, senior research editor at Cars.com, an online automobile marketplace. "It can be done, but you're making things a little trickier."
Most E.V. owners install special electrical outlets at home that allow them to charge their cars overnight so they don't have to worry much about finding public charging stations. But if you rent an E.V. for a trip, you'll want to map out the location of stations along routes you expect to travel.
There are now about 70,000 public charging stations with 186,000 ports, or stalls -- the E.V. equivalent of gas pumps -- across the country, according to the federal government. But they're not uniformly distributed. Fast chargers -- which can juice up a battery in minutes, rather than hours -- are generally concentrated on the East and West Coasts and in parts of Texas.
Greg Brannon, director of automotive engineering and industry relations at the automobile owners group AAA, said driving an E.V. on an extended road trip may increase the time you'll be in the car by 20 to 30 percent. That's because you'll need to find chargers and wait till the battery is charged. In high-demand areas, you may have to wait in line for a fast-charging port to become available.
"E.V.s do not work very well on long road trips," he said, particularly if you are renting a car other than a Tesla, which has the most expansive network of fast chargers. (Some non-Tesla cars, like Fords and Rivians, can use some Tesla Supercharger stations, but only with a special charging adapter that is not widely available. Major E.V. manufacturers, however, are rolling out cars compatible with Tesla stations starting with the 2025 model year, according to Consumer Reports.)
The median E.V. range is now about 270 miles per charge, although the range depends on the type of battery, road conditions, temperature and your driving style. Very hot or very cold weather can affect the range. And unlike gas cars, which typically get more miles per gallon in highway driving, E.V.s may have reduced range on freeways, Mr. Brannon said, because of the way the cars operate.
Planning out your route and identifying charging stations before you hit the road can tamp down "range anxiety," the worry about depleting the battery. Various apps, including PlugShare, can help you find public charging stations.
If such complexities don't deter you, now may be a good time to try an E.V., since some companies are offering deals to encourage rentals. The big rental companies have had some ups and downs with E.V.s. Hertz, for instance, said this year that it would reduce its fleet of electric cars because they lost value more quickly than projected and demand was lower than expected. Hertz said in an email that it provided resources to help educate new E.V. drivers and offered several models at rates comparable to gasoline-powered cars.
I rented an E.V. with my husband over the three-day Memorial Day weekend in the Boston area. At the city's airport, one rental company (Budget) was offering a 50 percent discount to renters who switched their reservation from a conventional car to an E.V. In a statement, Budget said, "We find that E.V. rentals are most attractive to customers who have the ability to plan for charging throughout their journey."
I had already reserved an E.V. online, so I didn't qualify for the half-price deal, the customer representative said. Even so, my rate wasn't bad for an airport rental on a busy holiday weekend -- about $ 89 a day, including the myriad fees and cash back on an Amazon gift card, under a deal with Budget.
The first car we were offered, a Kia, lacked a basic charging cable. So we asked for another car and were given a Chevrolet Bolt, which had one. We planned to do at least some charging by plugging it into a traditional outlet at the home where we were staying. But as we quickly learned, such "Level 1" charging is painfully slow -- you get just a few miles of range for an hour of charging.
We found an Electrify America charge station near a local mall that had four ports. Two were fast chargers (the others were slower but serviceable ports, where charging the car would have taken more than an hour). One fast charger was available when we showed up on a Friday afternoon. The car was charged to 83 percent in about 30 minutes at a cost of $ 6.72, including tax. (That was a nice change from a typical $ 50 tab to fill up my gas car.) We paid with a credit card. Some charging networks offer discounts if you create an account using their apps, and some locations cost more at peak times.
The visit went smoothly. Still, half an hour is different from filling up your gas tank in five minutes.
Driving the car was fun. E.V.s are quiet and peppy because their design allows them to accelerate quickly. One difference that took some getting used to was the car's "regenerative" braking, a feature common in E.V.s and hybrid vehicles that feeds energy back to the battery when the car slows, boosting its range a bit.
In practice, this means the car quickly loses speed when you take your foot off the accelerator so you rarely have to use the brake pedal. (It's also why E.V.s have less range with highway driving. There's typically less braking.)
We liked the car enough to reserve one for a longer period, later in the summer, at an off-airport Budget location. Renting there -- and paying in advance -- worked out to about $ 31 per day for a late June/early July rental.
Here are some questions and answers about renting an E.V.:
Do I have to return the E.V. fully charged?
Typically, rental companies provide you with the car charged at 70 percent or more and require that you bring it back at the same level. If you bring it back below that level, you may pay a fee. (Budget charges $ 35.)
Do hotels and Airbnb rentals offer E.V. charging?
Hotels increasingly offer free charging as a perk, but call ahead to confirm that the chargers are working. Airbnb says searches on its website for properties with chargers grew more than 80 percent from 2022 to 2023. The company recently announced a partnership with ChargePoint, a charging network, to offer hosts discounts to install E.V. chargers.
Do I have to stay with the E.V. while it's charging?
Most network mobile apps alert you when the car is almost charged so you can leave to, say, get a coffee or a quick meal and return when the car is ready. It pays to plan your stops at chargers that are close to restaurants or other services.
But don't dawdle. If you fail to move the car once the battery is sufficiently charged, you may face "idle time" fees meant to deter users from hogging ports when other cars are waiting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Rentals; Planning; Electric vehicles; Roads & highways; Airports

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/21/your-money/renting-electric-vehicle-vacation.html

Title: Tips for Renting an E.V. for Your Vacation:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 22, 2024

column: Your Money Adviser

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3070926029

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tips-renting-e-v-your-vacation/docview/3070926029/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kendrick Lamar's Victory Lap Unites L.A.: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Weingarten, Christopher R; Angotti-Jones, Gabriella

Publication info: Weingarten, Christopher R; Angotti-Jones, Gabriella. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kendrick-lamars-victory-lap-unites-l/docview/3070926001/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Kendrick Lamar's sold-out homecoming at the Kia Forum, an arena just outside Los Angeles, promised pyrotechnics with its name alone: "The Pop Out: Ken & Friends."
The "Pop Out" ensured drama -- it's from a line in Lamar's "Not Like Us," his recent No. 1 song, and a scathing salvo in his war of words with Drake.
The "& Friends" guaranteed surprise appearances from high-profile names: ultimately Dr. Dre, YG, Tyler, the Creator, Roddy Rich, Schoolboy Q and Steve Lacy, among many others. The whole thing would go down on Juneteenth, the annual celebration of Black emancipation in America, after a battle in which Lamar questioned Drake's status within the Black community.
Lamar, the most celebrated rapper of a generation, had unofficially won the most high-profile hip-hop diss war in 20 years. Fans who came in person (the event was also streamed on Amazon Music) arrived anticipating a victory lap.
Lamar's official merch booths offered T-shirts that referenced the Drake beef, but many fans opted to bring their own, far more pointed homemade versions. Using an app, Nicole Flemate from Reedley, Calif., pasted Drake's face onto a box of a drug used for weight loss that Lamar accused him of using. "I took the little nice lady out and threw Drake on there. I looked for the worst picture of Drake," she said, all laughs and smiles.
The symbolism of the show being held on Juneteenth was not lost on the crowd, many clad in colorful shirts that celebrated the holiday. Ayeshia Garrett and her husband, Jamaal, who made the trip from Chicago, both wore Juneteenth attire. "Everything Kendrick does has significance," she said. "He wants us to think deeply, beyond the art. He's trying to educate us." She added, "We have to show up and let Kendrick know we know what this is about."
Irene Kirkland from Pasadena, Calif., found significance in how a line from the battle connected to the holiday. "I remember Drake was saying, 'Oh you rap like you trying to free some slaves.' And then Kendrick comes back on Juneteenth -- the day that we were freed -- and then pops out with a Juneteenth concert. How epic is that?"
The all-star lineup poured out during DJ Mustard's opening set. The crowd screamed for Tyler, jumped for Roddy Ricch and both screamed and jumped for YG. Before Lamar emerged, the crowd began to chant a vulgar taunt aimed at Drake that plays off the name of his OVO record label.
"Kendrick stood on business the whole time, for real. He didn't lie in anything that he said," the San Diego engineering student Adrian Vargas said. "And Drake just did a whole lot of denying. Saying that he doesn't want to do this anymore, saying I don't want to beef anymore. Kendrick kind of solidified his spot as the best."
Within a set packed with hits, Lamar performed three of his five Drake diss tracks, opening with "Euphoria" and adding additional lines referencing Drake's purchase of a ring that previously belonged to Tupac Shakur. He punctuated the slight by covering Shakur's 1995 No. 1 "California Love" later in the set alongside Dr. Dre, who produced it. Members of the crowd rapped along to his incredibly wordy tracks aimed at his foe, sometimes pairing off and shouting the songs in their friends' faces.
Lamar closed the show by performing "Not Like Us," over and over again, the crowd erupting like a powder keg for the first four of the five run-throughs. After the fifth and final version, a small, informal cypher of fans emerged. Jonny Williams, who flew in from Dover, Del., was part of the group rapping it a sixth time as the instrumental played and the crowd filed out. "He could keep playing" the song, he said. "Honestly."
The beef, however, was only half the story. Gathering many of his guests onstage for a group photo, Lamar reminded the crowd that the event was also about something larger: "Unity."
"It ain't got nothing to do with no back-and-forth records, it's got everything to do with this moment right here," he announced, underscoring how different factions of the Los Angeles rap world had showed up. The afternoon's ultimate goal, he said, was "to bring all of us together."
Photograph Kendrick Lamar, left, and Ab-Soul shared the stage on Wednesday at "The Pop Out: Ken & Friends" concert. (C1); Clockwise from top left: Jonny Williams from Dover, Del., rapping to the instrumental version of "Not Like Us" at the end of the show after it had played with lyrics five times; Irene Kirkland, 28, at the sold-out Kia Forum; Adrian Vargas with his girlfriend, Regina Gasman, before the concert; and fans getting a chance to chat with the guest performer Steve Lacy, center, after he took the stage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELLA ANGOTTI-JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Rap music; Juneteenth

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Lamar, Kendrick

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/20/arts/music/kendrick-lamar-drake-not-like-us-la.html

Title: Kendrick Lamar's Victory Lap Unites L.A.:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 22, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3070926001

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kendrick-lamars-victory-lap-unites-l/docview/3070926001/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

California Supreme Court Blocks Anti-Tax Proposal: [briefing]

Author: Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-supreme-court-blocks-anti-tax-proposal/docview/3070925992/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Businesses are fuming and cities are exhaling after the State Supreme Court blocked a ballot measure at the heart of a big fight in Sacramento.
Californians are used to big political fights over ballot measures, but the fights don't usually end like this. On Thursday, the California Supreme Court unexpectedly cut short a gathering war over one of the most sweeping anti-tax proposals since the 1970s, before voters could even consider it.
The ballot measure, the Taxpayer Protection and Government Accountability Act, has been a flashpoint in Sacramento for months. It was scheduled to go before voters in November. If enacted, it would have made all kinds of taxes and fees in the state -- including those imposed by local governments and agencies -- much more difficult to raise.
The business and anti-tax groups that gathered more than a million signatures to qualify the initiative for the ballot promised that it would close loopholes and improve transparency. State officials sued, arguing that the measure would fundamentally and illegally revise the State Constitution and that it would gum up even changes in library fines.
Under California's Constitution, state tax increases already must clear a higher bar than other kinds of legislation: They require approval by two-thirds majorities in each chamber of the Legislature. But many state fees that fund public services are not classified as taxes and can be approved administratively by state boards and agencies. And many local assessments need only a simple majority of local voters or of local boards and councils.
The proposed initiative would have required that any state tax increases be approved not only by supermajorities in the Legislature but also by a majority of the state's voters directly. Fee increases that are now approved by state agencies and boards would also require legislative approval. Local special taxes would have to be approved by a two-thirds supermajority of voters. And local fee increases would require a local government vote.
The measure also would have retroactively canceled any tax and fee increases during the past two years that failed to comply with the new rules, unless voters and lawmakers re-approved them over the next 12 months.
California's Supreme Court rarely reviews ballot measures before they are put before voters. But the extent of the proposed changes and the potential to invalidate existing taxes and force local authorities to schedule new elections prompted the court to make an exception, Associate Justice Goodwin Liu wrote.
Proponents said the retroactive provisions would affect only a few dozen tax and fee increases, but city officials said the measure threatened billions of dollars in previously approved local revenue.
In Los Angeles, for instance, the measure could have forced reconsideration of a "mansion tax" on property sales of more than $ 5 million. Proceeds from the tax help pay for affordable housing. The tax was approved in 2022 by 58 percent of Los Angeles voters.
Real estate interests in the city say that the tax has depressed the luxury real estate market. If the statewide initiative passed, they were expected to demand that the Los Angeles tax be nullified unless voters passed it again by a two-thirds majority.
On Thursday, the justices unanimously ordered that the measure be kept off the ballot, because it would unconstitutionally usurp legislative authority and "transform the process of levying state taxes that has existed since the state's founding."
The decision came at a time when California lawmakers have been grappling with a significant budget shortfall. It is seen as a victory for Gov. Gavin Newsom, the Democrats who dominate state government and California's public employee unions.
Anti-tax movements have a long history in the state. Most notably, Proposition 13 in 1978 radically curtailed property taxes and set off a national tax revolt. Conservative groups have often placed anti-tax initiatives on state ballots as a way to pressure Democrats to approve pro-business legislation and to energize the state's Republican base.
"The governor believes the initiative process is a sacred part of our democracy," a spokesman for the Newsom administration said in a statement, "but as the court's decision affirmed today, that process does not allow for an illegal constitutional revision."
Initiative proponents questioned the neutrality of the seven justices, six of whom were appointed by Democratic governors.
"Any semblance of impartiality on the part of the California judiciary is now gone," said Jon Coupal, the president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association. In a statement, he and other members of the anti-tax campaign, including Rob Lapsley, president of the California Business Roundtable, and Matthew Hargrove, chief executive of the California Business Properties Association, called the court's ruling "the greatest threat to democracy California has faced in recent memory."
Proponents conceded that, for now, they had probably lost this battle. But by taking the issue off the November ballot, the ruling promises to free up substantial money on both sides that could be spent instead on congressional races and other ballot measures.
The rest of the news
Employers in California would be required to protect workers from excessive heat indoors under new standards adopted Thursday by the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health, The Associated Press reported. State prisons are excluded; they had been a sticking point in earlier efforts to adopt indoor heat standards.
Southern California
After unofficially winning the most high-profile hip-hop war in 20 years, Kendrick Lamar hosted a Juneteenth concert at the Kia Forum that celebrated Los Angeles heroes.
Firefighters continue to gain ground against the Post wildfire, which has so far caused one injury, The Associated Press reports.
Northern California
The Shasta Indian Nation is set to get back ancestral lands in the largest land return in the state's history, The Los Angeles Times reports.
Archer Aviation announced plans for an "urban mobility network" of electric flying taxis, which could shorten Bay Area commute times to minutes from hours, The Mercury News reports.
F.B.I. agents raided the home of Oakland's mayor, Sheng Thao, early Thursday as well as several other properties connected to a family that runs the city's curbside recycling program, The San Francisco Chronicle reports.
Tell us
We're almost halfway through 2024. Tell us what the best part of your year has been so far, whether it is a special birthday, graduation or just something going well in your life.
Email us at CAtoday@nytimes.com. Please include your name and the city in which you live.
And before you go, some good news
Terrie and Dave Drewry of Auburn, the owners of a donkey they named Diesel, were devastated when they lost their pet five years ago. Volunteers searched for Diesel but could not locate him.
Now, a video has revealed a clue of where he's been, CBS reports.
A hiker's social media post showed a lone donkey among a herd of elk, and the Drewrys feel confident the donkey is Diesel. The herd is only a few miles away from where Diesel was last seen in 2019.
They have no plans to separate Diesel from his new family. "Finally, we know he's good," Terrie said. "He's living his best life. He's happy."
Thanks for reading. We'll be back on Monday. Enjoy your weekend.
P.S. Here's today's Mini Crossword .
Soumya Karlamangla, Halina Bennet and Briana Scalia contributed to California Today. You can reach the team at CAtoday@nytimes.com.
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox .
Soumya Karlamangla, Halina Bennet and Briana Scalia contributed to California Today. You can reach the team at CAtoday@nytimes.com.
Photograph Rob Lapsley, president of the California Business Roundtable, along with other proponents, questioned the ruling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAN NGUYEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Government agencies; Referendums; Initiatives; Supreme Court decisions; State taxes; Voters; Fees & charges; Tax increases

Business indexing term: Subject: State taxes Tax increases

Location: United States--US; Sacramento California; California; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: California Business Roundtable; NAICS: 813910; Name: Supreme Court-California; NAICS: 922110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/21/us/california-supreme-court-tax-initiative.html

Title: California Supreme Court Blocks Anti-Tax Proposal:   [briefing ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 22, 2024

column: California Today

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3070925992

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-supreme-court-blocks-anti-tax-proposal/docview/3070925992/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-22

Database: Glo bal Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Swimming Moves to an N.F.L. Stadium for the 2028 Games in Los Angeles: [Sports Desk]

Author: Draper, Kevin; Vrentas, Jenny

Publication info: Draper, Kevin; Vrentas, Jenny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swimming-moves-n-f-l-stadium-2028-games-los/docview/3070925985/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Organizers of the Los Angeles Olympic Games hope that a huge venue for swimming, a marquee event, will draw crowds and generate much-needed revenue.
The organizers of the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles have promised to have the most ambitious sports program ever and sell more tickets than any other Games.
Now they want to be even bigger.
LA28, the organizing committee, announced on Friday that the swimming competition at the 2028 Games would be held at SoFi Stadium, the home of the Rams and Chargers, the city's two N.F.L. teams. There will be 38,000 seats for fans, double the size of typical venues used for most Olympic swimming events -- which, along with gymnastics and track and field, are one of the biggest draws for the Olympics.
"To put one of those big three Olympic sports in a spectacular venue with the capacity we could have to showcase that sport was frankly just too good an opportunity," Casey Wasserman, chairman of the organizing committee, said in an interview.
The decision to move the swimming events into the gleaming SoFi Stadium is a reflection of the economics of hosting the Olympics. Most are heavily funded by governments and inevitably incur billions in cost overruns. This year's Games, which begin in Paris at the end of July, may break even, officials have suggested.
The Los Angeles organizers are not receiving direct public money, and instead plan to fund their $ 6.9 billion budget with private sources and sponsors, duplicating the structure from the last time the city hosted the Olympics in 1984. The Games that year were also funded by private sources and ended up with a profit of about $ 250 million.
So far, securing sponsorship for the 2028 Games has proceeded slowly, with just Comcast and Delta officially signed on as top-tier sponsors.
A key for financial success could be the events themselves.
The organizers expect to generate about $ 1.2 billion in Olympic ticket revenue, with $ 56 million of it coming from the swimming events, according to projections they submitted as part of their bid to host the Games. Moving the swimming competition to SoFi Stadium from a temporary venue with a capacity of 17,500 built at the University of Southern California's baseball stadium could significantly increase the dollar amount.
"I have no doubt that it will be the biggest attended swim meet in this country's history, and maybe the most spectacular swim meet ever," Wasserman said.
The plan is not foolproof, and it has a cascading effect on a number of other sports and venues.
The competition and warm-up pools will need to be covered so that the opening ceremony can be held at SoFi Stadium. It will take days to transform the stadium back into a swimming venue, meaning those competitions cannot take place during the first week of the Olympics, when they usually occur. Instead, track and field, which will be held at Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, will take place during the first week, and swimming will be contested during the second.
In 2017, when Los Angeles was awarded to host the 2028 Olympics, SoFi Stadium was a few years away from completion, and the original plan for hosting called for the stadium to be used only for archery and the opening and closing ceremonies. Now archery will be in a new venue.
Efforts to draw larger and larger crowds to swimming events are already underway.
The U.S. qualifying trials for the Paris Olympics are being held at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, home of the Indianapolis Colts. U.S.A. Swimming, the sport's national governing body, considered bids from multiple current and former N.F.L. stadiums for the trials, which had previously been held in a 14,000-person capacity arena in Omaha, Neb., with an eye toward this year's event being a test run for what LA28 was planning behind the scenes, Wasserman said.
Tim Hinchey, the chief executive of U.S.A. Swimming, acknowledged the risk of moving the trials to a larger venue but hoped that it would pay off both through ticket sales and in growing interest and participation in the sport leading into the 2028 Olympics. None of the sessions have sold out the 30,000 available seats, but the 22,209 people who attended Wednesday night's finals was the largest crowd to ever watch a swim meet indoors, and the crowds for the morning preliminary sessions also set attendance records.
"It was kind of this energy that I hadn't felt at this kind of a meet, even an international meet, before," said Katie Ledecky, who easily won the 1,500-meter freestyle final on Wednesday. A seven-time Olympic gold-medalist, Ledecky serves on the board for LA28 and has said she hopes to compete in what would be her fifth Olympics in Los Angeles.
Los Angeles organizers were on hand in Indianapolis to learn more about hosting swimming in a football stadium. Wasserman cautioned that bigger venues might not necessarily be the default for all Olympic events in the future.
"There's a lot of great stadiums in the world," Wasserman said. "Only one city is probably capable of having a SoFi, and that's L.A."
A number of other venue changes were announced on Friday that organizers said would help generate more than $ 150 million in savings and revenue for 2028.
Basketball will move to the Intuit Dome, where the Clippers will play when it opens later this summer, from Crypto.com Arena, where the Lakers play. Gymnastics will move to the Crypto.com Arena from the Kia Forum. And diving, synchronized swimming and Paralympic swimming are all moving to other venues in Los Angeles and Long Beach.
Other sports will move outside Southern California altogether. Both the softball and canoe slalom competitions will be held in Oklahoma City, 1,300 miles to the east. The organizers cited as reasons for the move a lack of acceptable existing facilities and a commitment to building as few new facilities as possible.
Photograph SoFi Stadium, left, will offer 38,000 seats for fans, double the size of typical swimming venues. Track and field, to be held at Memorial Coliseum, above, will move to the Games' first week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KYUSUNG GONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS; GILBERT IUNDT/CORBIS/VCG, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Stadiums; Olympic games; Ticket sales; Venue; Track & field; Swimming

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; Indianapolis Indiana

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: Crypto.com; NAICS: 523160; Name: SoFi Stadium; NAICS: 711310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/21/sports/olympics/olympic-swimming-2028-la-games.html

Title: Swimming Moves to an N.F.L. Stadium for the 2028 Games in Los Angeles:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 22, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3070925985

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swimming-moves-n-f-l-stadium-2028-games-los/docview/3070925985/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Auto Deals Are Making A Comeback: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/auto-deals-are-making-comeback/docview/3063997812/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Automakers and dealers are starting to offer discounts, low-interest loans and other incentives to lure buyers as the supply of cars grows.
For much of the last four years, automakers and their dealers had so few cars to sell -- and demand was so strong -- that they could command high prices. Those days are over, and hefty discounts are starting a comeback.
During the coronavirus pandemic, auto production was slowed first by factory closings and then by a global shortage of computer chips and other parts that lasted for years.
With few vehicles in showrooms, automakers and dealers were able to scrap most sales incentives, leaving consumers to pay full price. Some dealers added thousands of dollars to the manufacturer's suggested retail price, and people started buying and flipping in-demand cars for a profit.
But with chip supplies back to healthy levels, auto production has rebounded and dealer inventories are growing. At the same time, higher interest rates have dampened demand for vehicles. As a result, many automakers are scrambling to keep sales rolling.
Wes Lutz, owner of Extreme Dodge in Jackson, Mich., said he had several Dodge Challengers and Chargers that were eligible for $ 11,000 discounts from Stellantis, the manufacturer of Dodge, Chrysler, Jeep and Ram models. The automaker is also offering discounts of up to $ 3,600 on certain versions of the Dodge Durango sport utility vehicle.
"It seems like we may be headed back toward incentives and overproduction," Mr. Lutz said. "It's not there yet, but it's getting close."
With a shrug, he added, "It may not be good for me or for the manufacturer, but it's sure good for the consumer."
Cash-back offers, subsidized loans and other incentives are important tools for selling cars. They allow automakers and dealers to offer monthly payments that are more affordable for consumers and ease the impact of high interest rates.
In the last few years, shortages and consumers' preferences for large vehicle have pushed the average purchase price of new vehicles to just under $ 47,000, and the average monthly payment to $ 735, according to Edmunds, a market researcher. The average interest rate on used car loans was 11.6 percent in April, according to Edmunds.
At those levels, many consumers can no longer afford cars without substantial incentives.
But when taken to extremes, incentives can erode automakers' profits and create a surge of sales that inevitably gives way to a painful drop. Repeated waves of discounting also condition consumers to purchase cars only when offered a deal.
Two decades ago, the industry went on an incentive binge. General Motors for a time sold cars at the heavily discounted prices it previously offered only to its employees. Extreme discounting helped weaken G.M. and Chrysler before they filed for bankruptcy in 2009 during the financial crisis.
For now, the industry has avoided that trap. At the end of May, automakers had almost 2.9 million cars and light trucks in stock, about one million more than at the same time last year, according to Cox Automotive, a market researcher. Nearly 7 percent of those vehicles were 2023 models. By comparison, there were 4.1 million vehicles in stock in 2019, according to Automotive News.
Toyota, Honda, Subaru, and G.M.'s Chevrolet and Cadillac brands have kept tight reins on their inventories and in general have not yet elevated incentives significantly.
But Ford, Lincoln, Dodge, Chrysler, Nissan, Volvo and several other brands have higher stocks -- enough to last more than 100 days at the current rate of sales. They're offering some big incentives, but mostly targeted at specific models, and sometimes specific versions of certain models.
Ford, for example, is offering $ 5,500 off its Escape S.U.V., but only on the 2023 models that remain in dealer stock. Stellantis is offering $ 4,000 cash back on the Ram pickup, but it is limited to the 1500 Classic version. Volkswagen is offering interest-free financing on the 2024 Taos small S.U.V., but not on its other models.
"So far we're not seeing the across-the-board incentives that we had in the past," said Charles Chesbrough, a senior economist at Cox Automotive.
The growing number of incentives on new vehicles has helped pull down prices of used cars and trucks. In April, used car prices declined nearly 7 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Among the most heavily discounted models at the moment are electric vehicles, sales of which have slowed in recent months. Consumers' enthusiasm for those models has ebbed, mainly over concerns about the higher prices of electric vehicles and the challenges of keeping them charged, especially on road trips.
Now automakers are offering generous incentives to entice consumers. Volkswagen is offering discounts of up to $ 18,750 on leases on the 2023 ID.4, which is still readily available in some places. That includes the $ 7,500 federal tax credit, which can be rolled into leasing deals under the Inflation Reduction Act.
Other considerable deals are available on the Chevrolet Blazer electric vehicle, the Cadillac Lyriq, the Kia EV6, the Volvo XC40 Recharge hybrid and the Ford F-150 Lightning electric pickup. Tesla, which regularly raised prices during the pandemic, has spent the last year and a half slashing them. Recently the company has been offering 0.99 percent loans on its Model Y S.U.V.
The incentives come on top of other trends that are helping reduce the price of electric vehicles, including falling manufacturing costs and rising competition.
Increased discounting is helping tempt what are known in the industry as "want buyers" -- consumers who don't need a new car but are drawn by new technologies, design or features.
"You have your 'need buyer,' whose car had died or needs a lot of expensive repairs, and they have to get a new vehicle," said Adam Silverleib, owner of a Honda and a Volkswagen dealerships outside Boston. "But a lot of those 'want buyers' went away when interest rates went up, and now incentives are bringing some of them back."
Among them is Brian Pawlowski, a digital marketing executive in Chelsea, Mich. He had been driving a 2017 Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid that had only 55,000 miles on the odometer. But he was itching to get a fully electric model.
"I'm a person who likes the environment," he said. "I could have kept the Volt, but I wanted to upgrade to newer technology."
He began looking for deals on electric cars and found a two-year lease on a Hyundai Ioniq 5 S.U.V. The deal came with a $ 13,000 discount and other terms that left him with a monthly payment of $ 369 for a vehicle with a sticker price of $ 52,000.
"When the sales guy laid it all out," Mr. Pawlowski said, "it was pretty hard to pass up."
Photograph With parts and computer chip supplies back to healthy levels after pandemic shortages, auto production has rebounded and dealer inventories are growing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRITTANY GREESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Manufacturers; Prices; Consumers; Interest rates; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Inventory; Pandemics; Trucks; Incentives; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturers Consumers Interest rates Automobile sales Inventory Incentives Automobile dealers

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/03/business/economy/new-car-deals-incentives-int erest-rates.html

Title: Auto Deals Are Making A Comeback:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 4, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3063997812

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/auto-deals-are-making-comeback/docview/3063997812/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Car Deals Vanished During the Pandemic. They’re Coming Back.

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/car-deals-vanished-during-pandemic-they-re-coming/docview/3063885497/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For much of the past four years, automakers and their dealers had so few cars to sell — and demand was so strong — that they could command high prices. Those days are over, and hefty discounts are starting a comeback.
During the coronavirus pandemic, auto production was slowed first by factory closings and then by a global shortage of computer chips and other parts that lasted for years.
With few vehicles in showrooms, automakers and dealers were able to scrap most sales incentives, leaving consumers to pay full price. Some dealers added thousands of dollars to the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, and people started buying and flipping in-demand cars for a profit.
But with chip supplies back to healthy levels, auto production has rebounded and dealer inventories are growing. At the same time, higher interest rates have dampened demand for vehicles. As a result, many automakers are scrambling to keep sales rolling.
Wes Lutz, owner of Extreme Dodge in Jackson, Michigan, said he had several Dodge Challengers and Chargers that were eligible for $11,000 discounts from Stellantis, the manufacturer of Dodge, Chrysler, Jeep and Ram models. The automaker is also offering discounts of up to $3,600 on certain versions of the Dodge Durango SUV.
“It seems like we may be headed back toward incentives and overproduction,” Lutz said. “It’s not there yet, but it’s getting close.”
With a shrug, he added, “It may not be good for me or for the manufacturer, but it’s sure good for the consumer.”
Cash-back offers, subsidized loans and other incentives are important tools for selling cars. They allow automakers and dealers to offer monthly payments that are more affordable for consumers and ease the impact of high interest rates.
In the past few years, shortages and consumers’ preferences for large vehicles have pushed the average purchase price of new vehicles to just under $47,000, and the average monthly payment to $735, according to Edmunds, a market researcher. The average interest rate on used-car loans was 11.6% in April, according to Edmunds.
At those levels, many consumers can no longer afford cars without substantial incentives.
But when taken to extremes, incentives can erode automakers’ profits and create a surge of sales that inevitably gives way to a painful drop. Repeated waves of discounting also condition consumers to purchase cars only when offered a deal.
Two decades ago, the industry went on an incentive binge. General Motors for a time sold cars at the heavily discounted prices it previously offered only to its employees. Extreme discounting helped weaken GM and Chrysler before they filed for bankruptcy in 2009 during the financial crisis.
For now, the industry has avoided that trap. At the end of May, automakers had almost 2.9 million cars and light trucks in stock, about 1 million more than at the same time last year, according to Cox Automotive, a market researcher. Nearly 7% of those vehicles were 2023 models. By comparison, there were 4.1 million vehicles in stock in 2019, according to Automotive News.
Toyota, Honda, Subaru, and GM’s Chevrolet and Cadillac brands have kept tight reins on their inventories and in general have not yet elevated incentives significantly.
But Ford, Lincoln, Dodge, Chrysler, Nissan, Volvo and several other brands have higher stocks — enough to last more than 100 days at the current rate of sales. They’re offering some big incentives, but mostly targeted at specific models, and sometimes specific versions of certain models.
Ford, for example, is offering $5,500 off its Escape SUV, but only on the 2023 models that remain in dealer stock. Stellantis is offering $4,000 cash back on the Ram pickup, but it is limited to the 1500 Classic version. Volkswagen is offering interest-free financing on the 2024 Taos small SUV, but not on its other models.
“So far, we’re not seeing the across-the-board incentives that we had in the past,” said Charles Chesbrough, a senior economist at Cox Automotive.
The growing number of incentives on new vehicles has helped pull down prices of used cars and trucks. In April, used-car prices declined nearly 7%, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Among the most heavily discounted models at the moment are electric vehicles, sales of which have slowed in recent months. Consumers’ enthusiasm for those models has ebbed, mainly over concerns about the higher prices of EVs and the challenges of keeping them charged, especially on road trips.
Now, automakers are offering generous incentives to entice consumers. Volkswagen is offering discounts of up to $18,750 on leases on the 2023 ID.4, which is still readily available in some places. That includes the $7,500 federal tax credit, which can be rolled into leasing deals under the Inflation Reduction Act.
Other considerable deals are available on the Chevrolet Blazer EV, the Cadillac Lyriq, the Kia EV6, the Volvo XC40 Recharge hybrid and the Ford F-150 Lightning electric pickup. Tesla, which regularly raised prices during the pandemic, has spent the past year and a half slashing them. Recently, the company has been offering 0.99% loans on its Model Y SUV.
The incentives come on top of other trends that are helping reduce the price of EVs, including falling manufacturing costs and rising competition.
Increased discounting is helping tempt what are known in the industry as “want buyers” — consumers who don’t need a new car but are drawn by new technologies, design or features.
“You have your ‘need buyer,’ whose car had died or needs a lot of expensive repairs, and they have to get a new vehicle,” said Adam Silverleib, owner of a Honda dealership and a Volkswagen dealership outside of Boston. “But a lot of those ‘want buyers’ went away when interest rates went up, and now incentives are bringing some of them back.”
Among them is Brian Pawlowski, a digital marketing executive in Chelsea, Michigan. He had been driving a 2017 Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid that had only 55,000 miles on the odometer. But he was itching to get a fully electric model.
“I’m a person who likes the environment,” he said. “I could have kept the Volt, but I wanted to upgrade to newer technology.”
He began looking for deals on EVs and found a two-year lease on a Hyundai Ioniq 5 SUV. The deal came with a $13,000 discount and other terms that left him with a monthly payment of $369 for a vehicle with a sticker price of $52,000.
“When the sales guy laid it all out,” Pawlowski said, “it was pretty hard to pass up.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Consumers; Pandemics; Trucks; Manufacturers; Prices; Interest rates; Automobile sales; Inventory; Vehicles; Incentives; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Manufacturers Interest rates Automobile sales Inventory Incentives Automobile dealers

Location: New York; United States--US; Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551 112; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Shortages; Tesla Motors Inc; Durango (Colo); Volkswagen Ag; Stellantis Nv; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Motivation And Incentive Programs; Used Cars; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Banking And Financial Institutions; Hyundai Motor Co; Automotive News; Bankruptcies; Dodge Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Credit And Debt; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Volvo Car Corp; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Ab Volvo; General Motors; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Nissan Motor Co; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Shopping And Retail; Michigan; Discount Selling; Toyota Motor Corp; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Subaru; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Cadillac Division Of General Motors Corp; Factories And Manufacturing; Lincoln Motor Co; Boudette, Neal E; Kia Motors Corp; Ram Division Of Chrysler Corp; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Bureau Of Labor Statistics; United States Economy

Title: Car Deals Vanished During the Pandemic. They’re Coming Back.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Ju n 3, 2024

Dateline: 2024-06-03T22:15:22Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3063885497

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/car-deals-vanished-during-pandemic-they-re-coming/docview/3063885497/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

It's True, Parking Here Is an Utter Nightmare: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Stewart, Dodai

Publication info: Stewart, Dodai. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/true-parking-here-is-utter-nightmare/docview/3060091685/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: City officials and others are reconsidering how New Yorkers store their cars.
This is Street Wars , a weekly series on the battle for space on New York's streets and sidewalks.
Nia Smith, a born-and-bred Brooklyn resident, has long Covid and drives just about everywhere, every day. Finding a spot to park is never easy. She has gotten up as early as 4 a.m. to move her car if it is double-parked, and there just aren't as many spaces in her neighborhood, Bedford-Stuyvesant, as there used to be.
Elya Shavrova lives in Ditmas Park. She got a car because she was having back problems, and she spends quite a bit of time thinking about parking. "I will plan my week and my day around when I can use my car," she said. "Thursdays and Fridays are like the worst days to find a parking spot. So I try to avoid driving on those days, if I can."
Jake Dann-Soury of Murray Hill inherited a car-centric lifestyle from his father, who drove him around when he was a kid. He describes a familiar morning routine, moving his 2022 Kia Seltos out of the way of the street cleaner and then back. "Every block has their own dance," he said.
New York City drivers, take note: If it seems like parking has turned into a nightmare, it is not your imagination.
"It has never been as intense as it is right at this moment," said Henry Grabar, author of "Paved Paradise: How Parking Explains the World," "because the car ownership rate in New York City has never been as high as it is right now."
There are approximately three million parking spaces in New York City, and 97 percent of them are free. But with so many cars in the city these days -- more than 2.2 million registered in New York and plenty more commuting in -- it's getting harder for drivers to find parking spots. And as exasperated drivers circle the block in frustration, some experts question whether New York should have any free street parking at all.
"New York City is a place where every single human being is dreaming and begging for slightly more space," said Danny Harris, the executive director of Transportation Alternatives, a nonprofit organization whose mission is to reclaim New York from cars. "And yet we squander 76 percent of our public space on the movement and storage of vehicles. And this is in a city where the minority of people own cars."
According to Grabar, the city simply hasn't caught up to the present reality. "People still have this idea that street parking should be free, because that's the way it was when they first moved here, in the '80s or '90s. And that's just not the way the city works anymore."
The idea of allowing people to park for free on public streets -- not just for an hour or two but basically full-time -- dates back to the 1950s.
"Car ownership was rising, the population was declining and the transit system seemed to be falling apart," Grabar said. Street parking was "an attractive option to the middle class," a kind of incentive to keep people from moving to the suburbs. "There was no grand strategic decision to convert all the curbs in New York to permanent car storage. I think it just sort of happened."
State legislators have proposed a modest fix: allowing the city to create a parking permit system in the city's residential neighborhoods, reserving spots for people who live nearby. And in certain neighborhoods, some New Yorkers really like the idea.
The city also intends to prohibit curbside parking close to certain intersections across New York as a way to improve safety.
But given all the demands on New York's clogged streets and sidewalks these days -- bike lanes, dining sheds, trash containerization -- people who think deeply about urban planning and public spaces believe New York is missing a huge opportunity to improve the city's overall quality of life.
In 2005, a group of urbanists and activists called Rebar orchestrated an experiment to show people what could happen if cities devoted less space to curbside parking. They decided to transform a single San Francisco curbside parking space into a small park.
"It was a guerrilla art intervention," said John Bela, a designer, one of the participants. "We didn't get permission. We just put some coins in the parking meter, set up some lawn and a tree. And then we withdrew just to see what would happen. How would you respond to this change in the environment?"
Soon, he said, one man sat down to eat lunch, another man sat under the tree and they started talking. Bela and his associates were thrilled. "We've done it," he said. "We've created a space for social interaction, whereas before it was just a metal storage location."
This experiment soon became known as Park(ing) Day, a project to temporarily convert street parking spaces into parks or other public design sites, and the idea spread to other cities and countries. Sometimes there's an arm chair and a rug. Sometimes there's an umbrella, for shade.
If you live, as most New Yorkers do, in an apartment building on a street that consistently has cars parked at the curb, it's not hard to imagine what you'd do with a green, leafy place to sit outside your building instead: Read, have coffee, meet a friend, talk to a neighbor.
Although she drives, Shavrova, who lives in Ditmas Park, likes the idea of tiny parks. "I would search longer for parking if it meant that my neighborhood could have more green space," she said.
Four ideas for the curb
What could New York City do if it devoted less space on the street to free parking for cars?
Create green space: Climate change is real, and giving up parking spaces could be part of the solution, said Henry Grabar, the author of the book on parking: "The city is suffering from heat waves and from flooding events. Each of those problems can be addressed by making our streets greener and planting lots of trees and more water-absorbent plants -- which could help absorb water before it floods people's houses. That's an ambitious idea, if we actually get to the point of ripping up some of the asphalt." The "garden streets" of Antwerp, Belgium, could serve as inspiration.
Invest in child-friendly spaces: In Paris, "school streets" are closed to through traffic and car-free, making children's safety a priority.
Consider vending and commerce: In New York, fruit carts and food carts end up on the sidewalk when they could be in a parking spot. In the Dumbo neighborhood of Brooklyn, the Pearl Street Triangle, once full of parked cars, is now a flea market location.
Think of the streets as an extension of your living space: "We have to start looking at them like they're a habitat," said Katrina Johnston-Zimmerman, an urban anthropologist and adjunct professor at Drexel University. Block parties are a great example, she said, but even a flower box or a nicely tended tree bed can invoke the extension of your home. "Put your life into the street more, take ownership over that space and invite other people to participate in it."
Enjoying our Street Wars series? Tell us what you like or how we could improve: streetwars@nytimes.com
What happens when the police can't find parking?
Many New Yorkers, especially those with disabilities, have been frustrated by police cars parked on sidewalks and crosswalks near precincts, blocking their ability to safely get where they're going.
Federal prosecutors recently opened an investigation into the Police Department's parking practices and found violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
While both the A.D.A. and local law prohibit parking on public sidewalks and crosswalks in a way that impairs accessibility, the federal investigation found that the Police Department vehicles "frequently obstruct sidewalks and crosswalks in the vicinity of the N.Y.P.D. precincts" and that they have been permitted to stay there "beyond a reasonable period of time."
Police cars obstruct other areas of the city, too.
People with disabilities have reported having to navigate the streets and risk injury in areas where sidewalks were blocked by police vehicles, according to the investigation. Some made 311 complaints or complained at community board meetings but said the situation didn't improve or had actually worsened.
A spokesman for the Police Department said officials were reviewing the letter.
The city police officers' union said that officers simply don't have enough places to park. "The burden and blame for the city's inadequate parking facilities cannot be passed off to the police officers who need to use these vehicles to do our job," said Patrick Hendry, the president of the union, the Police Benevolent Association of the City of New York.
But a lack of options is not a satisfactory answer, said Dr. Sharon McLennon Wier, the executive director of the Center for Independence of the Disabled.
"It's not just a nuisance or a burden -- they are breaking the law," she said. If the situation doesn't improve, she added, disability rights groups may take legal action.
"The sidewalk is already crowded with other things, with branches, with bike stands," Dr. McLennon Wier said. "To have N.Y.P.D. vehicles on the actual sidewalk is even further challenging."
Federal officials made a handful of recommendations as a result of the investigation, including that the department create a parking policy that ensures accessibility around precincts and provide quarterly reports identifying complaints and how the Police Department resolved each one.
Parking machines of yesteryear
In the 1930s, cars became incredibly popular in cities. But cities had issues figuring out how, and where, to store them. A 1932 article in The New York Times stated that New York "has yet to solve the problem of the parked motor vehicle." The "first automatic parking machine" was erected in Chicago in February 1932. A kind of cross between an elevator and a Ferris wheel, it held 48 cars and took 55 seconds to deliver a car from the highest point down to its owner on the ground.
Photograph Top, curb-parked cars add to congestion. Above, an experiment in finding new uses for curbside spaces in San Francisco became a movement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LEON EDLER; REBAR GROUP) This article appeared in print on page MB6.

Subject: Police departments; Parks & recreation areas; Walkways; Neighborhoods; Americans with Disabilities Act 1990-US

Business indexing term: Subject: Americans with Disabilities Act 1990-US

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/20/nyregion/new-york-curbside-parking.html

Title: It's True, Parking Here Is an Utter Nightmare:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 26, 2024

column: Street Wars

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3060091685

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/true-parking-here-is-utter-nightmare/docview/3060091685/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Alta, Feminist Poet With an Indie Press At Home, Dies at 81: [Biography]

Author: Green, Penelope

Publication info: Green, Penelope. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alta-feminist-poet-with-indie-press-at-home-dies/docview/3056982528/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: She wrote lusty work about her life. She also started what may have been America's first feminist press, Shameless Hussy, in her garage.
Shameless Hussy Press was a shoestring operation in 1969 when the poet known as Alta began publishing books from her house on a hand-cranked offset printer. She was having trouble getting her own brash and sensuous free-form poetry published by the mainstream companies, as were her friends, and when she learned how simple offset printing was, she decided to do it herself.
Few bookstores were willing to carry Shameless Hussy's publications, not just because of the content -- there was not, at first, an appetite for such bold feminist writing -- but also because of the format: spineless, stapled chapbooks, like zines. (Many of its titles are now collector's items.)
Still, Shameless Hussy -- the name was a phrase Alta's mother used for women she didn't approve of -- would go on to publish works by some of the most notable feminist writers of the era, including the Black lesbian poet and activist Pat Parker and Mitsuye Yamada, whose pieces about her childhood in a Japanese internment camp, "Camp Notes and Other Poems," were first published by Shameless Hussy in 1976.
Alta, who founded what is believed to be the country's first feminist press -- and who went by her first name only, so as not to be associated with the surnames of her father or husbands -- died on March 10 at home in Oakland, Calif. She was 81.
Her daughter Kia Simon said the cause was breast cancer.
Alta published Ntozake Shange's landmark poem, "For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf." Ms. Shange had conceived the piece as what she called a choreopoem -- a mix of dance, music and the spoken word -- weaving together the voices of women who have endured sexism, racism, rape and more. Originally performed in bars and coffeehouses, it went on to fame as a play, first at the Public Theater in Manhattan and then on Broadway.
Alta recalled being bowled over by "For Colored Girls" when Ms. Shange sent it to her. "I was just stunned," she said in an oral history conducted for the University of California Santa Cruz. "I just kept reading it and reading it."
Much of second-wave feminism, like the leftist movement that preceded it, ran on print, and poetry was the perfect medium.
"It's like music," said the poet, playwright and essayist Susan Griffin, whose collection of poems, "Dear Sky," and book of short stories, "The Sink," were published by Shameless Hussy Press. "It expresses things you haven't quite integrated into your rational mind. It's the cutting edge of social change. Things would come out in poetry that later could be articulated in policy or ideas."
Shameless Hussy's debut was inauspicious: a collection of 10 poems by women that Alta scrounged together and called "Remember Our Fire." She held a celebratory reading, but, she recalled, the contributors refused to attend. Julia Vinograd, a street poet known for her habit of blowing bubbles at People's Park in Berkeley, complained that it was just a bunch of women reading. Diane di Prima, the Beat poet, seemingly confused about the mission of feminism, said, "Oh, you just want to make women go work in factories." (Alta recalled telling her, "No one wants to work in factories, what are you talking about?")
"To say that there was a supportive women's writing community in 1969 is not quite accurate," Alta said.
But it grew. There were readings when as many as 1,000 people showed up, and the poets, Alta included, were treated like rock stars. She schlepped that first anthology, all 250 copies, along with a book of her own work, to the local bookstores, but only two welcomed it -- one was Cody's Books, a beloved Berkeley institution on Telegraph Avenue -- where they sold out in six months. Women began sending Alta their writing, digging in their drawers, as she put it.
By 1974, Alta was setting up at a card table at the annual American Booksellers Association conference with the other indie presses, where she joked that they got traffic because they were next to the bathroom.
By 1977, The New York Times reported, there were some 82 feminist presses throughout the United States and Canada. That same year, the proprietor of the Drama Book Shop in Manhattan's theater district said he tracked down Shameless Hussy Press to order "For Colored Girls" because customers were clamoring for it. The books arrived packed in soap cartons, soap flakes clinging to the covers, he told The Times, and "a hand‐lettered invoice followed, stating 'YOU OWE US' in bold letters."
Alta's own work was salty and direct. "In the Spring of My 35th year, Oakland, 1977," reads, in part:
Any day now, maybe any year now, let's not be hasty,
Maturity will come and I will stop lusting.
Or lust, rather, after things of the spirit, after insight and vision(s).
I will see beyond the smooth arms of sun tanned men and the soft breasts of women bending over roses.
I will see their auras, and our energy fields will touch, and I won't get VD anymore.
I have taught myself to look away from the young fellas, their eager cocks just waiting to snap out as I reach out.
I no longer look at them, no longer stare at their thighs in their jeans.
But it's backfired somehow, now I see bald heads as a good sign.
Those guys have a lot of hormones to work with,
and chubby tummies
are a sure sign of lusty appetites, oh jeez
"She was very much like her poetry," Ms. Griffin said. "Honest, playful, outrageous. She loved breaking the rules. She was like a female Charles Bukowski, and like Bukowski, she took great pleasure crossing lines."
Alta Gerrey was born on May 22, 1942, in Reno, Nev. Her parents, Alta (Pettycrew) Gerrey and William Gerrey, ran a piano store out of the family home. Alta learned to play piano from a young age, which helped to move the goods.
"It was a great selling device to have this little girl sit down and peel off some nice music," she said.
Her father and her brother, Bill, were both blind; when Alta was 12, the family moved to Castro Valley, Calif., in the Bay Area, so that her brother could attend a school for the blind. Alta studied at the University of California, Berkeley, before dropping out to volunteer as a teacher in the Black communities of Prince Edward County, Va., about 70 miles west of Richmond, where schools had been closed in a rebuke to integration efforts. She returned to Berkeley not long after.
After Alta's marriage to Danny Bosserman, an aspiring actor, ended in divorce in the late 1960s, she lived for a time with the poet John Oliver Simon. She married Daniel Skarry, a classical guitarist who worked in a gas station and helped with Shameless Hussy's distribution, in the early 1970s; they divorced a decade later. In addition to her daughter Kia, she is survived by another daughter, Lorelei Bosserman, and a granddaughter.
Before it closed in 1989, Shameless Hussy published some 50 titles, including the 19th-century French novelist George Sand's "The Haunted Pool," which had been out of print; Calamity Jane's letters to her daughter; and three volumes of Alta's own poetry. By the mid-1970s, Shameless Hussy's printing press had moved out of Alta's garage, and the books were being printed, now with spines, by a company in the Midwest.
From 2006 to 2008, Alta ran her own gallery in Berkeley, showcasing works by local artists.
"My own poetry was only shocking because it hadn't been said a million times," she said in the oral history. "Now it's been said a million times. If you read my poems now, they'd say, 'What's the big deal?"'
Photograph Alta in 2010. Susan Griffin, whose writing she published, described her as someone who "took great pleasure crossing lines." (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIA SIMON); The poet Alta with a printing press in the garage of her home in San Lorenzo, Calif., in 1972. A few years earlier she had created Shameless Hussy Press, considered the first feminist press in the U.S. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL STEINBRINK, VIA GERREY FAMILY); "Remember Our Fire #3: Poetry by Women (and 3 Men)" was published in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAMELESS HUSSY PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B10.

Subject: Bookstores; Girls; Feminism; Oral history; Poetry; Offset printing; Writing; Poets; Books; Printing machinery; Reading; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Bookstores

Location: California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/17/books/alta-dead.html

Title: Alta, Feminist Poet With an Indie Press At Home, Dies at 81:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 21, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 3056982528

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alta-feminist-poet-with-indie-press-at-home-dies/docview/3056982528/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

More Guns and Looser Laws Ravage Ohio City: [National Desk]

Author: Dewan, Shaila; Gebeloff, Robert; Jarrus, Sylvia

Publication info: Dewan, Shaila; Gebeloff, Robert; Jarrus, Sylvia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/more-guns-looser-laws-ravage-ohio-city/docview/3056982512/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The sequence of events that led to the killing of Jason Keys was so confounding that friends and family did not quite believe it until they saw the video evidence played in court.
Mr. Keys and his wife, Charae Williams Keys, were getting into their car after a Father's Day visit in 2021 with her grandparents in a leafy neighborhood near Walnut Hill Park in Columbus, Ohio. A 72-year-old neighbor carrying a rifle accosted them in the belief, he later told the police, that Mr. Keys had let the air out of his daughter's tires and poisoned his lawn.
Mr. Keys, who was carrying a pistol in his waistband, and his father-in-law tried to disarm the man, knocking him to the ground, while another relative ran back inside to get a .22 rifle. While Ms. Keys ducked behind the car to call 911, she heard multiple gunshots. She emerged to find her husband mortally wounded.
It took a moment for everyone to realize that the shots had come from a fourth gun across the street. Elias Smith, a 24-year-old ex-Marine, had stepped to his front door with a so-called ghost gun, an AR-style rifle that Mr. Smith had assembled from parts ordered online. Within seconds, he opened fire, hitting Mr. Keys five times.
"What are you shooting for?" a relative of Mr. Keys can be heard asking on surveillance video that captured parts of the incident.
Mr. Smith answered, "I don't know."
It was an encounter emblematic of gun violence in America today, a dispute that might not have turned deadly but for firearms in increasingly easy reach. And it was an episode that exemplified a striking spread in fatal shootings nationwide since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020 -- a period in which Americans have purchased more guns, the Supreme Court has made them harder to regulate, and many states, including Ohio, have loosened restrictions on firearms.
The block, on the far east side of Columbus, had been a haven, with little if any gun violence. That kind of peace was what had drawn Ms. Keys's grandparents to the area decades earlier, luring them from the center of the city to what promised to be a safer place to raise their family.
And then, nearly 30 years after they had settled into a ranch house on Walnut Hill Park Drive, a burst of gunfire would take the life of Mr. Keys and with it, the neighborhood's sense of security.
A New York Times analysis of fatal shootings across the country found that as the toll of gun violence rose during the pandemic, the carnage expanded its boundaries as well. Though gun violence remains highly concentrated, more than 47 million Americans lived within a five-minute walk of a fatal shooting between 2020 and 2023, up from 39 million over the prior four-year period. In Columbus, 41 percent of residents lived within a quarter mile of a fatal shooting, compared to 28 percent before the pandemic.
The same spread of gun violence seen in Columbus took place in other cities large and small. In Atlanta, 58 percent of residents lived near a fatal shooting during the pandemic years, up from 36 percent in the four years before 2020. In Minneapolis, half of its residents were exposed, up from a third. In Portland, Ore., it was nearly a quarter-million residents, up from 100,000.
Every day, across the country, there are dozens of deadly shootings that mostly do not rise to the level of national news, but still rend the fabric of a family, a block, a neighborhood and, in the aggregate, American life.
Anthony Pierson, a veteran prosecutor in Columbus, said that before Covid-19, he knew which neighborhoods to avoid. "Now it feels like really, no neighborhood is safe."
Columbus has seen shootings at public parks and graduation parties, a children's clothing shop, a Dairy Queen, a dollar store and an upscale nightlife district called the Short North. At a water gun fight celebrating the start of summer, some people brought out real guns, killing a 17-year-old girl with a college scholarship. In 2021, the number of killings spiked to 207, unfathomable in a city where most years saw closer to 100. Last year, there were 149.
In Columbus, as elsewhere, the carnage has been marked by the involvement of conspicuously young people. Last June, two Columbus boys, 14 and 16, were charged in the shooting death of a girl in eighth grade. In August, a 13-year-old was arrested after a 15-year-old football player was killed near a Lululemon store at a popular shopping plaza.
Columbus, a city considered so typically American that fast-food chains use it as a test market, is far from alone in its troubles. In New Mexico last September, Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham declared a state of emergency for Albuquerque after shootings claimed the lives of an 11-year-old, a 5-year-old and a woman who confronted a group of teenagers in her stolen car. Louisville, Ky., calculated that gun homicides were costing the city $ 104 million a year in law enforcement, medical care and lost tax revenue.
Even though the tide of shootings and killings that washed across the country with the pandemic began to ebb last year, the improvement was uneven. Columbus closed out 2023 with more homicides than the year before -- as did Dallas, Topeka, Kan., Memphis and Washington.
There is optimism that 2024 is going to be better in Columbus, which has seen homicide numbers fall dramatically so far this year, with 36 as of last week, compared with 70 in the same period the year before. Gun violence nationwide is still higher than it was before the pandemic: The number of fatal shootings in the first quarter of 2024 was 13 percent higher than it was in the same period in 2019, according to the Gun Violence Archive.
In 2022, Mayor Andrew Ginther declared gun violence a public health crisis, placing it on a par with Covid-19. Covid is no longer an emergency, but it exposed large societal rifts and left psychological scars. Gun violence may follow the same path: Even as it recedes, neighborhoods like the one near Walnut Hill Park may never feel as secure as they once did.
Some criminologists say there is no reason to think that homicides cannot fall back to the relatively low levels seen in the 20 years before the pandemic -- except perhaps that there are far more guns and far fewer limits on them.
Adonis, a 14-year-old in Columbus whose life was upended by the pandemic, is skeptical. "The government, or whatever, already let too many guns go around the whole entire city," he said. "They should have been stopping this when they had the chance to. I feel like it's too late now."
***
For more than a decade, the Ohio legislature had been scaling back gun regulations. In 2006, lawmakers pre-empted cities from passing their own gun statutes. In 2014, they rescinded a ban on high-capacity magazines.
Then, in 2019, a gunman in Dayton used one to fire 41 rounds in under 30 seconds, killing nine people and wounding 17.
The outcry that followed prompted Gov. Mike DeWine, a Republican, to promise changes that included expanded background checks and a "red flag" law allowing for the temporary removal of guns from people deemed dangerous to themselves or others. The proposals went nowhere.
Instead, in 2020 the state enacted a "stand your ground" law supported by gun rights organizations, expanding established limits on when a shooting can be deemed self-defense.
In 2022, Ohio lawmakers allowed school boards to arm teachers who completed 24 hours of training, eliminated permit and training requirements for concealed weapons, and barred cities from prohibiting gun sales during riots.
Proponents of expansive gun rights argue that increased regulation only makes it harder for lawful buyers to obtain guns for legitimate reasons, and that criminals will always find ways to skirt stricter laws.
In Ohio, Republican supporters of the permit-less carry bill said that there was little difference between openly carrying a gun, which Ohioans are permitted to do, and concealing that same weapon.
"Killers, rapists, kidnappers and other violent criminals don't obey this law anyway," said state Representatives Tom Brinkman and Kris Jordan, the bill's sponsors, in their written testimony.
Facing a mounting body count in 2021 and 2022, Columbus tried to test the state ban on local lawmaking. The city enacted legislation requiring guns to be safely stored around children and banning high-capacity magazines. But the measures were stalled by court challenges, one by the state attorney general, a Republican, and the other by private citizens. Columbus, in turn, has challenged the 2023 state law that prohibits cities from halting the sale of guns and ammunition during riots.
"I feel like at times we have one or two arms tied behind our back trying to fight gun violence," said Mayor Ginther, a Democrat who just began his third term. "And it can be very frustrating because the people are angry. They want more to be done."
Guns have become a feature of life for Adonis and his friend Jason, who are both in eighth grade. "We see them every single day," Adonis said. "But at this point, it don't even faze us."
Adonis and Jason described how their life had changed dramatically since the onset of the pandemic. "When we were younger it was like, you can walk out and do anything, like it's fun outside," Jason said. "Now you walk out, you got to be worried about getting shot."
Both boys, whom The Times is identifying only by their first names, had agreed to an interview to talk about their friend Tauron Durham, a music-loving, witty 13-year-old who had been fatally shot in December. But the conversation ranged widely, hinting at some of the reasons violence has spread among young people.
The boys said that boredom and lack of supervision during the pandemic had given rise to a wave of Kia Boys, or children as young as 10 or 11 who learned to steal Kias and Hyundais by watching how-to videos. Stolen cars gave youths, even those well below legal driving age, the means to travel beyond their own neighborhoods. In Columbus, auto thefts more than doubled between 2019 and 2023, and stolen cars have been involved in a host of dangerous incidents, including high-speed chases and drive-by shootings.
Cars also became a focus for break-ins, with thieves increasingly finding handguns among their spoils. Between 2017 and 2021, the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms says, more than a million guns were reported stolen from private individuals nationally. Stolen guns in Columbus might be had for as little as $ 50, according to law enforcement officials.
"Before, you could knock on the door of your neighbor and get some weed," said Jené Patrick, a member of Mothers of Murdered Columbus Children, an anti-violence group. "That's how you get guns now. It's that easy."
Though Jason and Adonis said they were spending less time on the streets, their Instagram feeds are still full of images of children posing with handguns, as well as R.I.P. posts for gun victims. One of the boys' handles includes the initials "F.T.O.," a profane swipe at their "opps," or rivals.
Back-and-forth dissing on social media is common but dangerous, sometimes leading to retaliation in real life. Because of that threat, Jason and Adonis explained, people carry guns to protect themselves. "And," Jason added, "just to show off."
Social media, of course, knows no geographic boundaries, and people who are miles apart can feud while unwittingly posting clues to their whereabouts.
"Almost any case I have that's a murder, aggravated robbery, felonious assault with a shooting, when we get the phone dumps there's stuff with them posing with guns or threatening to do harm to people. It's a constant," said Euripides Chimbidis, a prosecutor who handles juvenile cases in Columbus. "In my view, they're putting themselves at risk, making other kids want to come after them."
***
As gun violence intensified and spread in Columbus, communities long plagued by violence got far worse. Tre'Von Dickson, 15 and living on the east side of the city near the Barnett Recreation Center, personally knew almost two dozen people who had been killed, according to his mother, Shawna Brady.
Tre'Von was home on April 20, 2021, when, after a day of virtual classes, he arranged by text to have marijuana delivered to the apartment.
When a minivan pulled up outside with the pot, Tre'Von ventured out to collect it. Within seconds the driver, another 15-year-old, shot at him, a witness told the police. Tre'Von pulled out a revolver and returned fire, the witness said. The other teen was hit in the leg, while Tre'Von was hit twice in the chest, bleeding to death while his cousin rushed him to a hospital.
The other teen, who pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter in juvenile court, has maintained, through his lawyer, that he acted in self-defense. Ms. Brady insists her son could not have been the aggressor. But Ms. Brady, who cares for mental health patients, admits that she knew that Tre'Von had a gun. "I work a lot -- I work around the clock, and he was my protector," she said. "He protected the house."
If she had it to do over, she said, she would not have allowed it.
"We see this all the time," said Malissa Thomas-St.Clair, a middle-school teacher who, in August 2020, learned that one of her former students, a 14-year-old, had shot and killed his 2-year-old nephew while playing with a revolver. With an anguished post on Facebook, she founded the Mothers of Murdered Columbus Children.
The organization has made parental accountability a key part of its message, Ms. Thomas-St.Clair said, in part because the attitude that the "man" of the family should be armed, even if he is still a child, is not uncommon.
"Every one of us has a story of if there was better accountability within our parenting, then maybe some decisions of our children would have been different," she said. Ms. Thomas-St.Clair's own adult son was fatally stabbed in 2013, while trying to collect on a drug debt.
In their matching camo outfits, members of the Mothers of Murdered Columbus Children have become visible supporters of the city's efforts to combat gun violence. Columbus has tried a host of strategies, including gun buybacks, youth programs, increased funding for domestic violence shelters and more detectives devoted to shootings.
The sharp decline in homicides this year is an encouraging sign, but officials say they are up against a tidal wave of guns.
In 2020, there were 11.3 million guns manufactured in the United States for domestic consumption, more than twice the number produced in 2010, according to the A.T.F. There are also signs that more guns are vanishing from the legal market.
Between 2017 and 2021, the percentage of guns recovered from crimes that had been purchased within the previous year steadily increased, according to A.T.F. data. A short "time to crime" can indicate an illegal straw purchase intended to evade background checks, minimum age laws and other safeguards.
***
Walnut Hill Park Drive still has its broad front lawns, backyard play forts and late-model pickups parked in circular drives. But much has changed on the block since Father's Day in 2021.
Ms. Keys's grandparents, Verna and Cordell Williams, caught Covid-19 and died three months after their grandson-in-law was killed.
Elias Smith, the former Marine who shot Mr. Keys, no longer lives in his mother's basement -- he is serving 15 years to life for murder. His trial included evidence that he had both P.T.S.D. and a traumatic brain injury.
Robert Thomas, the neighbor who instigated the episode with his rifle, was acquitted of an involuntary manslaughter charge but convicted of aggravated menacing. He was placed on house arrest at his daughter's home and ordered to stay away from the block.
Ms. Keys, who was wounded by shrapnel in the shooting that killed her husband, is still recovering both physically and mentally. She and her husband had both known victims of gun violence. That was one reason they lived in a high-security apartment complex, went to work, went to church and tried to "stay out of the way," she said. It was not enough.
"Now we have people walking around who are just ticking time bombs," Ms. Keys said. "I've done everything in my power to keep me from violence, but it's chasing me." A CONVENIENCE STORE: The Stelzer Market on the northeast side of Columbus where Tauron Durham, 13, was shot and killed in December.; A MALL: Ra'Shawyn A. Carter, 15, was shot and killed on Aug. 27, 2023, in front of a Jeni's Ice Cream store at the Easton Mall. Two 13-year-olds were arrested. (A10); Above, from left: Charae Williams Keys wears her late husband's wedding ring on a necklace; Shawna Brady holding a photo of her son Tre'Von Dickson, who was 15 when he was fatally shot outside their apartment in April 2021; Malissa Thomas-St.Clair, founder of Mothers of Murdered Columbus Children in Columbus, Ohio. (A10-A11); In Columbus, Ohio, 41 percent of residents lived within a quarter-mile of a fatal shooting between 2020 and 2023, compared with 28 percent before the pandemic. Shawnta Willis, a member of the Mothers of Murdered Columbus Children, above, lost her 19-year-old son last April; A DOLLAR STORE: Jarrin Hickman, 28, was shot and killed on April 17, 2020, in a Dollar General parking lot on the southeast side of the city. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SYLVIA JARRUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10, A11.

Subject: Gun violence; Riots; Firearm laws & regulations; COVID-19

Location: United States--US; Ohio

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/20/us/gun-violence-shootings-columbus-ohio.html

Title: More Guns and Looser Laws Ravage Ohio City:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 21, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3056982512

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/more-guns-looser-laws-ravage-ohio-city/docview/3056982512/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Data Collection by Cars Is Drawing Scrutiny From U.S. Regulators: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/data-collection-cars-is-drawing-scrutiny-u-s/docview/3049098457/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Modern cars are internet-connected and have hundreds of sensors. Lawmakers and regulators have concerns about what's happening with all that data.
In the American imagination, car keys and a driver's license have long represented freedom, autonomy and privacy. But modern cars, which have hundreds of sensors, cameras and internet connectivity, are now potential spying machines acting in ways drivers do not completely understand.
That has lawmakers and regulators concerned.
On Tuesday, Senators Ron Wyden of Oregon and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts sent a letter to Lina Khan, chair of the Federal Trade Commission, urging the agency to investigate automakers for sharing drivers' location information with the police. The senators, both Democrats, say this sharing can "seriously threaten Americans' privacy" by revealing their visits to protests, health clinics, places of worship, support groups or other sensitive places.
"As far-right politicians escalate their war on women, I'm especially concerned about cars revealing people who cross state lines to obtain an abortion," Senator Wyden said in a statement.
Government attention to the car industry is intensifying, experts say, because of the increased technological sophistication of modern cars.
Investigators for the Government Accountability Office recently went car shopping, undercover, to see whether salespeople were overselling autonomous driving abilities. In a March report, the agency concluded that consumers don't fully understand crash avoidance technologies and driver support systems, the improper use of which "can compromise their safety benefits and even pose a risk on the road."
The Federal Communications Commission and California lawmakers want to prevent mobile car apps from being used for stalking and harassment. The F.C.C. has proposed regulating automakers under the Safe Connections Act -- aimed, originally, at phone carriers -- while California is likely to pass a law that would accomplish the same thing, requiring car companies to cut off abusers' remote access to victims' cars.
"No survivor of domestic violence and abuse should have to choose between giving up their car and allowing themselves to be stalked and harmed by those who can access its connectivity and data," Jessica Rosenworcel, who leads the F.C.C., said in a statement.
Privacy regulators have opened investigations. California's privacy regulator has been looking into data use from connected cars for nearly a year, while the F.T.C. already appears to be acting on a letter Senator Markey sent in February, urging the agency to investigate automakers' privacy practices.
Last month, the F.T.C. solicited reports from drivers who objected to how data from their cars had been used. An investigator from the agency reached out to a man named in a New York Times article whose insurance premium increased after General Motors provided data about his driving behavior to the insurance industry. ("Since FTC investigations are nonpublic, we generally don't comment on whether we are investigating a particular matter," said a spokesperson for the agency.)
"To my mind, there has been far too little oversight into automakers' privacy policies, so the more watchdogs, the better," Senator Wyden said.
The most recent letter to the F.T.C. reveals the findings of a yearlong query of 14 automakers that Senator Wyden's office said had jointly received more than 1,400 police requests for location information over the past two years.
Only five of the automakers -- G.M., Honda, Ford, Tesla and Stellantis -- required the police to get a warrant before turning over a car's current or historical whereabouts, with Ford recently enacting that requirement. Tesla is the only automaker that tells customers about such requests, according to the letter.
"In contrast, Toyota, Nissan, Subaru, Volkswagen, BMW, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz and Kia all confirmed that they will disclose location data to U.S. government agencies in response to subpoenas, which do not require a judge's approval," the senators wrote to Ms. Khan. They said this violated a commitment the automakers made in a set of privacy principles they submitted to the F.T.C. a decade ago about how they would protect drivers' sensitive data.
"This is a complex issue; automakers are committed to protecting sensitive vehicle location information," said Brian Weiss, a spokesman for the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, a trade association. "Vehicle location information is only provided to law enforcement under specific and limited circumstances, such as when the automaker is provided a warrant or court order or in situations where there is an imminent threat of serious bodily harm or death to an individual."
Automakers generally retain a car's location information for years -- as long as 15 years in the case of Hyundai. Of the 45 location data requests that Hyundai received in the past two years from the police, slightly more than half involved stolen vehicles, the company's spokesman, Ira Gabriel, said.
"There's a renewed focus on cars, and the data practices associated with them," said Andrew Crawford, policy counsel at the Center for Democracy and Technology. He attributed this to increased consumer awareness about the components in modern cars and the fact that car data "may be going to folks that they did not contemplate, did not know about and did not want."
At the same time, however, some regulators are pushing automakers to put more technology into cars to improve safety on the roads, which may require even more data collection.
The National Transportation Safety Board has recommended in-car systems in all new vehicles that would tell drivers to slow down when they exceed the speed limit. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has taken steps to require impairment-detection systems in all new vehicles that would prevent a car from operating when the driver had been drinking or using drugs.
When it comes to car safety, the conversation has changed from improving seatbelts to installing more cameras and sensors, said Adonne Washington, a lawyer at the Future of Privacy Forum who wrote a recent report on the privacy implications of proposed safety systems.
For instance, "a mandate for alcohol detection technology in vehicles creates a whole different category of information," she said.
W. James Denvil, a partner at Hogan Lovells who has represented automakers, said the increased scrutiny from regulators was expected.
Vehicles offer "extraordinary benefits," he said. New technologies can enhance safety and the driving experience, while data from cars can be used to improve transportation infrastructure.
"We've got innovative technologies and old regulations," Mr. Denvil said. "There's going to be some surprises and some bumps in the road."
Photograph Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon sent a letter of concern to the F.T.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL A. MCCOY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Government attention to the car industry is intensifying, experts say, because of the increased technological sophistication of modern cars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KONRADI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Investigations; Legislators; Sensors; Automobile safety; Data collection; Automobile industry; Privacy; Vehicles; Insurance industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Insurance industry

Location: United States--US; California; Oregon

People: Wyden, Ron

Company / organization: Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/30/technology/regulators-investigate-carmakers-driver-tracking.html

Title: Data Collection by Cars Is Drawing Scrutiny From U.S. Regulators:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 1, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3049098457

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/data-collection-cars-is-drawing-scrutiny-u-s/docview/3049098457/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tesla Plans To Lay Off Over 10% Of Workers: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-plans-lay-off-over-10-workers/docview/3039044225/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Along with the departure of two senior executives, the cuts added to signs of turmoil at the electric car company.
Signs of turmoil at Tesla multiplied on Monday after the electric car company told employees it would lay off more than 10 percent of the work force to cut costs and two senior executives resigned.
The job cuts, amounting to about 14,000 people, come as the company faces increasing competition and declining sales. The management changes and layoffs are a reminder of the unpredictability of Elon Musk, Tesla's chief executive, at a critical time for the company.
Mr. Musk has not outlined a plan to reverse a decline in car sales, and he appears focused on long-shot ventures such as a self-driving taxi, rather than new models that would help Tesla compete with cars being introduced by established carmakers and new rivals from China.
"As we prepare the company for the next phase of growth, it is extremely important to look at every aspect of the company for cost reductions and increasing productivity," Mr. Musk told employees in a Monday morning email, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times.
"There is nothing I hate more, but it must be done," he wrote.
Hours after that email, Drew Baglino, a senior vice president who has played a big role in the company's rise from start-up to dominant electric car maker, said he had resigned.
"I made the difficult decision to move on from Tesla after 18 years yesterday," Mr. Baglino said in a post on X, the social media site. Mr. Baglino is one of only three managers besides Mr. Musk listed as a top executive on the company's website. His longevity was unusual at a company known for high management turnover.
Mr. Baglino may have been blamed for some of Tesla's recent troubles, said Gary Black, managing partner of the Future Fund, an investment firm. "Someone has to take the fall for the sharp deceleration in deliveries growth, near record inventories, and declining margins and it wasn't going to be Elon," Mr. Black said on X.
Tesla also appeared to be losing an executive key to winning regulatory approval for self-driving technology. Rohan Patel, a former aide to President Barack Obama who was Tesla's head of policy and business development, tacitly confirmed reports that he was leaving. In a post on X, Mr. Patel thanked his co-workers and Mr. Musk for "the past eight years at Tesla."
"My plans are to be a recess monitor for my second grade daughter, practice my violin, go to a bunch of bucket list sporting events and take my very patient wife on some long intended travel," Mr. Patel said.
Investors often welcome job cuts because they can lead to higher profits. But that was not the case Monday, with Tesla shares ending the day down more than 5 percent.
Tesla regularly culls its work force to remove employees whose performance managers consider weak, but the numbers are typically smaller. "This is something Elon and Tesla have consistently done throughout his career," said Scott Acheychek, chief executive of REX Shares, which offers funds investors use to bet on or against Tesla's stock. "Ten percent is pretty big," Mr. Acheychek added.
Mr. Musk's email to employees was earlier reported by Electrek, an online news site, and Handelsblatt, a German business newspaper.
Mr. Musk did not indicate where the cuts would be made. Many of Tesla's workers are based at four large car factories in Fremont, Calif., Austin, Texas, and Shanghai and near Berlin. Tesla also has a factory in Buffalo that produces charging equipment and a factory near Reno, Nev., that makes batteries.
The layoffs may help the United Automobile Workers union's efforts to organize Tesla employees in the United States. The company's workers may be more open to the union if they believe that representation would give them greater job security. Workers at a Volkswagen factory in Tennessee will vote this week on joining the U.A.W., and Mercedes-Benz workers in Alabama will vote next month.
Mr. Musk's many other ventures, and his penchant for making polarizing political statements, have raised questions about his focus on managing Tesla. Wall Street is increasingly concerned about the company: Tesla's share price has lost about one-third of its value this year.
Many investors had expressed hope that Tesla would revive flagging sales by introducing a car that would sell for about $ 25,000 as early as next year, increasing the number of people who could afford the company's cars and responding to competition from Chinese companies that are already selling electric cars for as little as half that price tag.
Mr. Musk cast doubt on those plans by announcing this month that Tesla would unveil a Robotaxi in August. The self-driving taxi is seen as a long shot, in part because even the most advanced systems available today sometimes make glaring mistakes. In addition, federal and state regulators will have to sign off before Tesla can put such taxis on the road.
This month, Tesla reported a decline in sales that caught investors off guard. The company said it delivered 387,000 cars worldwide in the first quarter, down 8.5 percent from the year before. It was the first time Tesla's quarterly sales had fallen on a year over year basis since the start of the pandemic in 2020.
The company slashed prices significantly over the course of 2023 to increase demand, which has reduced the profit Tesla makes on each car. Last week, Tesla reduced the price of its most advanced driver-assistance software to $ 99 a month from $ 199. But price cuts appear to be losing their effectiveness. Tesla will announce its financial results for the first quarter on April 23.
Rivals like BYD of China, BMW of Germany, and Kia and Hyundai Motor of South Korea reported increases in electric vehicle sales for the same period, suggesting that slower overall demand for battery-powered models was not the only explanation for Tesla's problems.
Established companies are closing the gap with Tesla on battery technology, and have been building new assembly lines to achieve the cost savings made possible by mass production. Honda plans to begin producing electric vehicles at a factory in Marysville, Ohio, next year.
Hyundai will begin producing electric cars at a new factory in Georgia in October, José Muñoz, the president and global chief operating officer of Hyundai Motor, said in an interview last month. Hyundai will also begin allowing customers to buy cars on Amazon, an answer to Tesla's practice of selling cars online.
Mr. Muñoz said that customers had been willing to pay more for Hyundai electric cars than they would for comparable Teslas. "At the beginning, Tesla was premium," he said. "Now we're premium."
Jason Karaian and Melissa Eddy contributed reporting.
Jason Karaian and Melissa Eddy contributed reporting.
Photograph Tesla reported a decline in sales this month that caught investors off guard. Two senior executives also resigned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Investments; Regulatory approval; Employees; Electric vehicles; Executives; Price cuts; Resignations; Cost control; Layoffs; Competition; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Regulatory approval Employees Executives Price cuts Resignations Cost control Layoffs Factories

Location: China

Company / organization: Name: Hyundai Motor Co Ltd; NAICS: 336110; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/15/business/tesla-layoff-elon-musk.html

Title: Tesla Plans To Lay Off Over 10% Of Workers:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 16, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3039044225

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-plans-lay-off-over-10-workers/docview/3039044225/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tesla Will Lay Off More Than 10% of Workers

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-will-lay-off-more-than-10-workers/docview/3038953941/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Signs of turmoil at Tesla multiplied Monday after the electric car company told employees it would lay off more than 10% of the workforce to cut costs and two senior executives resigned.
The job cuts, amounting to about 14,000 people, come as the company faces increasing competition and declining sales. The management changes and layoffs are a reminder of the unpredictability of CEO Elon Musk at a critical time for the company.
Musk has not outlined a plan to reverse a decline in car sales, and he appears focused on long-shot ventures such as a self-driving taxi, rather than new models that would help Tesla compete with cars being introduced by established carmakers and new rivals from China.
“As we prepare the company for the next phase of growth, it is extremely important to look at every aspect of the company for cost reductions and increasing productivity,” Musk told employees in a Monday morning email, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times.
“There is nothing I hate more, but it must be done,” he wrote.
Hours after that email, Drew Baglino, a senior vice president who has played a big role in the company’s rise from startup to dominant electric carmaker, said he had resigned.
“I made the difficult decision to move on from Tesla after 18 years yesterday,” Baglino said in a post on the social platform X. Baglino is one of only three managers besides Musk listed as a top executive on the company’s website. His longevity was unusual at a company known for high management turnover.
Baglino may have been blamed for some of Tesla’s recent troubles, said Gary Black, managing partner of the Future Fund, an investment firm. “Someone has to take the fall for the sharp deceleration in deliveries growth, near record inventories, and declining margins and it wasn’t going to be Elon,” Black said on X.
Tesla also appeared to be losing an executive key to winning regulatory approval for self-driving technology. Rohan Patel, a former aide to President Barack Obama who was Tesla’s head of policy and business development, tacitly confirmed reports that he was leaving. In a post on X, Patel thanked his co-workers and Musk for “the past eight years at Tesla.”
“My plans are to be a recess monitor for my second grade daughter, practice my violin, go to a bunch of bucket list sporting events and take my very patient wife on some long intended travel,” Patel said.
Investors often welcome job cuts because they can lead to higher profits. But that was not the case Monday, with Tesla shares ending the day down more than 5%.
Tesla regularly culls its workforce to remove employees whose performance managers consider weak, but the numbers are typically smaller. “This is something Elon and Tesla have consistently done throughout his career,” said Scott Acheychek, CEO of REX Shares, which offers funds investors use to bet on or against Tesla’s stock. “Ten percent is pretty big,” Acheychek added.
Musk’s email to employees was earlier reported by Electrek, an online news site, and Handelsblatt, a German business newspaper.
Musk did not indicate where the cuts would be made. Many of Tesla’s workers are based at four large car factories in Fremont, California; Austin, Texas; and Shanghai and near Berlin. Tesla also has a factory in Buffalo, New York, that produces charging equipment and a factory near Reno, Nevada, that makes batteries.
The layoffs may help the United Auto Workers union’s efforts to organize Tesla employees in the United States. The company’s workers may be more open to the union if they believe that representation would give them greater job security. Workers at a Volkswagen factory in Tennessee will vote this week on joining the UAW, and Mercedes-Benz workers in Alabama will vote next month.
Musk’s many other ventures, and his penchant for making polarizing political statements, have raised questions about his focus on managing Tesla. Wall Street is increasingly concerned about the company: Tesla’s share price has lost about one-third of its value this year.
Many investors had expressed hope that Tesla would revive flagging sales by introducing a car that would sell for about $25,000 as early as next year, increasing the number of people who could afford the company’s cars and responding to competition from Chinese companies that are already selling electric cars for as little as half that price tag.
Musk cast doubt on those plans by announcing this month that Tesla would unveil a Robotaxi in August. The self-driving taxi is seen as a long shot, in part because even the most advanced systems available today sometimes make glaring mistakes. In addition, federal and state regulators will have to sign off before Tesla can put such taxis on the road.
This month, Tesla reported a decline in sales that caught investors off guard. The company said it delivered 387,000 cars worldwide in the first quarter, down 8.5% from the year before. It was the first time Tesla’s quarterly sales had fallen on a year over year basis since the start of the pandemic in 2020.
The company slashed prices significantly over the course of 2023 to increase demand, which has reduced the profit Tesla makes on each car. Last week, Tesla reduced the price of its most advanced driver-assistance software to $99 a month from $199. But price cuts appear to be losing their effectiveness. Tesla will announce its financial results for the first quarter on April 23.
Rivals such as BYD of China, BMW of Germany, and Kia and Hyundai Motor of South Korea reported increases in electric vehicle sales for the same period, suggesting that slower overall demand for battery-powered models was not the only explanation for Tesla’s problems.
Established companies are closing the gap with Tesla on battery technology and have been building new assembly lines to achieve the cost savings made possible by mass production. Honda plans to begin producing electric vehicles at a factory in Marysville, Ohio, next year.
Hyundai will begin producing electric cars at a new factory in Georgia in October, José Muñoz, the president and global chief operating officer of Hyundai Motor, said in an interview last month. Hyundai will also begin allowing customers to buy cars on Amazon, an answer to Tesla’s practice of selling cars online.
Muñoz said that customers had been willing to pay more for Hyundai electric cars than they would for comparable Teslas. “At the beginning, Tesla was premium,” he said. “Now we’re premium . ”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Investments; Employees; Regulatory approval; Electric vehicles; Executives; Price cuts; Automobiles; Resignations; Cost control; Layoffs; Competition; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Regulatory approval Executives Price cuts Resignations Cost control Layoffs Factories

Location: New York; United States--US; China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Hyundai Motor Co Ltd; NAICS: 336110; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930

Identifier / keyword: Hyundai Motor Co; Nevada; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Fremont (Calif); AmazonCom Inc; Workplace Environment; Taxicabs And Taxicab Drivers; Batteries; Berlin (Germany); Austin (Tex); Appointm ents And Executive Changes; China; Marysville (Calif); Honda Motor Co Ltd; Obama, Barack; United States; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; Careers And Professions; Georgia; Elections; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Byd Co Ltd; Automobiles; United Automobile Workers; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Alabama; Europe; Germany; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; South Korea; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Handelsblatt; Ohio; X (Formerly Twitter); Layoffs And Job Reductions; Buffalo (Ny); Texas; Shanghai (China); Organized Labor; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Shutdowns (Institutional); Mercedes Benz; Reno (Nev); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; New York State; Volkswagen Ag; Stocks And Bonds; States (Us); Newspapers; Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Labor And Jobs; Kia Motors Corp; Tennessee; Business; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Start Ups

Title: Tesla Will Lay Off More Than 10% of Workers

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 15, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-15T22:48:45Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3038953941

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-will-lay-off-more-than-10-workers/docview/30 38953941/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a '90s Band Just Made It to the Garden: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Pelly, Jenn

Publication info: Pelly, Jenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-90s-band-just-made-garden/docview/3034588255/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The '90s alt-rock icons hit the Madison Square Garden stage for the first time Friday night, after the 21-year-old pop star invited them to join her on the road.
Olivia Rodrigo remembers her life in two parts: before she heard the Breeders' "Cannonball," and after, she told the crowd at Madison Square Garden on Friday night, when her Guts World Tour arrived in New York.
And that is how the '90s alt-rock idols came to play the New York arena for the first time last week, 31 years after that song from their platinum 1993 album, "Last Splash," charted on Billboard's Hot 100.
Rodrigo's camp initially approached the Breeders in September about opening some dates on the tour supporting her second album, "Guts." "My first reaction was, Wow, that seems kind of odd," the band's bassist, Josephine Wiggs, said in an interview. "But after I'd thought about it for a while, I thought, 'That's actually really genius."'
Kim Deal, the singer-guitarist who leads the band with her twin sister, Kelley, said she was surprised when they got the invite. "I'd heard 'Drivers License,' and I liked that a lot," she said, referring to Rodrigo's breakout 2021 smash.
Kelley wondered if it might be a mistake. "I thought, 'Is she sure? Do they really mean us?"'
But Rodrigo made her enthusiasm clear when the shows were confirmed, reaching out personally to share her excitement. "She texted each one of us individually," Kelley recalled.
"And said, 'Really happy to hear that you're going to do this,"' Wiggs added. "Very classy."
Aside from Kim, who played Madison Square Garden in 1992 when her earlier band, Pixies, opened for U2, no one in the group had ever performed at the venue before. Kim hadn't been back since, and said she had no memory of that previous gig: "I usually remember the bad shows, so it's a good thing that I really don't remember that one."
With the first date in the books, the Breeders spent part of Saturday afternoon glimpsing Rodrigo's soundcheck -- she was belting "Ballad of a Homeschooled Girl" to an empty arena -- and then briefly chatting with her. "So easy to talk to!" Kim reported as the Breeders headed up to the stage to adjust their own amps and pedals. The lights were up; two men vacuumed the previous night's pink and purple star-shaped confetti.
"How about we do a piece of 'Cannonball,' like when everything comes in?" Kim asked the band, which also includes the drummer Jim Macpherson. They had already tested the distorted ahh-ooohh-ahh vocalizations that open the song. Kim blew a whistle to emulate the record's microphone feedback.
Rodrigo was born a decade after the release of "Cannonball," but the 21-year-old heard it as a teenager and remembers "instantly falling in love with the Breeders," she wrote in an email. "I thought Kim was the coolest girl in the world," Rodrigo said. "I'm very inspired by them and everything they stand for. They are absolutely iconic, and playing these shows with them has been a surreal honor." (The Breeders have joined the tour for four shows at the Garden that wrap on Tuesday, and four more at the Kia Forum in Los Angeles later this summer.)
Mischief, wryness, confidence and camaraderie feel encoded into the poised riffs and bass line of "Cannonball," and it's easy to imagine girls gently headbanging along to it for eternity. Rodrigo went louder and crunchier on "Guts," long inspired by artists who are "not trying to recreate a version of rock music that guys make," as she told The New York Times last year.
Soundcheck proceeded like a supercut. "Should we do half of 'Do You Love Me Now'?" Kim asked before crashing the song open and letting its twin harmonies ring out. "A little piece of 'Drivin' on 9'?" signaling the aching country tune. "Should we throw in 'Gigantic'?" Kim asked before unleashing the titanic anthem she co-wrote and sang as a member of Pixies. (She dedicated its "big, big love" to Rodrigo during the show.)
Earlier, the band sat in a green room processing its Guts experience so far. Kelley had been impressed by the emotional arc of Rodrigo's songs the previous night. "I was texting somebody, 'I'm so empowered right now!"' She later reached out to praise Rodrigo's voice as "really special," observing, "Her tone and control are spectacular!"
"She performs with a really good sense of humor," Kim added.
Wiggs said she could hear some Breeders commonalties in a Rodrigo chord progression, while Macpherson detected a bit of the band in "Jealousy, Jealousy," from her first album, "Sour." "The bass riff was almost like a 'Hag,' 'Hellbound'-ish kind of thing," he said.
The Breeders expressed shock at how young Rodrigo's fans were, and the collective decibel of their screams on Friday night. "You're going to be surprised by how loud it was," Kelley said. Weren't their own amps loud, too? "Not louder than 30,000 tweens," she said.
Kim roasted her bandmates for withholding stage banter the night before. "Looking out at the sea of 7- and 8-year-olds, I had no idea what to say," Wiggs said, deadpan. "I could just about manage to say something to people who are obviously teenagers. I was like, OK, maybe I'll try to make eye contact with the dads."
The Deal sisters are no strangers to parental accompaniment at gigs. "My dad used to have Ray Charles in his headphones, watching us play, when he drove us around in the r.v. with Nirvana," Kim said, referring to the band's 1992 tour with what was then the biggest band on Earth. "He'd have his cassette Walkman," Kelley added. "He was a big supporter, but he'd heard us a million times."
In Kurt Cobain's liner notes to Nirvana's 1992 compilation "Incesticide," he detailed the recent life experiences that had meant the most to him since "becoming an untouchable boy genius," including "playing with the Breeders" on the list. "Nirvana and Foo Fighters would really curate their opening bands, which is I think what Olivia is doing in a way, curating new music that she wants fans to get to know," Kelley said.
Most of the young people watching from the front rows on Saturday were not familiar with the Breeders -- who are all in their 50s and 60s -- though there were exceptions. "My parents know who they are!" exclaimed an 18-year-old fan named Mack. "My dad said they had some jams back when he was younger. He didn't know if I would like them, but I trust Olivia."
Another fan, Elle, 16, was with her father, who saw the Breeders at Lollapalooza alongside Smashing Pumpkins and the Beastie Boys. "For me, this was really cool," he said. "I don't know the tour's other openers as well, but I've loved the Breeders since '94 when I saw them last."
Rodrigo's fans were decked out in sparkling skirts, purple bows and platform boots in honor of their heroine, who took the stage in a series of short, glittering skirts. The Breeders are known for more understated sartorial choices. Had they given any thought about to what to wear?
"I sent out a 'help' text to a friend of mine," Kelley admitted. "I said, I'm trying to upgrade my look from my T-shirt and jeans that I typically wear, but staying in my comfort zone. He said, 'I find glitter or sequins to always be the answer.' I just waited for him to laugh or something. That was no help to me at all. So I went with a T-shirt and jeans."
"Like she's been dressing since seventh grade," Kim said.
Photograph Top, clockwise from left, Josephine Wiggs, Kim Deal, Jim Macpherson and Kelley Deal of the Breeders. Above, the band onstage at Madison Square Garden on Saturday evening. Left, audience members watching the band, which opened for Olivia Rodrigo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Bands; Twins; Musical performances

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Rodrigo, Olivia

Company / organization: Name: Madison Square Garden Co; NAICS: 711310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/08/arts/music/the-breeders-olivia-rodrigo.html

Title: How a '90s Band Just Made It to the Garden:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 9, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3034588255

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-90s-band-just-made-garden/docview/3034588255/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The News Quiz: [Metropolitan Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/3033796408/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: 1. Several aid groups paused operations in Gaza after Israeli airstrikes killed seven aid workers belonging to which group?
Doctors Without Borders
International Red Cross
UNICEF
U.N.R.W.A.
World Central Kitchen
2. A separate Israeli strike this week, in Damascus, Syria, killed several senior Iranian military and intelligence officials. What location was bombed?
A hotel
An Iranian military base
Syrian Parliament
The Great Mosque of Damascus
The Iranian Embassy
3. A 7.4-magnitude earthquake rocked Taiwan this week, killing at least 10 people. It was the strongest quake to hit the island since what year?
1979
1989
1999
2009
2019
4. Florida's Supreme Court ruled that the state could severely restrict abortion. What other abortion-related decision did it issue this week?
That abortion rights are protected in the State Constitution
That an abortion referendum can go on the November ballot
That a 15-week abortion ban is legal, but a six-week ban is not
That frozen embryos are children
That the F.D.A. wrongly approved the abortion pill mifepristone
5. Ukraine lowered its minimum conscription age this week from 27 years old. What is the minimum age now?
15
18
20
22
25
6. Bird flu has affected herds of cattle across six states, according to officials. How many humans in the United States are known to have contracted the virus this year?
None
One
Three
Five
12
7. There was a mistake on one of the courts in the regional round of the N.C.A.A. women's basketball tournament. What was it?
The 3-point lines were different distances.
The baskets were placed off-center.
The foul lines were different distances.
The logo was recycled from 2014.
The court said Portland, but the game was in Oakland.
8. Which university has teams in both the women's and the men's N.C.A.A. Final Four this weekend?
Duke
Iowa
L.S.U.
N.C. State
Stanford
9. Which auto company's electric car sales dropped in the first three months of this year?
BYD
Hyundai
Kia
Rivian
Tesla
10. Online accounts linked to China's government are masquerading as Americans, promoting conspiracy theories and criticizing which U.S. presidential candidate?
Cornel West
Donald Trump
Jill Stein
President Biden
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
11. The Chicago Symphony Orchestra selected which young superstar to be its next music director?
Jack Antonoff
Elim Chan
Gustavo Dudamel
Hilary Hahn
Klaus Mäkelä
The News Quiz is published on Fridays in the Morning newsletter. To sign up, visit nytimes.com/themorning. Solutions: 1. E; 2. E; 3. C; 4. B; 5. E; 6. B; 7. A; 8. D; 9. E; 10. D; 11. E.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRA GENOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Earthquakes; Orchestras; Presidential elections; Abortion

Business indexing term: Subject: Orchestras

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/04/pageoneplus/06a2_newsquiz.html

Title: The News Quiz:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 6, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3033796408

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/3033796408/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tesla's Grip On Market Is in Doubt As Sales Slip: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack; Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Ewing, Jack; Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teslas-grip-on-market-is-doubt-as-sales-slip/docview/3030967015/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sales of the company's electric cars dropped in the first three months of the year, even as other automakers sold more battery-powered vehicles.
Tesla appeared to be losing command of the market it effectively created after it reported a stunning drop in quarterly sales on Tuesday, raising fresh questions about Elon Musk's leadership of the company.
The sales decline caught investors off guard as rivals like BYD of China and Kia and Hyundai of South Korea reported increases in electric vehicle sales, suggesting that slower overall demand for battery-powered models was not the only explanation for Tesla's problems.
Tesla pioneered the market for electric vehicles with its Model 3 sedan and Model Y sport utility vehicle, which proved that battery-powered cars could be appealing, practical and profitable. The cars revolutionized the auto industry and forced established carmakers to develop their own electric models.
But the market is evolving in ways that may not favor Tesla. In contrast to the early adopters who fueled Tesla's rise, mainstream buyers may be put off by the vehicles' unconventional design, including minimalist interiors and lack of buttons and switches. Almost all functions in Tesla vehicles are controlled from a large screen on the dashboard.
The system "makes it thoroughly distracting to adjust almost anything within the vehicle while motoring down the road," Consumer Reports wrote in a review on Tuesday of a new version of the Model 3.
Tesla, which sells cars online and does not have many showrooms, is often the target of complaints about poor service. That may provide an advantage to established carmakers, like Ford Motor and General Motors, that have extensive dealer networks and are ramping up production of electric vehicles.
Tesla seems at a loss to respond to those challenges. It has been slow to follow up its initial success with new models, and Mr. Musk appears disengaged. He did not react Tuesday to the sales figures on X, the social media platform that he owns and posts on prolifically. Instead, he threw barbs at Walt Disney Company executives whom he accuses of being "woke." Such remarks have made him a hero to conservatives but may be pushing liberals, who are more likely to buy electric cars, away from Tesla.
Tesla said it delivered 387,000 cars worldwide in the first quarter, down 8.5 percent from 423,000 in the same period last year. This was the first time Tesla's quarterly sales have fallen on a year over year basis since a modest drop at the start of the pandemic in 2020. The sales figures were also significantly lower than the estimates of Wall Street analysts who had expected a modest increase.
"Tesla can't stand still," Ben Rose, president of Battle Road Research, said in an email. "Chinese E.V.s are already gaining a foothold in Europe, and it is unclear how long they will be forbidden from entering the U.S."
More affordable cars would help Tesla appeal to a broader spectrum of buyers, Mr. Rose said.
To be sure, some of the sales decline may have reflected production problems beyond the company's control, including a fire at a Tesla factory near Berlin that was the result of an arson attack.
And the company's cars still have many fans. While panning the Model 3's controls, Consumer Reports said the latest version provided a better ride than its predecessor and had improved handling.
But investors are clearly alarmed. Tesla's shares have fallen more than 30 percent this year -- including a 5 percent drop on Tuesday -- because of concern that the company has lost momentum.
In China, Tesla faces BYD and dozens of other rivals with ambitions to expand worldwide. In Europe, established carmakers like Volkswagen and BMW have introduced more compelling battery-powered models. And in the United States, sales of electric cars are not growing as fast as they were a year ago, and many buyers are opting instead for hybrid models that pair a gasoline engine with batteries and electric motors.
Tesla rivals have continued to report sales increases. BYD said on Tuesday that it sold about 300,000 electric vehicles, up 13 percent from a year earlier. The company also sold 324,000 plug-in hybrid vehicles in the first quarter, up 15 percent.
BYD and other Chinese automakers have introduced new models rapidly, often undercutting Tesla on price. Those companies are also increasingly exporting cars to Europe, Southeast Asia and Latin America.
Kia, based in South Korea, said Tuesday that its sales of electric vehicles in the United States more than doubled in the first three months of the year compared with a year earlier after it introduced a new large sport utility vehicle, the EV9. Kia's sister company, Hyundai, said it sold more than 10,000 electric vehicles in the first quarter in the United States, up 75 percent.
Toyota, the world's largest automaker, doesn't sell many fully electric vehicles. But the company said U.S. sales of electrified vehicles, a category largely made up of hybrids, under the Toyota and Lexus brands was up 74 percent in the first quarter.
Tesla pioneered mass-market electric cars, but its lineup is aging. The company's only new model since 2020 is the Cybertruck, a futuristic pickup that went on sale in limited numbers last year. The least expensive version that Tesla says it can deliver this year starts at around $ 80,000, which makes it unaffordable to most car buyers.
Rivian, whose R1 pickup competes with the Cybertruck, said its sales, including of the truck and its two other models, rose 70 percent in the quarter, to 13,600 vehicles.
Tesla is working on an electric car that would cost around $ 25,000, but the model is not expected to go on sale in large numbers until 2026. In the meantime, Tesla remains dependent on the Model Y and the Model 3 for most of its sales.
The company has repeatedly cut prices, but analysts say the strategy has lowered its profits without doing enough to stimulate sales. The company has recently modestly raised the prices of some cars in the United States and China. The Model Y starts at nearly $ 45,000 before federal and state tax breaks, after an increase of $ 1,000 announced this week.
The quarterly sales figure shows Tesla managers "they need a real sales strategy and can't rely on cutting price alone," Gary Black, managing partner of the Future Fund, an investment firm, posted on X.
Mr. Musk, Tesla's chief executive, has not given a clear indication of how the company plans to regain momentum. At the same time, his polarizing statements and endorsement of right-wing conspiracy theories have alienated many of the left-leaning customers who are most likely to buy electric cars.
Raphaelle Cassens, a Los Angeles resident, gave up her leased Tesla Model Y last year and replaced it with a leased electric BMW i4. Mr. Musk was one reason she switched, she said.
"Honestly, I don't like him as an individual at all," said Ms. Cassens, who is a registered Democrat but described herself as nonpartisan. She also said she received poor service from the company. "The attitude from the company definitely reflects the owner," Ms. Cassens added.
At least one other large automaker is also struggling with electric vehicle sales. G.M. reported on Tuesday that its U.S. sales for the first quarter fell 1.5 percent, in large part because deliveries of battery-powered cars were down by about a fifth to around 16,000 vehicles.
The drop in battery-powered vehicle sales was the result of a sharp decline in sales of the Chevrolet Bolt, which G.M. stopped making at the end of 2023. Sales of other electric models that use G.M.'s newest battery technology rose but not enough to make up for the loss of the Bolt, which was one of the most affordable electric cars in the United States.
Photograph A charging station in Santa Monica, Calif. Tesla, which sells cars online and does not have many showrooms, often hears complaints about poor service. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Automobile industry; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Automobile sales

Location: China; United States--US; Europe; South Korea

Company / organization: Name: Consumer Reports; NAICS: 513120; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/02/business/tesla-auto-sales-first-quarter.html

Title: Tesla's Grip On Market Is in Doubt As Sales Slip:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 3, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3030967015

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teslas-grip-on-market-is-doubt-as-sales-slip/docview/3030967015/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tesla’s Sales Drop, a Sign That Its Grip on the EV Market Is Slipping

Author: Ewing, Jack; Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Ewing, Jack; Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-s-sales-drop-sign-that-grip-on-ev-market-is/docview/3030898275/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Tesla appeared to be losing command of the market it effectively created after it reported a stunning drop in quarterly sales Tuesday, raising fresh questions about Elon Musk’s leadership of the company.
The sales decline caught investors off guard as rivals such as BYD of China and Kia and Hyundai of South Korea reported increases in electric vehicle sales, suggesting that slower overall demand for battery-powered models was not the only explanation for Tesla’s problems.
Tesla pioneered the market for electric vehicles with its Model 3 sedan and Model Y sport utility vehicle, which proved that battery-powered cars could be appealing, practical and profitable. The cars revolutionized the auto industry and forced established carmakers to develop their own electric models.
But the market is evolving in ways that may not favor Tesla. In contrast to the early adopters who fueled Tesla’s rise, mainstream buyers may be put off by the vehicles’ unconventional design, including minimalist interiors and lack of buttons and switches. Almost all functions in Tesla vehicles are controlled from a large screen on the dashboard.
The system “makes it thoroughly distracting to adjust almost anything within the vehicle while motoring down the road,” Consumer Reports wrote in a review Tuesday of a new version of the Model 3.
Tesla, which sells cars online and does not have many showrooms, is often the target of complaints about poor service. That may provide an advantage to established carmakers, such as Ford Motor Co. and General Motors, that have extensive dealer networks and are ramping up production of electric vehicles.
Tesla seems at a loss to respond to those challenges. It has been slow to follow up its initial success with new models, and Musk appears disengaged. He did not react Tuesday to the sales figures on X, formerly Twitter, the social media platform that he owns and posts on prolifically. Instead, he threw barbs at The Walt Disney Co. executives whom he accuses of being “woke.” Such remarks have made him a hero to conservatives but may be pushing liberals, who are more likely to buy electric cars, away from Tesla.
Tesla said it delivered 387,000 cars worldwide in the first quarter, down 8.5% from 423,000 in the same period last year. This was the first time Tesla’s quarterly sales have fallen on a year-over-year basis since a modest drop at the start of the pandemic in 2020. The sales figures were also significantly lower than the estimates of Wall Street analysts, who had expected a modest increase.
“Tesla can’t stand still,” Ben Rose, president of Battle Road Research, said in an email. “Chinese EVs are already gaining a foothold in Europe, and it is unclear how long they will be forbidden from entering the U.S.”
More affordable cars would help Tesla appeal to a broader spectrum of buyers, Rose said.
To be sure, some of the sales decline may have reflected production problems beyond the company’s control, including a fire at a Tesla factory near Berlin that was the result of an arson attack.
And the company’s cars still have many fans. While panning the Model 3’s controls, Consumer Reports said the latest version provided a better ride than its predecessor and had improved handling.
But investors are clearly alarmed. Tesla’s shares have fallen more than 30% this year — including a 5% drop Tuesday — because of concern that the company has lost momentum.
In China, Tesla faces BYD and dozens of other rivals with ambitions to expand worldwide. In Europe, established carmakers such as Volkswagen and BMW have introduced more compelling battery-powered models. And in the United States, sales of electric cars are not growing as fast as they were a year ago, and many buyers are opting instead for hybrid models that pair a gasoline engine with batteries and electric motors.
Tesla rivals have continued to report sales increases. BYD said Tuesday that it sold about 300,000 electric vehicles, up 13% from a year earlier. The company also sold 324,000 plug-in hybrid vehicles in the first quarter, up 15%.
BYD and other Chinese automakers have introduced new models rapidly, often undercutting Tesla on price. Those companies are also increasingly exporting cars to Europe, Southeast Asia and Latin America.
Kia, based in South Korea, said Tuesday that its sales of electric vehicles in the United States more than doubled in the first three months of the year compared with a year earlier after it introduced a new large SUV, the EV9. Kia’s sister company, Hyundai, said it sold more than 10,000 electric vehicles in the first quarter in the United States, up 75%.
Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, doesn’t sell many fully electric vehicles. But the company said U.S. sales of electrified vehicles, a category largely made up of hybrids, under the Toyota and Lexus brands was up 74% in the first quarter.
Tesla pioneered mass-market electric cars, but its lineup is aging. The company’s only new model since 2020 is the Cybertruck, a futuristic pickup that went on sale in limited numbers last year. The least expensive version Tesla says it can deliver this year starts at around $80,000, which makes it unaffordable to most car buyers.
Rivian, whose R1 pickup competes with the Cybertruck, said its sales, including of the truck and its two other models, rose 70% in the quarter, to 13,600 vehicles.
Tesla is working on an electric car that would cost around $25,000, but the model is not expected to go on sale in large numbers until 2026. In the meantime, Tesla remains dependent on the Model Y and the Model 3 for most of its sales.
The company has repeatedly cut prices, but analysts say the strategy has lowered its profits without doing enough to stimulate sales. The company has recently modestly raised the prices of some cars in the United States and China. The Model Y starts at nearly $45,000 before federal and state tax breaks, after an increase of $1,000 announced this week.
The quarterly sales figure shows Tesla managers “they need a real sales strategy and can’t rely on cutting price alone,” Gary Black, managing partner of the Future Fund, an investment firm, posted on X.
Musk has not given a clear indication of how Tesla plans to regain momentum. At the same time, his polarizing statements and endorsement of right-wing conspiracy theories have alienated many of the left-leaning customers who are most likely to buy electric cars.
Raphaelle Cassens, a Los Angeles resident, gave up her leased Tesla Model Y last year and replaced it with a leased electric BMW i4. Musk was one reason she switched, she said.
“Honestly, I don’t like him as an individual at all,” said Cassens, who is a registered Democrat but described herself as nonpartisan. She also said she received poor service from the company. “The attitude from the company definitely reflects the owner,” Cassens added.
At least one other large automaker is also struggling with electric vehicle sales. GM reported Tuesday that its U.S. sales for the first quarter fell 1.5%, in large part because deliveries of battery-powered cars were down by about one-fifth to around 16,000 vehicles.
The drop in battery-powered vehicle sales was the result of a sharp decline in sales of the Chevrolet Bolt, which GM stopped making at the end of 2023. Sales of other electric models that use GM’s newest battery technology rose but not enough to make up for the loss of the Bolt, which was one of the most affordable electric cars in the United States.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Automobile industry; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Automobile sales

Location: China; New York; United States--US; Europe; South Korea

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Consumer Reports; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: Hyundai Motor Co; International Trade And World Market; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); General Motors; Conspiracy Theories; International Relations; Democratic Party; Consumer Reports; Kia Motors Corp; Fringe Groups And Movements; China; United States; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; Ford Motor Co; Byd Co Ltd; Automobiles; Europe; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; South Korea; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Arson; X (Formerly Twitter); Advertising And Marketing; Toyota Motor Corp; Los Angeles (Calif); E Commerce; Foreign Investments; Musk, Elon; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Rivian Automotive Llc; Volkswagen Ag; Stocks And Bonds; Lexus Division Of Toyota Motor Corp; Boudette, Neal E; Walt Disney Company; Fires And Firefighters; Latin America; Batteries; Business

Title: Tesla’s Sales Drop, a Sign That Its Grip on the EV Market Is Slipping

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 2, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-02T23:02:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3030898275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-s-sales-drop-sign-that-grip-on-ev-market-is/docview/3030898275/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2985428582/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LABOR
Volkswagen Workers Plan Vote on Joining U.A.W.
Workers at Volkswagen's factory in Chattanooga, Tenn., will vote next month on whether they want to be represented by the United Auto Workers union.
The National Labor Relations Board said Monday that the election will take place from April 17 to 19 at the plant, in the first test of the union's effort to organize nonunion automobile factories across the nation.
Workers at the 3.8 million square foot factory with more than 4,000 production workers filed paperwork March 18 seeking the election.
The U.A.W. announced its organizing campaign last fall after it won strong contracts with Detroit automakers. The U.A.W. said it would simultaneously target more than a dozen nonunion auto plants including those run by Tesla, Nissan, Mercedes-Benz, Hyundai, Kia, Toyota, Honda, and others. Associated Press
AUTOMOTIVE
Nissan Aims to Expand Stable of Electric Vehicles
Nissan will expand its electric vehicle lineup, develop more powerful batteries and cut production costs, while speeding up the process, in what the Japanese auto maker's chief called "The Arc" pathway to higher sales by 2030.
"The auto industry is now being forced to reshape its values so we can say continuous change is the new normal," Makoto Uchida, Nissan's chief executive said on Monday in outlining an ambitious business plan. "Nissan must change. We cannot succeed if we continue along the same path."
Costs will come down for electric models so they'll be about the same as gasoline models by fiscal 2030, while global sales will grow by a million vehicles during that period, he added.
Last year, Nissan Motor Co. sold nearly 3.4 million vehicles around the world, up about 5 percent from the previous year.
The company is planning 30 new models over the next three years, 16 of them E.V.s. Nissan plans to launch 34 E.V. models from fiscal 2024 through fiscal 2030. Associated Press
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Ericsson to Lay Off 1,200 Over Lagging 5G Sales
Ericsson said on Monday that it would lay off about 1,200 employees in Sweden as part of cost-cutting measures announced this year as customers reduce their spending on 5G gear.
After cutting thousands of staff last year, telecoms equipment suppliers like Ericsson and Finland's Nokia are expecting 2024 to remain challenging as 5G equipment sales slow in North America and are also expected to ease from record levels in India.
Ericsson told Reuters in January it could look at further cost cuts this year including layoffs.
Citing ongoing negotiations with unions, the company declined to give a figure for how much it could save by cutting staff.
The company said it would continue with initiatives to increase operational efficiency during 2024. Reuters
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMIMASA MAYAMA/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Nonunion; Layoffs; Electric vehicles; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Factories

Company / organization: Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/25/business/26bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 26, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2985428582

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2985428582/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Wedding Cake With Lots of Teeth to Sink Into: [Society Desk]

Author: Sadiba Hasan

Publication info: Sadiba Hasan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wedding-cake-with-lots-teeth-sink-into/docview/2973574429/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Just a few weeks after meeting, Tiffany Langlinais and Michael Graves evacuated New Orleans ahead of Hurricane Ida. A tumultuous two weeks on the road solidified their relationship.
After Tiffany Quynhnhu Langlinais and Michael Steven Graves had their first date in central New Orleans, Mr. Graves drove off to Chicago in a green 2008 Kia Sedona minivan to officiate a friend's wedding. And so, to Ms. Langlinais's friends, he was known as "minivan Mike."
Ms. Langlinais, 33, wasn't used to dating a man who drove a minivan, but she said she appreciated seeing him in an "unfiltered way" throughout the date. She found him forthright and intentional, plus she was "a fan" of his beard.
The two met in June 2021 on Magazine Street, a six mile-long, major thoroughfare in New Orleans, after matching on Hinge in May. Mr. Graves, 35, needed to buy gifts for his newborn nephew in Chicago. He wanted to make sure he saw Ms. Langlinais before he left town for two weeks, so he asked her if she wanted to join him.
"We hit it off right away. I thought she was very beautiful and couldn't believe she was into me," Mr. Graves said.
During his drive to Chicago, he had 14 hours to think about the date -- and how much he liked her. The next day, he texted her that he was excited to come back to New Orleans and see her again.
When he returned, they went bowling. Ms. Langlinais "whupped him," she said. Afterward, they got a late-night burger at Beachcorner Bar and Grill. They stumbled upon a cobblestone alley nearby, where live music animated the street. It was the perfect setup for their first kiss.
A few weeks later, just before Hurricane Ida struck, the couple decided to evacuate New Orleans together, despite not knowing each other for long. They spent two weeks on the road.
They stayed with friends in Meridian, Miss.; Nashville; Rosemary Beach, Fla.; and Biloxi, Miss., where Ms. Langlinais grew up.
"We got put into a 14-day pressure cooker," Mr. Graves said about their two intense weeks on the road -- but it brought them closer together.
During their stop in Nashville, Ms. Langlinais met several of Mr. Graves's friends. When they saw her, they asked Mr. Graves, "Is this your girlfriend?" She stood there awkwardly and avoided the question. So when they went on a Walmart run shortly afterward, he asked her if she wanted to be his girlfriend. She said yes. A few days later, during their stop in Biloxi, he met her parents.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
In August 2023, Mr. Graves proposed on a beach in Door County, Wis., while watching the blue supermoon gleam above the water. With no cell reception, they watched the stars and listened to the waves.
A large group of people nearby disturbed the peace by banging sticks on a massive piece of driftwood. "In my head, I was like, I don't want this to be the background music for my proposal," Mr. Graves said. So he shouted "boo," nice and loud. "It was the most effective boo of my life because they stopped immediately," Mr. Graves said. He was finally able to propose.
On Jan. 6, the couple opened a pop-up cake shop together for Mardi Gras season called King Cake Drive-Thru. In February, they moved in together into a home they had purchased. It is a block away from where they had their first kiss.
They also both own their own businesses. Ms. Langlinais is the founder of Freret Napoleon, a marketing company. She graduated from Millsaps College in Jackson, Miss., with a bachelor's degree in business administration. Mr. Graves is the owner of Bof Bars, a novelty ice cream company. He has a bachelor's degree in history from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and a law degree from DePaul University.
On March 9, the couple were married at the Broadside, a live music venue in New Orleans, in front of 300 guests. Matthew Oglesbee, a friend who was previously ordained by the Universal Life Church, officiated.
Many of their vendors were local Mardi Gras artists, including Coco Darrow, a décor artist who created a giant crawfish pot that guests could step into, hold a spoon and take photos. The couple also had a four-foot-long alligator cake made by Bittersweet Confections.
As business owners in New Orleans, their wedding date was significant because it was during a break after Mardi Gras season and before the start of festival season. They both love New Orleans and the city's culture.
"It's our home," Mr. Graves said. "Neither of us were born there, but we chose to go there."
"Mike is from Chicago, I'm from Mississippi -- we are from completely different worlds," added Ms. Langlinais, who is first generation Vietnamese American. "It's kind of crazy how we found each other."
After their wedding, they drove off in the green minivan with a friend as their chauffeur.
Photograph Tiffany Langlinais, Michael Graves (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE ROSE EDIT | MICHAELA TODARO X TAYLOR SIMONE HUNTER) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Weddings; Mardi Gras

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/22/style/tiffany-langlinais-michael-graves-wedding.html

Title: A Wedding Cake With Lots of Teeth to Sink Into:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.13

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 24, 2024

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2973574429

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wedding-cake-with-lots-teeth-sink-into/docview/2973574429/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On the Court and on the Mic, She's Got Game: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Morgan, Emmanu el

Publication info: Morgan, Emmanuel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-court-mic-shes-got-game/docview/2973341932/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The sophomore guard is prepping collaborations with hip-hop heavyweights like Lil Wayne and NLE Choppa as she helps L.S.U. defend its basketball title in the N.C.A.A. tournament.
When Flau'jae Johnson helped lead the Louisiana State University women's basketball team to a national championship last April, in her first season on the squad, she ascended to the top of the sport. The win, the school's first title, also vaulted her as a hip-hop artist, lifting a career that has found her teaming up with rap royalty.
At least twice in the past year, Johnson staged rap performances within 24 hours of a game or a practice, in one instance opening for the chart-topping rapper and singer Rod Wave in Atlanta after traveling from Louisiana on a day off from the court. She walked offstage to body cramps after another performance in November; she had scored 17 points in a game hours before her show.
"I know this is what I'm supposed to be doing," said Johnson, 20, a sophomore guard who averages 14.2 points per game and over 62,000 monthly listeners on Spotify. "If you want to be a legend at something, you've got to do something nobody has done before and execute it at a high level."
Johnson's two careers went into overdrive over the past year, and she's balancing both as L.S.U. prepares to defend its title in the N.C.A.A. tournament, starting with its first-round game on Friday. The same day, Johnson released "AMF (Ain't My Fault)," her new song with the rapper NLE Choppa, who last year asked her and her L.S.U. teammate Angel Reese to appear in the video for his single "Champions"; they made cameos alongside other top athletes including the boxers Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Mike Tyson. Johnson then asked NLE Choppa to collaborate on "AMF," which premiered on Snapchat through a partnership with the multimedia messaging app.
"She's redefining and showcasing the renaissance and the revolution that is possible in women's sports," said Ketra Armstrong, a professor of sports management at the University of Michigan. "She's showing not only how you do it, but how you do it masterfully without compromising one for the other."
Kia Brooks, Johnson's mother and business manager, estimated that the rapper-hooper has earned nearly $ 3 million from endorsement deals involving her name, image and likeness, including partnerships with the audio-equipment maker JBL and the sports drink brand Powerade. Johnson also has a distribution deal with Roc Nation, and is coordinating a music video for an upcoming song with Lil Wayne, who became a fan during the 2023 basketball tournament. Since late last year, camera crews have followed Johnson for an Amazon Prime Video documentary that will profile her and other star L.S.U. athletes.
Johnson began rapping at 7 years old -- about a year after taking up basketball -- inspired in part by her father. Jason Johnson, a rapper who was known as Camoflauge, was fatally shot in 2003 in Savannah, Ga., just months before Johnson's birth, but she said she feels his presence every day. Her first name (pronounced FLAW-zhay) is derived from his stage name, Brooks said, and Johnson often makes mention of him in her songs. She performed a song about gun violence when she competed on America's Got Talent at 14. In an introspective freestyle over the beat of the Fugees' "Ready or Not," Johnson raps, "They killed my daddy while my mama was pregnant, how I'm supposed to feel?"
"He's definitely my No. 1 inspiration," Johnson said. "I get my whole swag from him."
While in high school, she posted her music to YouTube, building a following that grew alongside fans' interest in her plans as a top recruit: She publicly announced her commitment to L.S.U. in a video that also promoted the release of a new song.
Her off-campus two-bedroom apartment doubles as a recording studio complete with speakers, a microphone and monitors. Her jerseys are hung up on the walls, and the home studio also houses her championship ring and pet lizard. She often composes lyrics during flights to away games and records in her free time. Fans at her shows will hold up four fingers as she performs -- a reference to her jersey number.
"I've been rapping and playing basketball my whole life," Johnson said. "Now that they see me on different stages, they always ask, 'How do you do it?' But it's like, I've been doing it. Turn up in the summer, play basketball during basketball season and then go on about my day."
Now, though, the victory lap for last year's title is over. And just as she faces challengers on the court, Johnson has seen social media commenters try to discredit her rap skills. "Get in the gym," is a common quip, she said. But she said those jabs only serve to motivate.
"You can be talented at multiple things and I don't think people are used to seeing that," she said.
Photograph Flau'jae Johnson, a sophomore guard on Louisiana State University's women's basketball team, averages 14.2 points per game and more than 62,000 monthly listeners on Spotify. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIKA GOLDRING/GETTY IMAGES; CARLY MACKLER/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Tennis; Tournaments & championships; Rap music; Women; High school basketball; Musical performances; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Louisiana

People: Lil Wayne (rapper)

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990; Name: Louisiana State University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/22/arts/music/flaujae-johnson-lsu-basketball-rap.html

Title: On the Court and on the Mic, She's Got Game:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 23, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2973341932

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-court-mic-shes-got-game/docview/2973341932/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Watch the Way You're Driving. Carmakers Are Watching, Too.: [Correction]

Author: Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/watch-way-youre-driving-carmakers-are-watching/docview/2955126484/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Kenn Dahl says he has always been a careful driver. The owner of a software company near Seattle, he drives a leased Chevrolet Bolt. He's never been responsible for an accident.
So Mr. Dahl, 65, was surprised in 2022 when the cost of his car insurance jumped by 21 percent. Quotes from other insurance companies were also high. One insurance agent told him his LexisNexis report was a factor.
LexisNexis is a New York-based global data broker with a "Risk Solutions" division that caters to the auto insurance industry and has traditionally kept tabs on car accidents and tickets. Upon Mr. Dahl's request, LexisNexis sent him a 258-page "consumer disclosure report," which it must provide per the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
What it contained stunned him: more than 130 pages detailing each time he or his wife had driven the Bolt over the previous six months. It included the dates of 640 trips, their start and end times, the distance driven and an accounting of any speeding, hard braking or sharp accelerations. The only thing it didn't have is where they had driven the car.
On a Thursday morning in June for example, the car had been driven 7.33 miles in 18 minutes; there had been two rapid accelerations and two incidents of hard braking.
According to the report, the trip details had been provided by General Motors -- the manufacturer of the Chevy Bolt. LexisNexis analyzed that driving data to create a risk score "for insurers to use as one factor of many to create more personalized insurance coverage," according to a LexisNexis spokesman, Dean Carney. Eight insurance companies had requested information about Mr. Dahl from LexisNexis over the previous month.
"It felt like a betrayal," Mr. Dahl said. "They're taking information that I didn't realize was going to be shared and screwing with our insurance."
In recent years, insurance companies have offered incentives to people who install dongles in their cars or download smartphone apps that monitor their driving, including how much they drive, how fast they take corners, how hard they hit the brakes and whether they speed. But "drivers are historically reluctant to participate in these programs," as Ford Motor put it in a patent application that describes what is happening instead: Car companies are collecting information directly from internet-connected vehicles for use by the insurance industry.
Sometimes this is happening with a driver's awareness and consent. Car companies have established relationships with insurance companies, so that if drivers want to sign up for what's called usage-based insurance -- where rates are set based on monitoring of their driving habits -- it's easy to collect that data wirelessly from their cars.
But in other instances, something much sneakier has happened. Modern cars are internet-enabled, allowing access to services like navigation, roadside assistance and car apps that drivers can connect to their vehicles to locate them or unlock them remotely. In recent years, automakers, including G.M., Honda, Kia and Hyundai, have started offering optional features in their connected-car apps that rate people's driving. Some drivers may not realize that, if they turn on these features, the car companies then give information about how they drive to data brokers like LexisNexis.
Automakers and data brokers that have partnered to collect detailed driving data from millions of Americans say they have drivers' permission to do so. But the existence of these partnerships is nearly invisible to drivers, whose consent is obtained in fine print and murky privacy policies that few read.
Especially troubling is that some drivers with vehicles made by G.M. say they were tracked even when they did not turn on the feature -- called OnStar Smart Driver -- and that their insurance rates went up as a result.
"GM's OnStar Smart Driver service is optional to customers," a G.M. spokeswoman, Malorie Lucich, said. "Customer benefits include learning more about their safe driving behaviors or vehicle performance that, with their consent, may be used to obtain insurance quotes. Customers can also unenroll from Smart Driver at any time."
Even for those who opt in, the risks are far from clear. I have a G.M. car, a Chevrolet. I went through the enrollment process for Smart Driver; there was no warning or prominent disclosure that any third party would get access to my driving data.
"I am surprised," said Frank Pasquale, a law professor at Cornell University. "Because it's not within the reasonable expectation of the average consumer, it should certainly be an industry practice to prominently disclose that is happening."
Policymakers have expressed concern about the collection of sensitive information from consumers' cars. California's privacy regulator is currently investigating automakers' data collection practices. Last month, Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts also urged the Federal Trade Commission to investigate.
"The 'internet of things' is really intruding into the lives of all Americans," Senator Markey said in an interview. "If there is now a collusion between automakers and insurance companies using data collected from an unknowing car owner that then raises their insurance rates, that's, from my perspective, a potential per se violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act."
That is the federal law that prohibits unfair and deceptive business practices that harm consumers.
'Smart Driver'
Mr. Dahl shared his experience on an online forum for Chevy Bolt enthusiasts, on a thread where other people expressed shock to find that LexisNexis had their driving data. Warnings about the tracking are scattered across online discussion boards dedicated to vehicles manufactured by G.M. -- including Corvettes, a sports car designed for racking up "acceleration events." (One driver lamented having data collected during a "track day," while testing out the Corvette's limits on a professional racetrack.)
Numerous people on the forums complained about spiking premiums as a result. A Cadillac driver in Palm Beach County, Fla., who asked not to be named because he is considering a lawsuit against G.M., said he was denied auto insurance by seven companies in December. When he asked an agent why, she advised him to pull his LexisNexis report. He discovered six months of his driving activity, including many instances of hard braking and hard accelerating, as well as some speeding.
"I don't know the definition of hard brake. My passenger's head isn't hitting the dash," he said. "Same with acceleration. I'm not peeling out. I'm not sure how the car defines that. I don't feel I'm driving aggressively or dangerously."
When he finally obtained car insurance, through a private broker, it was double what he had previously been paying.
The Cadillac owner, Mr. Dahl and the drivers on the forums had all been enrolled in OnStar Smart Driver. OnStar is G.M.'s Internet-connected service for its cars and Smart Driver is a free, gamified feature within G.M.'s connected car apps (all part of OnStar, but branded MyChevrolet, MyBuick, MyGMC and MyCadillac).
Smart Driver can "help you become a better driver," according to a corporate website, by tracking and rating seatbelt use and driving habits. In a recent promotional campaign, an Instagram influencer used Smart Driver in a competition with her husband to find out who could collect the most digital badges, such as "brake genius" and "limit hero."
In response to questions from The New York Times, G.M. confirmed that it shares "select insights" about hard braking, hard accelerating, speeding over 80 miles an hour and drive time of Smart Driver enrollees with LexisNexis and another data broker that works with the insurance industry called Verisk.
Customers turn on Smart Driver, said Ms. Lucich, the G.M. spokeswoman, "at the time of purchase or through their vehicle mobile app." It is possible that G.M. drivers who insisted they didn't opt in were unknowingly signed up at the dealership, where salespeople can receive bonuses for successful enrollment of customers in OnStar services, including Smart Driver, according to a company manual.
The Cadillac owner in Florida said he had not heard of Smart Driver and never noticed it in the MyCadillac app. He reviewed the paperwork he signed at the dealership when he bought his Cadillac in the fall of 2021 and found no mention of signing up for it.
"When a customer accepts the user terms and privacy statement (which are separately reviewed in the enrollment flow), they consent to sharing their data with third parties," Ms. Lucich wrote in an email, pointing to OnStar's privacy statement.
But that statement's section on "third-party business relationships" does not mention Smart Driver. It names SiriusXM as a company G.M. might share data with, not LexisNexis Risk Solutions, which G.M. has partnered with since 2019.
Jen Caltrider, a researcher at Mozilla who reviewed the privacy policies for more than 25 car brands last year, said that drivers have little idea about what they are consenting to when it comes to data collection. She said it is "impossible for consumers to try and understand" the legalese-filled policies for car companies, their connected services and their apps. She called cars "a privacy nightmare."
"The car companies are really good at trying to link these features to safety and say they are all about safety," Ms. Caltrider said. "They're about making money."
Neither the car companies nor the data brokers deny that they are engaged in this practice, though automakers say the main purpose of their driver feedback programs is to help people develop safer driving habits.
After LexisNexis and Verisk get data from consumers' cars, they sell information about how people are driving to insurance companies. To access it, the insurance companies must get consent from the drivers -- say, when they go out shopping for car insurance and sign off on boilerplate language that gives insurance companies the right to pull third-party reports. (Insurance companies commonly ask for access to a consumer's credit or risk reports, though they are barred from doing so in California, Massachusetts, Michigan and Hawaii.)
An employee familiar with G.M.'s Smart Driver said the company's annual revenue from the program is in the low millions of dollars.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions, which retains consumers' driving data for six months, has "strict privacy and security policies designed to ensure that data is not accessed or used impermissibly," the company said in a statement.
Verisk provides insurers with trip data and a risk score "approved by insurance regulators in 46 states and the District of Columbia," said a spokeswoman, Amy Ebenstein. Automakers that Verisk gets data from "provide their customers notice and obtain appropriate consents," she said.
Some drivers who had Smart Driver turned on, though, said they did not even realize they were enrolled until they saw warnings on online forums and then checked their app. They quickly unenrolled themselves by turning off Smart Driver in their car app.
Omri Ben-Shahar, a law professor at the University of Chicago, said he was in favor of usage-based insurance -- where insurers monitor mileage and driving habits to determine premiums -- because people who are knowingly monitored are better drivers. "People drive differently," he said. "The impact on safety is enormous."
But he was troubled, he said, by "stealth enrollment" in programs with "surprising and potentially injurious" data collection. There is no public safety benefit if people don't know that how they drive will affect how much they pay for insurance.
'Real-World Driving Behavior'
General Motors is not the only automaker sharing driving behavior. Kia, Subaru and Mitsubishi also contribute to the LexisNexis "Telematics Exchange," a "portal for sharing consumer-approved connected car data with insurers." As of 2022, the exchange, according to a LexisNexis news release, has "real-world driving behavior" collected "from over 10 million vehicles."
Verisk also claims to have access to data from millions of vehicles and partnerships with major automakers, including Ford, Honda and Hyundai.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Two of these automakers said they were not sharing data or only limited data. Subaru shares odometer data with LexisNexis for Subaru customers who turn on Starlink and authorize that data be shared "when shopping for auto insurance," said a spokesman, Dominick Infante.
Ford "does not transmit any connected vehicle data to either partner," said a spokesman, Alan Hall, but partnered with them "to explore ways to support customers" who want to take part in usage-based insurance programs. Ford will share driving behavior from a car directly with an insurance company, he said, when a customer gives explicit consent via an in-vehicle touch screen.
The other automakers all have optional driver-coaching features in their apps -- Kia, Mitsubishi and Hyundai have "Driving Score," while Honda and Acura have "Driver Feedback" -- that, when turned on, collect information about people's mileage, speed, braking and acceleration that is then shared with LexisNexis or Verisk, the companies said in response to questions from The New York Times.
But that would not be evident or obvious to drivers using these features. In fact, before a Honda owner activates Driver Feedback, a screen titled "Respect for your Privacy" assures drivers that "your data will never be shared without your consent." But it is shared -- with Verisk, a fact disclosed in a more than 2,000-word "terms and conditions" screen that a driver needs to click "accept" on. (Honda does mention Verisk in an FAQ on its website and Kia highlights its relationship with LexisNexis Risk Solutions on its website. A Kia spokesman said LexisNexis can't share driving score data of Kia participants with insurers without additional consent.)
Drivers who have realized what is happening are not happy. The Palm Beach Cadillac owner said he would never buy another car from G.M. He is planning to sell his Cadillac.
How to Find Out What Your Car Is Doing
See the data your car is capable of collecting with this tool: https://vehicleprivacyreport.com/.
Check your connected car app, if you use one, to see if you are enrolled in one of these programs.
Do an online search for "privacy request form" alongside the name of your vehicle's manufacturer. There should be instructions on how to request information your car company has about you.
Request your LexisNexis report: https://consumer.risk.lexisnexis.com/consumer
Request your Verisk report: https://fcra.verisk.com/#/
Find something interesting, or know more about this? Contact me at kashmir.hill@nytimes.com.
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Photograph From left: Part of the sign-up process for Smart Driver from OnStar, G.M.'s internet-connected service; the OnStar website explaining Smart Driver; and a driving statistics display in a Subaru. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERRY RATZLAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Some drivers of G.M. cars, like these Chevrolet Bolts, may not realize that their data is being shared with insurance companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Part of Honda's privacy statement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HONDA) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Internet; Consumers; Disclosure; Insurance companies; Automobile driving; Data collection; Insurance rates; Customers; Privacy; Automobile insurance; Vehicles; Consent; Insurance industry; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Disclosure Insurance companies Insurance rates Customers Automobile insurance Insurance industry Automobile dealers

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LexisNexis Group; NAICS: 513140, 516210, 519290; Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150; Name: OnStar; NAICS: 334290, 561621

Title: Watch the Way You're Driving. Carmakers Are Watching, Too.:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 12, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2955126484

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/watch-way-youre-driving-carmakers-are-watching/docview/2955126484/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Automakers Are Sharing Consumers’ Driving Behavior With Insurance Companies

Author: Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/automakers-are-sharing-consumers-driving-behavior/docview/2955027831/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Kenn Dahl says he has always been a careful driver. The owner of a software company near Seattle, he drives a leased Chevrolet Bolt. He’s never been responsible for an accident.
So Dahl, 65, was surprised in 2022 when the cost of his car insurance jumped 21%. Quotes from other insurance companies were also high. One insurance agent told him his LexisNexis report was a factor.
LexisNexis is a New York-based global data broker with a “Risk Solutions” division that caters to the auto insurance industry and has traditionally kept tabs on car accidents and tickets. Upon Dahl’s request, LexisNexis sent him a 258-page “consumer disclosure report,” which it must provide per the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
What it contained stunned him: more than 130 pages detailing each time he or his wife had driven the Bolt over the previous six months. It included the dates of 640 trips, their start and end times, the distance driven and an accounting of any speeding, hard braking or sharp accelerations. The only thing it didn’t have is where they had driven the car.
On a Thursday morning in June for example, the car had been driven 7.33 miles in 18 minutes; there had been two rapid accelerations and two incidents of hard braking.
According to the report, the trip details had been provided by General Motors — the manufacturer of the Chevy Bolt. LexisNexis analyzed that driving data to create a risk score “for insurers to use as one factor of many to create more personalized insurance coverage,” according to a LexisNexis spokesperson, Dean Carney. Eight insurance companies had requested information about Dahl from LexisNexis over the previous month.
“It felt like a betrayal,” Dahl said. “They’re taking information that I didn’t realize was going to be shared and screwing with our insurance.”
In recent years, insurance companies have offered incentives to people who install dongles in their cars or download smartphone apps that monitor their driving, including how much they drive, how fast they take corners, how hard they hit the brakes and whether they speed. But “drivers are historically reluctant to participate in these programs,” as Ford Motor put it in a patent application that describes what is happening instead: Car companies are collecting information directly from internet-connected vehicles for use by the insurance industry.
Sometimes this is happening with a driver’s awareness and consent. Car companies have established relationships with insurance companies, so that if drivers want to sign up for what’s called usage-based insurance — where rates are set based on monitoring of their driving habits — it’s easy to collect that data wirelessly from their cars.
But in other instances, something much sneakier has happened. Modern cars are internet-enabled, allowing access to services like navigation, roadside assistance and car apps that drivers can connect to their vehicles to locate them or unlock them remotely. In recent years, automakers, including GM, Honda, Kia and Hyundai, have started offering optional features in their connected-car apps that rate people’s driving. Some drivers may not realize that if they turn on these features, the car companies then give information about how they drive to data brokers like LexisNexis.
Automakers and data brokers that have partnered to collect detailed driving data from millions of Americans say they have drivers’ permission to do so. But the existence of these partnerships is nearly invisible to drivers, whose consent is obtained in fine print and murky privacy policies that few read.
Especially troubling is that some drivers with vehicles made by GM say they were tracked even when they did not turn on the feature — called OnStar Smart Driver — and that their insurance rates went up as a result.
“GM’s OnStar Smart Driver service is optional to customers,” a GM spokesperson, Malorie Lucich, said. “Customer benefits include learning more about their safe driving behaviors or vehicle performance that, with their consent, may be used to obtain insurance quotes. Customers can also unenroll from Smart Driver at any time.”
Even for those who opt in, the risks are far from clear. I have a GM car, a Chevrolet. I went through the enrollment process for Smart Driver; there was no warning or prominent disclosure that any third party would get access to my driving data.
“I am surprised,” said Frank Pasquale, a law professor at Cornell University. “Because it’s not within the reasonable expectation of the average consumer, it should certainly be an industry practice to prominently disclose that is happening.”
Policymakers have expressed concern about the collection of sensitive information from consumers’ cars. California’s privacy regulator is currently investigating automakers’ data collection practices. Last month, Sen. Edward Markey of Massachusetts also urged the Federal Trade Commission to investigate.
“The ‘internet of things’ is really intruding into the lives of all Americans,” Markey said in an interview. “If there is now a collusion between automakers and insurance companies using data collected from an unknowing car owner that then raises their insurance rates, that’s, from my perspective, a potential per se violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.”
That is the federal law that prohibits unfair and deceptive business practices that harm consumers.
‘Smart Driver’
Dahl shared his experience on an online forum for Chevy Bolt enthusiasts, on a thread where other people expressed shock to find that LexisNexis had their driving data. Warnings about the tracking are scattered across online discussion boards dedicated to vehicles manufactured by GM — including Corvettes, a sports car designed for racking up “acceleration events.” (One driver lamented having data collected during a “track day,” while testing out the Corvette’s limits on a professional racetrack.)
Numerous people on the forums complained about spiking premiums as a result. A Cadillac driver in Palm Beach County, Florida, who asked not to be named because he is considering a lawsuit against GM, said he was denied auto insurance by seven companies in December. When he asked an agent why, she advised him to pull his LexisNexis report. He discovered six months of his driving activity, including many instances of hard braking and hard accelerating, as well as some speeding.
“I don’t know the definition of hard brake. My passenger’s head isn’t hitting the dash,” he said. “Same with acceleration. I’m not peeling out. I’m not sure how the car defines that. I don’t feel I’m driving aggressively or dangerously.”
When he finally obtained car insurance, through a private broker, it was double what he had previously been paying.
The Cadillac owner, Dahl and the drivers on the forums had all been enrolled in OnStar Smart Driver. OnStar is GM’s Internet-connected service for its cars and Smart Driver is a free, gamified feature within GM’s connected car apps (all part of OnStar, but branded MyChevrolet, MyBuick, MyGMC and MyCadillac).
Smart Driver can “help you become a better driver,” according to a corporate website, by tracking and rating seat belt use and driving habits. In a recent promotional campaign, an Instagram influencer used Smart Driver in a competition with her husband to find out who could collect the most digital badges, such as “brake genius” and “limit hero.”
In response to questions from The New York Times, GM confirmed that it shares “select insights” about hard braking, hard accelerating, speeding over 80 mph and drive time of Smart Driver enrollees with LexisNexis and another data broker that works with the insurance industry called Verisk.
Customers turn on Smart Driver, said Lucich, the G.M. spokesperson, “at the time of purchase or through their vehicle mobile app.” It is possible that GM drivers who insisted they didn’t opt in were unknowingly signed up at the dealership, where salespeople can receive bonuses for successful enrollment of customers in OnStar services, including Smart Driver, according to a company manual.
The Cadillac owner in Florida said he had not heard of Smart Driver and never noticed it in the MyCadillac app. He reviewed the paperwork he signed at the dealership when he bought his Cadillac in the fall of 2021 and found no mention of signing up for it.
“When a customer accepts the user terms and privacy statement (which are separately reviewed in the enrollment flow), they consent to sharing their data with third parties,” Lucich wrote in an email, pointing to OnStar’s privacy statement.
But that statement’s section on “third-party business relationships” does not mention Smart Driver. It names SiriusXM as a company GM might share data with, not LexisNexis Risk Solutions, which GM has partnered with since 2019.
Jen Caltrider, a researcher at Mozilla who reviewed the privacy policies for more than 25 car brands last year, said that drivers have little idea about what they are consenting to when it comes to data collection. She said it is “impossible for consumers to try and understand” the legalese-filled policies for car companies, their connected services and their apps. She called cars “a privacy nightmare.”
“The car companies are really good at trying to link these features to safety and say they are all about safety,” Caltrider said. “They’re about making money.”
Neither the car companies nor the data brokers deny that they are engaged in this practice, though automakers say the main purpose of their driver feedback programs is to help people develop safer driving habits.
After LexisNexis and Verisk get data from consumers’ cars, they sell information about how people are driving to insurance companies. To access it, the insurance companies must get consent from the drivers — say, when they go out shopping for car insurance and sign off on boilerplate language that gives insurance companies the right to pull third-party reports. (Insurance companies commonly ask for access to a consumer’s credit or risk reports, though they are barred from doing so in California, Massachusetts, Michigan and Hawaii.)
An employee familiar with GM’s Smart Driver said the company’s annual revenue from the program is in the low millions of dollars.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions, which retains consumers’ driving data for six months, has “strict privacy and security policies designed to ensure that data is not accessed or used impermissibly,” the company said in a statement.
Verisk provides insurers with trip data and a risk score “approved by insurance regulators in 46 states and the District of Columbia,” said a spokesperson, Amy Ebenstein. Automakers that Verisk gets data from “provide their customers notice and obtain appropriate consents,” she said.
Some drivers who had Smart Driver turned on, though, said they did not even realize they were enrolled until they saw warnings on online forums and then checked their app. They quickly unenrolled themselves by turning off Smart Driver in their car app.
Omri Ben-Shahar, a law professor at the University of Chicago, said he was in favor of usage-based insurance — where insurers monitor mileage and driving habits to determine premiums — because people who are knowingly monitored are better drivers. “People drive differently,” he said. “The impact on safety is enormous.”
But he was troubled, he said, by “stealth enrollment” in programs with “surprising and potentially injurious” data collection. There is no public safety benefit if people don’t know that how they drive will affect how much they pay for insurance.
‘Real-World Driving Behavior’
General Motors is not the only automaker sharing driving behavior. Kia, Subaru and Mitsubishi also contribute to the LexisNexis “Telematics Exchange,” a “portal for sharing consumer-approved connected car data with insurers.” As of 2022, the exchange, according to a LexisNexis news release, has “real-world driving behavior” collected “from over 10 million vehicles.”
Verisk also claims to have access to data from millions of vehicles and partnerships with major automakers, including Ford, Honda and Hyundai.
Two of these automakers said they were not sharing data or only limited data. Subaru shares odometer data with LexisNexis for Subaru customers who turn on Starlink and authorize that data be shared “when shopping for auto insurance,” said a spokesperson, Dominick Infante.
Ford “does not transmit any connected vehicle data to either partner,” said a spokesperson, Alan Hall, but partnered with them “to explore ways to support customers” who want to take part in usage-based insurance programs. Ford will share driving behavior from a car directly with an insurance company, he said, when a customer gives explicit consent via an in-vehicle touch screen.
The other automakers all have optional driver-coaching features in their apps — Kia, Mitsubishi and Hyundai have “Driving Score,” while Honda and Acura have “Driver Feedback” — that, when turned on, collect information about people’s mileage, speed, braking and acceleration that is then shared with LexisNexis or Verisk, the companies said in response to questions from the Times.
But that would not be evident or obvious to drivers using these features. In fact, before a Honda owner activates Driver Feedback, a screen titled “Respect for your Privacy” assures drivers that “your data will never be shared without your consent.” But it is shared — with Verisk, a fact disclosed in a more than 2,000-word “terms and conditions” screen that a driver needs to click “accept” on. (Kia, by contrast, does highlight its relationship with LexisNexis Risk Solutions on its website, and a spokesperson said LexisNexis can’t share driving score data of Kia participants with insurers without additional consent.)
Drivers who have realized what is happening are not happy. The Palm Beach Cadillac owner said he would never buy another car from GM. He is planning to sell his Cadillac.
______
How to Find Out What Your Car Is Doing
— See the data your car is capable of collecting with this tool: https://vehicleprivacyreport.com/.
— Check your connected car app, if you use one, to see if you are enrolled in one of these programs.
— Do an online search for “privacy request form” alongside the name of your vehicle’s manufacturer. There should be instructions on how to request information your car company has about you.
— Request your LexisNexis report: https://consumer.risk.lexisnexis.com/consumer
— Request your Verisk report: https://fcra.verisk.com/#/
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Internet; Disclosure; Consumers; Insurance companies; Data collection; Insurance rates; Telematics; Customers; Privacy; Automobile insurance; Consent; Vehicles; Automobile dealers; Insurance industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Disclosure Consumers Insurance companies Insurance rates Customers Automobile insurance Automobile dealers Insurance industry

Location: New York; United States--US; Florida

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: LexisNexis Group; NAICS: 513140, 516210, 519290; Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150; Name: OnStar; NAICS: 334290, 561621

Identifier / keyword: Florida; Palm Beach County (Fla); General Motors; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Customer Relations; Accidents And Safety; Newspapers; Consumer Reviews; Bolt Financial Inc; University Of Chicago; Kia Motors Corp; Pasquale, Frank; Computer Security; Inventions And Patents; Sirius Xm Radio Inc; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Massachusetts; Hyundai Motor Co; Privacy; Federal Trade Commission; United States; Automobile Safety Features And Defects; Mobile Application s; Automobile Insurance And Liability; Consumer Behavior; Corporations; Interest Rates; California; Automobiles; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Ford Motor Co; Instagram Inc; Habits And Routines (Behavior); Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Wages And Salaries; Michigan; Computers And The Internet; Subaru; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Wireless Communications; Law And Legislation; Markey, Edward J; Cadillac Division Of General Motors Corp; Factories And Manufacturing; Data Mining And Database Marketing; Onstar Corp; Mozilla Foundation; Brakes; Acura Division Of Honda Motor Co; Palm Beach (Fla); Cornell University; Hawaii; Business; Colleges And Universities; Lexisnexis Group

Title: Automakers Are Sharing Consumers’ Driving Behavior With Insurance Companies

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 11, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-11T22:28:18Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2955027831

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/automakers-are-sharing-consumers-driving-behavior/docview/2955027831/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China's Electric Vehicles Are Going to Hit Detroit Like a Wrecking Ball: [Op-Ed]

Author: Robinson, Meyer

Publication info: Robinson, Meyer. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-electric-vehicles-are-going-hit-detroit/docview/2934053393/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It happened very quickly, so fast that you might not have noticed it. Over the past few months, America's Big Three automakers -- Ford, General Motors and Stellantis, the oddly named company that owns Dodge, Chrysler and Jeep -- landed in big trouble.
I realize this may sound silly. Ford, General Motors and Stellantis made billions in profit last year, even after a long strike by autoworkers, and all three companies are forecasting a big 2024. But recently, the Big Three found themselves outmaneuvered and missing their goals for electric vehicle sales at the same time that a crop of new affordable, electrified foreign cars appeared, ready to flood the global market.
About a decade ago, America bailed out the Big Three and swore it wouldn't do that again. But the federal government is going to have to help the Big Three and the rest of the U.S. car market again very soon. And it has to do it in the right way -- now -- to avoid the next auto bailout.
The biggest threat to the Big Three comes from a new crop of Chinese automakers, especially BYD, which specialize in producing plug-in hybrid and fully electric vehicles. BYD's growth is astounding: It sold three million electrified vehicles last year, more than any other company, and it now has enough production capacity in China to manufacture four million cars a year. But that isn't enough: It's building factories in Brazil, Thailand, Hungary and Uzbekistan, to produce even more cars, and it may soon add Indonesia and Mexico to that list. A deluge of electric vehicles is coming.
BYD's cars deliver great value at prices that beat anything coming out of the West. This month BYD unveiled a plug-in hybrid that gets decent all-electric range and will retail for just over $ 11,000. How can it do that? Like other Chinese manufacturers, BYD benefits from its home country's lower labor costs, but this explains only some of its success. The fact is that BYD and other Chinese automakers like Geely, which owns Volvo Cars and Polestar brands, are very good at making cars. They have leveraged China's dominance of the battery industry and automated production lines to create a juggernaut.
The Chinese automakers, especially BYD, represent something new in the world. They signal that China's decades-long accretion of economic complexity is almost complete: Whereas the country once made toys and clothes and then made electronics and batteries, now it makes cars and airplanes. What's more, BYD and other Chinese automakers are becoming virtually global car companies, capable of manufacturing electric cars that can compete directly with gas-burning cars on cost.
That is, on the surface, a good thing. Electric cars need to get cheaper and more abundant if we are to have any hope of meeting our global climate goals. But it poses some immediate and thorny problems for American policymakers. After BYD announced its $ 11,000 plug-in hybrid, it posted on the Chinese social media platform Weibo that "the price will make petrol car assemblers tremble." The problem is many of those gasoline-car makers are American.
Ford and GM plotted an ambitious E.V. transition three years ago, but it didn't take long for them to stumble. Last year Ford lost more than $ 64,000 on every E.V. that it sold. Since October, it has delayed the opening of one of its new E.V. battery plants, and GM has fumbled the start of its new Ultium battery platform, which is meant to be the foundation for all of its future electric vehicles. Ford and GM have notched some wins here (the Mustang Mach-E and Chevrolet Bolt are modest hits), but they aren't competing at the level of Tesla and Hyundai -- companies that operate factories in less union-friendly states in the Sun Belt.
Jim Farley, Ford's chief executive, recently disclosed that the company had a secret development team building a cheap, affordable electric car to compete with Tesla and BYD. But producing electric vehicles profitably is an organizational skill, and like any skill, it takes time, effort and money to develop. Even if Ford and GM now bust out innovative new designs, they will lag their competition in executing them well.
The other looming problem for Ford and General Motors is that their balance sheets, while superficially robust, conceal a structural vulnerability. While the two companies have done generally well in recent years, their billions in profits have overwhelmingly flowed from selling a relatively small number of vehicles to a small group of people. Specifically, Ford's and GM's earnings rest primarily on selling pickup trucks, S.U.V.s and crossovers to affluent North Americans.
In other words, if Americans' appetite for trucks and S.U.V.s falters, then Ford and GM will be in real trouble. That creates a strategic quandary for them. In the coming years, these companies must cross a bridge from one business model to another: They must use their robust truck and S.U.V. earnings to subsidize their growing electric vehicle business and learn how to make E.V.s profitably. If they can make it across this bridge quickly, they will survive. But if their S.U.V. profits crumble before their E.V. business is ready, they will fall into the chasm and perish.
That's why the flood of cheap Chinese electric vehicles poses such a big problem: It could wash away Ford and GM's bridge before they have finished building it. Even a wave of competitive electric cars from the Sun Belt automakers -- like Kia's EV9, a three-row S.U.V. -- could eat away at their S.U.V. profits before they're ready.
Perhaps the Big Three deserve destruction; after all, they hooked us on S.U.V.s in the first place and then fell behind in the E.V. race. But letting them die is not a tenable political option for President Biden. One goal of his administration is to show not only that decarbonization can work for the American economy but also that it can revive moribund fossil-fuel-dependent communities in the Rust Belt. Mr. Biden has also fought for and won the endorsement of the United Auto Workers, which just cemented a generous new contract with the Big Three and now needs them to thrive.
He has reason, in other words, to help the Big Three even before you get to the harsh electoral realities: The legacy auto industry employs more people in Michigan than in any other state, and Mr. Biden's path to re-election all but requires him to win Michigan in November. (Recall that Donald Trump won Michigan by just under 11,000 votes in 2016.) Mr. Biden cannot allow the possibility of another China shock to hit the Midwest's auto economy. So what should he do?
The good news is that Congress has already done some of the work for him. You may have heard about the Inflation Reduction Act's generous subsidies for domestic electric car production. Can it help here? It can, and it will, but the act alone is not nearly big enough to insulate these companies from the threat posed by Chinese E.V.s. Geely is preparing to sell the small, all-electric Volvo EX30 S.U.V. in the United States for $ 35,000. That price -- which seemingly includes the cost of a 25 percent tariff, first imposed by the Trump administration -- rivals what American automakers are capable of doing today, even with the Inflation Reduction Act's subsidies.
Subsidies most likely won't be enough; Mr. Biden will need to impose trade restrictions. But here's where it gets messy. The case for protecting the American auto market from Chinese E.V.s is obvious and politically essential but also highly troublesome. In the short term, American automakers -- even the homegrown electric-only carmakers like Tesla and Rivian -- must be shielded from a wave of cheap cars. But in the long term, Mr. Biden must be careful not to cordon off the American car market from the rest of the world, turning the United States into an automotive backwater of bloated, expensive, gas-guzzling vehicles. The Chinese carmakers are the first real competition that the global car industry has faced in decades, and American companies must be exposed to some of that threat, for their own good. That means they must feel the chill of death on their necks and be forced to rise and face this challenge.
This could be done in a number of ways. One is by suggesting to American companies that any import restrictions imposed on Chinese cars in the next few years won't necessarily be permanent. That might encourage American companies to learn everything they can from their new Chinese competition, getting over their hubris and recognizing that Chinese companies now understand aspects of E.V. manufacturing better than their American counterparts. That means that Republican lawmakers, in particular, must recognize that climate-friendly technologies are the future of global industry. Mr. Trump is threatening that, if elected, he would gut the Inflation Reduction Act, even though it's full of policies meant to help America compete with Chinese E.V.s. There would be no faster way to destroy the U.S. car industry as a global force.
What the United States is trying to do is really hard. We want to preserve the economic geography and institutions of our old fossil-fuel-powered economy while retooling it to work in a new zero-carbon world. There's no small amount of irony in the fact that all those involved here -- Democrats, Republicans, major automakers -- resent China for achieving what was once a goal of, well, hippies and environmentalists: making electric cars popular and cheap. But if they've done it, we can do it, too. It will take grit and good-faith effort. We should assume that Ford and General Motors will be competing with BYD and Geely for decades to come, and we should relish that fight.
Robinson Meyer is a contributing Opinion writer and the founding executive editor of Heatmap, a media company focused on climate change.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , X and Threads .
Above, a Ford assembly plant in Wayne, Mich., in October. Below, a Stellantis plant in Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIC ANTAYA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Threats; Electric vehicles; Trucks; Automobile industry; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Manufacturing; Corporate profits; Trade restrictions; Subsidies

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Manufacturing Corporate profits Trade restrictions Subsidies

Location: United States--US; China; Michigan

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/27/opinion/gm-ford-electric-vehicles.html

Title: China's Electric Vehicles Are Going to Hit Detroit Like a Wrecking Ball:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 4, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2934053393

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-electric-vehicles-are-going-hit-detroit/docview/2934053393/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

VW Pushing E.V.s to Lift Sales in U.S.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vw-pushing-e-v-s-lift-sales-u/docview/2931485086/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It and other foreign automakers are trying to exploit upheaval caused by new technology to gain market share from their dominant rivals.
Probably only Americans of a certain age remember when the Volkswagen Beetle was the best-selling imported car in the United States and the hippest ride to a Grateful Dead concert was a Volkswagen Microbus.
Volkswagen is trying to tap some of that nostalgia in its latest push to regain the status and sales it enjoyed in the United States during the Beetle's and Microbus's heydays in the 1960s. But this time it hopes its top models will be electric.
The German carmaker is second only to Toyota globally but is a niche player in the United States. Part of its plan to revive its fortunes here is to lean on a new electric model that resembles the Microbus, the ID.Buzz, and to revive the Scout brand with a line of electric pickups and sport utility vehicles.
Last week, as giant earth movers kicked up clouds of dust, Volkswagen executives and local officials gathered near Columbia, S.C., to inaugurate the site of a factory that will build vehicles bearing the Scout badge for the first time since 1980.
Volkswagen is one of several foreign automakers that see electric cars and the upheaval they are causing as a way to challenge the dominant players in the United States. Volkswagen, which also owns Audi, Porsche, Bentley and Lamborghini, is aiming to at least double its market share in the United States by the end of the decade from a meager 4 percent now.
"This market is turning electric, and everybody's starting from scratch," Arno Antlitz, the chief financial officer of Volkswagen, said in an interview. "This is our unique opportunity to grow."
Electric vehicles have already shaken the industry rankings, emboldening Volkswagen and other foreign automakers. Battery-powered S.U.V.s and sedans helped Hyundai Motor and its sister brand Kia overtake Stellantis, the maker of Jeep, Dodge, Chrysler and Ram, as the fourth-largest carmaker by sales in the United States last year.
"Electric vehicles are helping our brand to be seen as a technology leader," said José Muñoz, chief operating officer of Hyundai. They also attract a better-educated, more affluent customer than has been the case for the South Korean company's gasoline vehicles, he said in an interview.
The list of companies that dominate electric car sales looks a lot different from the top rankings for overall U.S. sales, hinting at a future when a different group of companies rule.
The top five companies in the United States for all engine types are General Motors, Toyota, Ford Motor, Hyundai and Stellantis. In electric cars, Tesla is No. 1 by a wide margin, followed by Hyundai, G.M., Ford and Volkswagen. Toyota is a minor player in electric cars.
"Just because you've been around for 120 years doesn't mean you're going to have anything in this new market," said Steven Center, the chief operating officer of Kia America.
Volvo Cars is another company hoping to take advantage of the changes wrought by electric vehicles. The Swedish carmaker, which is majority owned by Geely Holding Group of China, reported a 26 percent increase in U.S. sales last year.
Much of that growth came from hybrids that have a gasoline engine and can travel shorter distances on batteries. But Mike Cottone, president of Volvo Car for the United States and Canada, said he saw hybrids as a pathway to fully electric vehicles.
Later this year, Volvo will begin selling a Chinese-made, all-electric compact S.U.V., the EX30, which will start at $ 35,000. The company will also begin delivering the EX90, a seven-seat S.U.V. that is made in South Carolina and will start around $ 80,000.
Especially for luxury car buyers, Mr. Cottone said, "there's a lot of room for growth in the E.V. segment over the next few years."
Volkswagen has tried and failed since the 1970s to become a bigger presence in the United States, and analysts are skeptical that this time will be different. "I've seen Volkswagen set these goals before," said Michelle Krebs, executive analyst at Cox Automotive.
The established carmakers will not be pushovers. G.M. and Ford are also investing heavily in electric vehicles, while Toyota has said it will start producing a large electric S.U.V. in Kentucky next year.
Ms. Krebs pointed out that auto sales in the U.S. were growing slowly, making the fight for market share largely a zero-sum game. "There's this little bit of growth that everybody is going after," she said.
Volkswagen's last big push in the United States ended in scandal. In the early 2000s, the company tried to sell Americans on cars with "clean diesel" engines. It advertised the fuel, which was used in European passenger cars much more than in American cars, as more environmentally friendly than gasoline.
But the campaign collapsed in 2015 when U.S. regulators discovered that Volkswagen had used software in the vehicles to cheat on emissions tests. In reality, the cars polluted as much as long-haul trucks.
The scandal had one benefit for Volkswagen. It prompted the company to invest early in electric vehicle technology and build cars that were designed from the ground up to run on batteries, rather than make awkward modifications to gasoline models. In Europe, Volkswagen's various electric brands together outsell Tesla, according to Schmidt Automotive Research.
The person responsible for doubling Volkswagen sales in the United States is Pablo Di Si, president of Volkswagen Group of America. Mr. Di Si, originally from Argentina, said he planned to use the same strategy he deployed while overseeing the company's operations in Brazil, where Volkswagen's market share rose to more than 16 percent from 9 percent.
"You look at the segments that you think are going to be successful 10 years from now," Mr. Di Si said in an interview. "What are your gaps in the product portfolio? And then you start adding products for those particular markets."
In the United States, he said, that is likely to include gasoline cars and hybrids as well as all-electric vehicles. Volkswagen plans to import the ID.7, an electric sedan, and the ID.Buzz. Mr. Di Si hinted that there might also be a new electric vehicle that references the design of the Beetle. The last version of that car sold in the United States was the 2019 Beetle.
Volkswagen is building a $ 5 billion factory in Ontario to supply batteries to its factories in Chattanooga, Tenn., and Puebla, Mexico, which together will produce at least 80 percent of the company's cars sold in North America. That will help buyers of cars from its Volkswagen, Audi and other brands qualify for federal tax credits of up to $ 7,500 per car.
Scout will fill a major gap in Volkswagen's portfolio: pickups, among the most popular vehicles in the United States. By reviving Scout, which was one of the first passenger vehicles that could navigate rough dirt tracks as well as city streets, Volkswagen hopes to attract buyers who typically buy off-road-capable vehicles from U.S. brands like Chevrolet, Ford and Jeep.
The South Carolina factory will underscore the made-in-America vibe when the first Scouts go on sale in late 2026. Volkswagen inherited the Scout brand when the company's truck subsidiary, Traton, acquired Navistar, a U.S. company previously known as International Harvester, in 2021.
The new Scouts may borrow some parts used in other Volkswagen vehicles, company executives said, but the design will be distinct from existing vehicles like the electric ID.4 S.U.V. made in Chattanooga. Scout plans to reveal prototypes this year.
A stronger presence in the United States is "a strategic necessity," Scott Keogh, the chief executive of Volkswagen's Scout Motors division, said in South Carolina last week.
Outside the United States, Volkswagen is a behemoth, with a 26 percent share of the European market and 15 percent in China. But the company is under severe pressure in China, where sales of electric vehicles have been growing fast, allowing BYD and other Chinese carmakers to gain market share from foreign automakers. Volkswagen needs growth in the United States to compensate.
Volkswagen "wants to have a strong global footprint," Mr. Keogh said, "not have an isolated footprint, where it's only sitting strong in one region."
Photograph A ceremony this month near Columbia, S.C., at the site of a factory that will build electric pickups and S.U.V.s under the revived Scout brand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY COLLINS/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Volkswagen is trying to tap into its history of hip cars, like the Beetle, above, with an electric model, the ID.Buzz, that resembles the old Microbus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARNEY INGOGLIA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Automobile industry; Chief operating officers; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Market shares; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Chief operating officers Automobile sales Market shares Factories

Location: South Carolina; China; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/20/business/vw-electric-vehicles-us.html

Title: VW Pushing E.V.s to Lift Sales in U.S.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 26, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2931485086

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vw-pushing-e-v-s-lift-sales-u/docview/2931485086/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Volkswagen Leans on Electric Vehicles and Nostalgia to Grow in U.S.

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/volkswagen-leans-on-electric-vehicles-nostalgia/docview/2931386956/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
COLUMBIA, S.C. — Probably only Americans of a certain age remember when the Volkswagen Beetle was the bestselling imported car in the United States and the hippest ride to a Grateful Dead concert was a Volkswagen Microbus.
Volkswagen is trying to tap some of that nostalgia in its latest push to regain the status and sales it enjoyed in the United States during the Beetle’s and Microbus’ heydays in the 1960s. But this time it hopes its top models will be electric.
The German carmaker is second only to Toyota globally but is a niche player in the U.S. Part of its plan to revive its fortunes here is to lean on a new electric model that resembles the Microbus, the ID.Buzz, and to revive the Scout brand with a line of electric pickups and sport utility vehicles.
This month, as giant earth movers kicked up clouds of dust, Volkswagen executives and local officials gathered near Columbia, South Carolina, to inaugurate the site of a factory that will build vehicles bearing the Scout badge for the first time since 1980.
Volkswagen is one of several foreign automakers that see electric cars and the upheaval they are causing as a way to challenge the dominant players in the U.S. Volkswagen, which also owns Audi, Porsche, Bentley and Lamborghini, is aiming to at least double its market share in the U.S. by the end of the decade from a meager 4% now.
“This market is turning electric, and everybody’s starting from scratch,” Arno Antlitz, chief financial officer of Volkswagen, said in an interview. “This is our unique opportunity to grow.”
Electric vehicles have already shaken the industry rankings, emboldening Volkswagen and other foreign automakers. Battery-powered SUVs and sedans helped Hyundai Motor Co. and its sister brand Kia overtake Stellantis, the maker of Jeep, Dodge, Chrysler and Ram, as the fourth-largest carmaker by sales in the U.S. last year.
“Electric vehicles are helping our brand to be seen as a technology leader,” said José Muñoz, chief operating officer of Hyundai. They also attract a better-educated, more affluent customer than has been the case for the South Korean company’s gasoline vehicles, he said in an interview.
The list of companies that dominate electric car sales looks a lot different from the top rankings for overall U.S. sales, hinting at a future when a different group of companies rule.
The top five companies in the U.S. for all engine types are General Motors, Toyota, Ford Motor Co., Hyundai and Stellantis. In electric cars, Tesla is No. 1 by a wide margin, followed by Hyundai, GM, Ford and Volkswagen. Toyota is a minor player in electric cars.
“Just because you’ve been around for 120 years doesn’t mean you’re going to have anything in this new market,” said Steven Center, chief operating officer of Kia America.
Volvo Cars is another company hoping to take advantage of the changes wrought by electric vehicles. The Swedish carmaker, which is majority owned by Geely Holding Group of China, reported a 26% increase in U.S. sales last year.
Much of that growth came from hybrids that have a gasoline engine and can travel shorter distances on batteries. But Mike Cottone, president of Volvo Cars for the U.S. and Canada, said he saw hybrids as a pathway to fully electric vehicles.
Later this year, Volvo will begin selling a Chinese-made, all-electric compact SUV, the EX30, which will start at $35,000. The company will also begin delivering the EX90, a seven-seat SUV that is made in South Carolina and will start around $80,000.
Especially for luxury car buyers, Cottone said, “there’s a lot of room for growth in the EV segment over the next few years.”
Volkswagen has tried and failed since the 1970s to become a bigger presence in the U.S., and analysts are skeptical that this time will be different. “I’ve seen Volkswagen set these goals before,” said Michelle Krebs, executive analyst at Cox Automotive.
The established carmakers will not be pushovers. GM and Ford are also investing heavily in electric vehicles, while Toyota has said it will start producing a large electric SUV in Kentucky next year.
Krebs pointed out that auto sales in the U.S. were growing slowly, making the fight for market share largely a zero-sum game. “There’s this little bit of growth that everybody is going after,” she said.
Volkswagen’s last big push in the U.S. ended in scandal. In the early 2000s, the company tried to sell Americans on cars with “clean diesel” engines. It advertised the fuel, which was used in European passenger cars much more than in American cars, as more environmentally friendly than gasoline.
But the campaign collapsed in 2015 when U.S. regulators discovered that Volkswagen had used software in the vehicles to cheat on emissions tests. In reality, the cars polluted as much as long-haul trucks.
The scandal had one benefit for Volkswagen. It prompted the company to invest early in electric vehicle technology and build cars that were designed from the ground up to run on batteries, rather than make awkward modifications to gasoline models. In Europe, Volkswagen’s various electric brands together outsell Tesla, according to Schmidt Automotive Research.
The person responsible for doubling Volkswagen sales in the United States is Pablo Di Si, president of Volkswagen Group of America. Di Si, originally from Argentina, said he planned to use the same strategy he deployed while overseeing the company’s operations in Brazil, where Volkswagen’s market share rose to more than 16% from 9%.
“You look at the segments that you think are going to be successful 10 years from now,” Di Si said in an interview. “What are your gaps in the product portfolio? And then you start adding products for those particular markets.”
In the U.S., he said, that is likely to include gasoline cars and hybrids as well as all-electric vehicles. Volkswagen plans to import the ID.7, an electric sedan, and the ID.Buzz. Di Si hinted that there might also be a new electric vehicle that references the design of the Beetle. The last version of that car sold in the United States was the 2019 Beetle.
Volkswagen is building a $5 billion factory in Ontario to supply batteries to its factories in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Puebla, Mexico, which together will produce at least 80% of the company’s cars sold in North America. That will help buyers of cars from its Volkswagen, Audi and other brands qualify for federal tax credits of up to $7,500 per car.
Scout will fill a major gap in Volkswagen’s portfolio: pickups, among the most popular vehicles in the U.S. By reviving Scout, which was one of the first passenger vehicles that could navigate rough dirt tracks as well as city streets, Volkswagen hopes to attract buyers who typically buy off-road-capable vehicles from U.S. brands such as Chevrolet, Ford and Jeep.
The South Carolina factory will underscore the made-in-America vibe when the first Scouts go on sale in late 2026. Volkswagen inherited the Scout brand when the company’s truck subsidiary, Traton, acquired Navistar, a U.S. company previously known as International Harvester, in 2021.
The new Scouts may borrow some parts used in other Volkswagen vehicles, company executives said, but the design will be distinct from existing vehicles such as the electric ID.4 SUV made in Chattanooga. Scout plans to reveal prototypes this year.
A stronger presence in the United States is “a strategic necessity,” Scott Keogh, CEO of Volkswagen’s Scout Motors division, said in South Carolina recently.
Outside the U.S., Volkswagen is a behemoth, with a 26% share of the European market and 15% in China. But the company is under severe pressure in China, where sales of electric vehicles have been growing fast, allowing BYD and other Chinese carmakers to gain market share from foreign automakers. Volkswagen needs growth in the U.S. to compensate.
Volkswagen “wants to have a strong global footprint,” Keogh said, “not have an isolated footprint, where it’s only sitting strong in one region.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Chief operating officers; Electric vehicles; Sport utility vehicles; Automobile industry; Automobile sales; Market shares; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Chief operating officers Automobile industry Automobile sales Market shares Factories

Location: South Carolina; New York; United States--US; China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Hyundai Motor Co; Canada; Ontario (Canada); Pollution; Grateful Dead; Brazil; Mexico; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Air Pollution; United States; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; International Trade And World Market; Kentucky; Automobili Lamborghini Spa; Dodge Division Of Fiat Chrysler; For d Motor Co; Byd Co Ltd; Automobiles; Volvo Car Corp; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Keogh, Scott; Ab Volvo; General Motors; Chattanooga (Tenn); Europe; Germany; Columbia (Tenn); South Korea; Bentley Motors Ltd; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact And Microcars); Toyota Motor Corp; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; South Carolina; Sweden; International Relations; Engines; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Columbia (Sc); Factories And Manufacturing; Volkswagen Ag; Traton Se; Two Thousands (Decade); International Harvester Co; Puebla (Mexico); Porsche Ag; Stellantis Nv; Batteries; North America; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Kia Motors Corp; Ram Division Of Chrysler Corp; Tennessee; Fuel Emissions (Transportation); Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Luxury Goods And Services; Southern States (Us); Argentina

Title: Volkswagen Leans on Electric Vehicles and Nostalgia to Grow in U.S.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publicationyear: 2024

Publication date: Feb 25, 2024

Dateline: 2024-02-25T22:37:07Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2931386956

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/volkswagen-leans-on-electric-vehicles-nostalgia/docview/2931386956/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Call Letters That Say It With Pride: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Piepenburg, Erik

Publication info: Piepenburg, Erik. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/call-letters-that-say-with-pride/docview/2925371334/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: KGAY in Palm Springs is geared toward Gen X and older gay men who enjoy Rihanna but still worship Donna Summer.
Fog clouded the San Jacinto Mountains recently as Brad Fuhr approached the headquarters of KGAY, a radio station in an undistinguished Palm Springs, California, strip mall. Fuhr, the station's chief executive, was tuned to KGAY in his all-electric Volvo, and the morning's soundtrack included "Bad of the Heart," George Lamond's 1990 freestyle cri de coeur about getting dumped, and "Lucky Star," Madonna's 1983 dance hit of bouncy adoration.
KGAY's call letters aren't a fluke but a savvy marketing tool. While there are streaming stations devoted to gay audiences (like iHeart's Pride Radio and Gaydio out of Britain) and gay-themed talk shows and dance formats have thrived on commercial and nonprofit radio for decades, KGAY is still one of a kind. It's the only terrestrial radio station in America geared toward L.G.B.T.Q. listeners and their allies, where gay personalities broadcast in person, "WKRP in Cincinnati"-style, at least part time. (There's WGAY, a "party station" in the Florida Keys, but it doesn't market itself as gay.)
KGAY covers the Coachella Valley with its FM signal at 106.5 and is simulcast with KGAY AM 1270; it can be streamed globally at KGAYPalmSprings.com. Its two full-time D.J.s are Chris Shebel, the old-school, no-nonsense program director and weekday afternoon personality, and the wisecracking John Taylor, who covers mornings. Three other D.J.s -- Eric Ornelas, Galaxy and ModGirl -- provide the station with homemade mix shows that play around the clock.
Born on Dec. 25, 2018, KGAY replaced KVGH, an oldies station, with a playlist that rotates over 900 pop songs, disco anthems and dance remixes from the '70s through the latest releases.
"It's an entertaining, mass-appeal radio station first," said Fuhr, 65.
KGAY serves primarily the clubby slice of the queer music pie. There's no Barbra or Bikini Kill, no American songbook showstoppers or lesbian breakup ballads. There's no rap or country, although it does play Lil Nas X and dance versions of songs by Dolly Parton, Tammy Wynette and other country divas.
Shebel said the station mirrors the tastes of its core audience: gay men of Gen X age and older who enjoy Rihanna and Lady Gaga but still worship Donna Summer and Crystal Waters. That's a snapshot of way-gay Palm Springs, where the latest census data shows the population of about 45,000 to be generally white, well off and male. About 30-50 percent are L.G.B.T.Q., although those numbers are more anecdotal than official, and about a third is 65 and over.
"It's OK to listen to our radio station if you're 60 or 70," said Shebel, who is 69 and married to Oscar Luis Uvillus, the reigning Mr. Palm Springs Leather. "Just because you're old doesn't mean you're dead."
Indeed, Palm Springs may be the only American market that can sustain a traditional radio station that primarily plays songs that older gay guys like -- the men with still-fresh memories of music that "left them all on the dance floor with heads back, eyes nearly closed, in the ecstasy of saints receiving the stigmata," as Andrew Holleran put it in his landmark 1978 gay novel "Dancer From the Dance." The club has long been a gay second home, a safe place to find sex, friendship, anonymous camaraderie and love.
Lucas Hilderbrand, the author of the new book "The Bars Are Ours," a history of gay men's bars since the 1960s, said it's no surprise that KGAY would be popular with generations that listened to -- and made mixtapes from! -- honest-to-God radio. These were also the last generations to come of gay age with no choice but to meet other gay men by cruising, even during the worst years of the AIDS crisis.
"People who grew up with these experiences of going out have a sense of having lost those things, a nostalgia for a time in their life when they went out more," he said. Listening to KGAY, he added, quenches "a desire for a sense of connection that was in person, that was live and public."
KGAY's offices are so modestly appointed that a visitor might think they've wandered into an insurance company until they notice the rainbow ombré, KGAY-branded rug and hear Gloria Gaynor on the speakers. A framed gold record on the wall was given to Fuhr for helping break Men at Work's debut album in the early '80s when he worked at WSPT in Stevens Point, Wis. (He and Shebel met there when both were still closeted.)
On a recent morning, Taylor cued songs and interviewed the musical comedy duo Deven & Ned from behind a control board inside the cozy broadcast studio. He played a station ID recorded by a famous local listener: Barry Manilow. Screens overhead displayed where KGAY's listeners were in real time: Festus, Mo.; Andalusia, Spain; Surrey, British Columbia. The average morning streaming audience is approximately 2,400 people, according to numbers Fuhr provided.
Taylor, 58, became emotional as he talked about meeting a listener -- "a guy in this little Christmas sweater and cute shoes with a little dog," he said -- at a free Christmas breakfast that KGAY cosponsored one year.
"He said, 'I can't tell you what KGAY means to me. I listen at home all the time, thank you,"' Taylor recalled. "I said, 'Where do you live?' He goes, 'My car."'
Taylor paused, tears collecting in his eyes. "We have a connection," he continued, his voice almost a whisper, "even if it's one guy alone with his dog."
Like Patagonia or Ben & Jerry's, KGAY operates as a public benefit corporation, a venture that's about "purpose over profit," as Fuhr put it. The station's on-air and digital advertisers have included McDonald's, during Pride, as well as local businesses including a Kia dealership and the men's wear store Bear Wear, which sells gay threads like teeny man-bikinis and "Captain Abearica" T-shirts in big-guy sizes.
Fuhr, who got his start in radio 50 years ago in his hometown, Hastings, Mich., operates KGAY as part of a mini gay media empire that includes the Gay Desert Guide, an L.G.B.T.Q. online directory and events calendar, and a digital marketing company. Fuhr said KGAY doubled its revenue year over year the past two years, but is still breaking even. He expects KGAY to be profitable this year.
An impromptu survey of around a dozen gay men in Palm Springs -- bartenders, servers, Uber drivers -- revealed that all had heard of KGAY, but only about half said they listened regularly.
Among them was Christopher Musser, a retired nurse and hairdresser who also drives Uber. He said he is 62 and too old to dance the way he used to at Rage, a West Hollywood gay bar where he turned heads in the '80s -- not that he goes to clubs now anyway.
He listens to KGAY, he explained, because it makes him, and his passengers, feel good.
"But if I go to pick up some old people, I won't put it on," he said.
Photograph Top, from left: Brad Fuhr, Chris Shebel and John Taylor of KGAY in Palm Springs, Calif. Above, Shebel, the station's program director and weekday afternoon D.J., at work. Taylor is also a D.J., and Fuhr is the chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE GROSKOPF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Radio stations; Dance; Popular music

Business indexing term: Subject: Radio stations

People: Summer, Donna

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/07/arts/music/kgay-radio-station.html

Title: Call Letters That Say It With Pride:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 13, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Tim es Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2925371334

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/call-letters-that-say-with-pride/docview/2925371334/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Who Had Game: Grading the Advertising Super Bowl: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Hale, Mike

Publication info: Hale, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-had-game-grading-advertising-super-bowl/docview/2925365781/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Here is how our critic saw the Super Bowl commercials from best to worst.
In the spirit of "Who actually watches the game?," here is our ranking of Sunday night's Super Bowl commercials, from best to worst.
Ground rules: Only ads shown on the national CBS broadcast during the game were eligible. Not included are some non-commercial (religious, political, social advocacy) spots and most movie trailers and promos for television and streaming broadcasts.
The Best of the Bunch
These are the ones we'll remember for at least a day or two.
BMW
Christopher Walken makes fun of people making fun of Christopher Walken, with a cameo performance by the Super Bowl halftime star Usher. As always, he walks the walk.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Mountain Dew
Aubrey Plaza flat-affects her way through life with the help of a carbonated citrus beverage. Plaza is reliably droll, and there's a late "Parks and Recreation" homage.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Squarespace
Aliens (a theme in this year's ads) come to earth and can't get our attention until they figure out how to get on the internet. It is handsomely directed by Martin Scorsese (working with the "Barbie" cinematographer Rodrigo Prieto), though it's not at all clear what's being advertised.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Lindt
A chocolate ball bops around the world to the tune of Perry Como's "Round and Round." Shiny, bouncy candy.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
'A Quiet Place: Day One'
Lupita Nyong'o faces an alien invasion in a prequel film to John Krasinski's "A Quiet Place." The clear winner among the movie trailers.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Google
A man with low vision records his life in sharp photographs using a new feature of the Google Pixel. Touching story with a predictable but effective big finish.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Dunkin'
A blustery Ben Affleck tries to impress an unimpressed Jennifer Lopez while an embarrassed Matt Damon and enthusiastic Tom Brady look on. Pleasant buzz of star power.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
E*Trade
A pair of lifelike babies play pickleball with a pair of obnoxious adults in need of schooling. One of the few ads whose humor has anything resembling a bite.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
poppi
Attractive young people in grainy, retro split-screen video try to convince us of the healthy nature of the sodas sold by this Austin, Texas-based beverage company. Visually fizzy.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
National Football League
A youngster imagines playing American football as he runs through a crowded Ghanaian market accompanied by N.F.L. players, then emerges into an N.F.L. international training program and encounters the former New York Giant Osi Umenyiora. Better ground game than the Chiefs or 49ers.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
BetMGM
Vince Vaughn explains that Tom Brady, and only Tom Brady, is not allowed to use the sports betting service because he has already won too much. Vaughn-to-Brady is a winning combination.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The Perfectly Fine
These get an A for effort and a B- for execution.
TurboTax
The "Abbott Elementary" star Quinta Brunson tells us (twice) to do our taxes. Brunson is so darn likable that it seems like a good idea.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
NYX Cosmetics
Cardi B raps about lip gloss; an accompanying comedy bit about men using Duck Plump to plump something other than their lips was available online but not shown on CBS. The timidity was disappointing but Cardi B is never not funny.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Apartments.com
Aliens come to earth and, naturally, need an apartment. Simple-minded but any scenario benefits from the presence of Jeff Goldblum.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Etsy
America realizes it needs to give France a gift in return for the Statue of Liberty, uses Etsy to send a giant cheese board. Sounds cute, and it is.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Kia
Dad of the year uses his Kia EV9 to light a pop-up ice rink so a young figure skater can perform for her ailing grandfather. (Or at least that's what it looks like.) High-horsepower tear-jerker.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Coors
The Coors Light train roars across the country to salvage an awkward big-game party. Forward momentum and an amusing five-second LL Cool J cameo.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Volkswagen
The American dream as lived by an immigrant named the Beetle, from 1949 to the present, set to "I Am ... I Said." Herbie goes to Ellis Island.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Doritos
A pair of abuelas named Dina and Mita go into avenger mode when a young guy grabs the last bag of Dinamita chips. Comic action with a brief appearance by Jenna Ortega.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Verizon
Beyoncé, with the help of Tony Hale (in "Veep" mode), tries to break the internet as a saxophonist, cyborg, Barbie, astronaut and Botus. Sorry, BeyHive, but self-referential does not equal super.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Microsoft
Everyday people contemplate the differences that the Copilot A.I. assistant could make in their lives. Evocative and (intentionally?) a little eerie.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
STōK Cold Brew
Anthony Hopkins lampoons his own gravitas to sell cold brew coffee as well as promote the Wrexham soccer club. Sir Anthony is in good form but his 2016 spot for TurboTax was funnier.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Inoffensive but Forgettable
They tried. Nobody got hurt.
T-Mobile
Zach Braff and Donald Faison of "Scrubs" join Jason Momoa for a "Flashdance"-inspired musical ode to cutting the cord. Lively, though is this something anyone still needs to be told? (The first T-Mobile spot, with celebrities doing goofy auditions, was more pedestrian.)
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Pluto TV
A farm grows human couch potatoes who are irrigated with constant streams of their favorite programming. This elaborately staged comic-dystopian scenario is awfully close for comfort.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
'IF'
Randall Park pretends to be John Krasinski in a promo, inspired by a similar gag in "The Office," for Krasinski's imaginary-friend film "IF." Park spars amusingly with Ryan Reynolds but yes, every movie trailer really is too long.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
State Farm
As the movie hero Agent State Farm, Arnold Schwarzenegger sends up his film persona and his actual accent. Schwarzenegger is charming but the joke runs thin faaaast.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Nerds
Candies joyfully dance before being popped into the mouth of the influencer Addison Rae. Nothing much to it, but watching a big gummy pirouette to "Flashdance ... What a Feeling" is just a little bit mesmerizing.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Budweiser
The Clydesdales come out of retirement to pull a wagon of beer through the snow. Artful nostalgia, though who thought "The Weight" was an appropriate anthem for beer delivery?
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Salomon
A sporty young woman runs through lovely mountain landscapes. The clothes won't make the rest of us look that good.
Dove
Young female athletes take pratfalls across a variety of sports in what turns out to be a public service announcement for body positivity. Engaging but not quite coherent.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Try Again
Had some talent involved but the result sailed wide right.
Booking.com
Tina Fey's former castmates from "30 Rock" play variations of her to demonstrate that you can be anyone you want on vacation. Funny people trapped in a moldy premise.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Starry
The rapper Ice Spice, hanging out at the club with PepsiCo.'s Starry, is ambushed by her ex, a generic lemon-lime soda. It's a blandly cute scenario with a twist of horror.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
CeraVe
The fictitious outing of Michael Cera as the mastermind behind the similarly spelled cosmetics line continues in a sendup of dreamy, narcissistic designer-brand commercials. Could have used an exfoliator.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
'N.F.L. Sunday Ticket'
Evoking Carroll Ballard's wonderful film "Fly Away Home," a solo pilot follows uniformed Eagles and Seahawks who are migrating away from the football season. Just barely achieves flight.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Michelob Ultra
Lionel Messi kicks a soccer ball around a beach while waiting for his beer; Jason Sudeikis and Dan Marino are among the onlookers. Stylish shrug.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Popeyes
Ken Jeong is unfrozen into a present day full of miracles: fanny packs, drone delivery, Popeyes' new chicken wings. Studiously neutral about the current state of the world.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Bass Pro Shops
Photogenic middle Americans pilot Bass Tracker fishing boats around picturesque lakes. Straightforward, as if made for local late-night.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Mighty Patch
A woman in a red body suit yells "Pop me!" in a pitch for pimple patches. Memorable for the wrong reasons.
Pringles
Chris Pratt puts on a walrus mustache and goes viral as the Pringles guy. Cute but does not answer the question, "Chris Pratt?"
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Hellmann's
Kate McKinnon and a monosyllabic cat make mayonnaise fly off the shelves in a high-concept spot that has something to do with food waste. Would have been better, and $ 7 million cheaper, at 30 seconds.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Veozah
Women chant "hot flash" and "not flash" to promote the prescription menopause medication. Lukewarm.
Uber Eats
Various celebrities forget things because of the brain space required to remember everything Uber Eats delivers; for example, Jennifer Aniston forgets David Schwimmer. Maybe they could have ordered a less labored premise?
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Snapchat
The messaging app tries to sell itself by putting down the features that characterize other social media. Hey, I like likes!
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The Flagrant Missteps
Famous people and millions of dollars that together can't quite amount to mediocrity.
M&M's
Dan Marino, Terrell Owens and Bruce Smith receive rings for having come close to winning the Super Bowl. Scarlett Johansson's cameo can't save it.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
CrowdStrike
Part "Westworld," part "Star Wars": a cybersecurity tech in a digital Old West town fights off alien invaders with her tablet. Least exciting showdown ever.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Pfizer
The drug company invokes a long history of scientists, including Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein, to celebrate its 175-year existence. Visually inventive, but there's no vaccine against overreach.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Bud Light
A magic bottle grants wishes, including palling around with Peyton Manning and Post Malone. From a beer with reduced calories, a world of diminished expectations.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
e.l.f. Cosmetics
Rick Hoffman and Gina Torres of "Suits" and Judy Sheindlin of "Judge Judy" in a courtroom scenario that parodies both shows. Objection: relevance.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Miller Lite
The comedian Rob Riggle jogs in Miller Lite body paint for the brand's "Running of the Beers" campaign. Doesn't really go anywhere.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Homes.com
Dan Levy of "Schitt's Creek" and Heidi Gardner of "Saturday Night Live" run through various frenetic scenarios in a series of ads for the online real estate company. Could have used more Jeff Goldblum.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Kawasaki
Being in the presence of a Kawasaki Ridge makes both people and animals grow mullets. Boring in the front, boring in the back.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Skechers
Mr. T chastises Tony Romo, who called the big game for CBS on Sunday night, for pointing out that there is no "t" in Skechers. Pity is called for.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Reese's
A living room focus group reacts zanily to news about a new peanut butter candy. Hackneyed high jinks (which is probably the point, but still).
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The Worst of the Bunch
It takes real effort to be this bad.
Oreo
Flipping a coin is replaced by twisting an Oreo, in momentous decisions from the Trojan War to the creation of "The Kardashians." Crème de la creaky.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Paramount+
Actors, athletes, animated figures, reality stars and the band Creed gather on a snowy mountain to do something that involves Patrick Stewart mildly embarrassing himself. Makes no good argument for the necessity of second-tier streaming services.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Temu
The Chinese e-commerce company repeated its "shop like a billionaire" theme from last year, with an animated young woman spinning through a world of merchandise. Positing that everything we see has a price tag may be realistic but should it inspire you to shop?
BodyArmor
Fifteen seconds of slightly surreal, "artificial" sports action followed by 15 seconds of "real," BodyArmor-approved sports action. I'll have the artificial, please.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Toyota
Toyota Tacomas tool around the desert while people in the passenger seat make bug eyes and hold the grab handle for dear life. Unlikely to grab you.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Drumstick
The comedian Eric André, ill on a plane, is tended to by an ice cream cone named Dr. Umstick. Apparently there wasn't a writer on board.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
FanDuel
The former Patriots star Rob Gronkowski misses a field goal live, losing money for some bettors and winning it for others. Lame right. (A later, recorded spot offered a tribute to the actor Carl Weathers, who died Feb. 1.)
Photograph Left, from top: Christopher Walken for BMW; Aubrey Plaza for Mountain Dew; and Lupita Nyong'o for "A Quiet Place: Day One." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BMW; MOUNTAIN DEW; PARAMOUNT) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Noncitizens; Commercials; Beer; Motion pictures; Cosmetics

Business indexing term: Subject: Commercials

People: Krasinski, John (1979- ); Brady, Tom; Cardi B; Walken, Christopher

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/11/arts/television/super-bowl-commercials-ads-best-worst.html

Title: Who Had Game: Grading the Advertising Super Bowl:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 13, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2925365781

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-had-game-grading-advertising-super-bowl/docview/2925365781/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2024

Last updated: 2025-02-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Outside New Orleans, a New Mardi Gras Experience: The King Cake Drive-Thru

Author: Rojas, Rick

Publication info: Rojas, Rick. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/outside-new-orleans-mardi-gras-experience-king/docview/2924800188/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
METAIRIE, La. — Of course Mardi Gras is about boundless revelry: the weeks of balls and the parades that shower the streets of New Orleans with beads. But beneath all that, it is also a period of metamorphosis.
A midwinter Tuesday transforms from the most mundane of days into a festival of frivolity and vice. People shed the cocoons of their regular lives and emerge plumed in feathers and sequins.
And this year, just outside New Orleans, a tire shop that for as long as anyone can remember sold only car parts has become a bustling marketplace offering king cakes, the delicacy of the Carnival season, in just about any conceivable flavor. All you have to do is drive up.
“Any idea of what you want?” Tiffany Langlinais asked a customer who pulled up on a Friday afternoon.
It is a daunting question at the King Cake Drive-Thru. Flaky or fluffy? Filled with cream cheese? What about strawberries, ice cream, even crawfish — or nothing more than the traditional plastic baby? Cakes from more than a dozen bakeries are on offer.
Others have had the idea to sell king cakes culled from various local bakeries, at one location, like King Cake Hub in the Mid-City neighborhood of New Orleans. But the innovation of the King Cake Drive-Thru, which Langlinais opened in January with her fiance, Mike Graves, is the added convenience of accessing that bounty of options without even needing to get out of the car.
The drive-thru has drawn nurses headed to morning hospital shifts, parents with cars full of children, tourists on road trips and people with limited mobility or weakened immune systems keeping them from easily browsing bakeries. Even the food writer for the city’s main newspaper, The Times-Picayune, passed through.
“I’m surprised nobody thought of it before you, Mike,” David Scripter told Graves as he dropped off an order of dozens of cakes from Bittersweet Confections, a bakery started by his wife.
“Sometimes,” Graves said, “the best ideas are right in front of you.”
The drive-thru, which takes over the parking lot of Duckworth Tires in the suburb of Metairie three days a week, often has a line of cars waiting when it opens at 7 a.m., and has sold out its inventory well before 7 p.m., its listed closing time.
King cakes have always been a staple of the Carnival season along the Gulf Coast, a crown of pastry served during a burst of gluttony and good times before the austerity and fish fries of Lent. (King cake season begins Jan. 6 — known as Twelfth Night, Epiphany or Three Kings Day — and ends with Fat Tuesday, or Feb. 13 this year.)
A king cake, in what many consider its purest form, is a ring of brioche-like dough with a dash of vanilla, a crunchy coating of purple, green and gold sugar and a small trinket known as a fève — usually a plastic baby — baked inside.
“It’s almost blasphemous to get cream cheese in it,” Pam Carr said the other day as she placed an order a staunch traditionalist never would: a pair of cream cheese and chocolate cakes to share with her co-workers at a warehouse store. “Those are the ones I like!”
King cakes are another front in a familiar New Orleans divide. There are those who believe that adhering to tradition means refusing to budge from how things have always been done, and those who maintain that experimentation and interpretation are not an insult to the past, but a tribute.
“Anyone can put anything in a king cake now,” Bridgett Saylor Meinke said as she surveyed the drive-thru’s selection.
She grew up on old-school king cake but has been cautiously open to trying some newfangled varieties, like the bananas foster from Brennan’s (“Absolutely delicious,” was her take) and the strawberry cream cheese from Joe’s Cafe.
“That’s the one I’m on the hunt for today,” she said.
The drive-thru’s menu varies some week to week, written on a white board by Langlinais. The couple buys the cakes from bakeries at a wholesale rate and sells them at a markup, with prices ranging from $17 to about $50 per cake. (They come in a range of sizes, too.)
On a recent weekend, there were plenty of traditional options, as well as the Bavarian cream from Caluda’s, an almond cake from District Donuts, boudin or crawfish varieties from Clesi’s Seafood, and lemon curd and vanilla bean cakes from Paw Paw’s Donuts.
The one with Vietnamese coffee filling from Dough Nguyener’s Bakery sold out quickly, as did the cinnamon cream cheese option from Tartine.
Langlinais wanted to lure customers with their favorite offerings from well-known spots but also nudge them toward cakes they may not know. Those from Joyce’s Sweets, a bakery in Ponchatoula, almost an hour away, are a prime example.
Joyce Galmon is known for her pralines, but she has made king cakes for 25 years, stuffing them with a filling made from broken pralines she could not sell.
“Miss Joyce has no social media,” Langlinais said. “You can only call her. She has no website.”
In past years, Galmon would sell as many as 90 cakes in a season. With the King Cake Drive-Thru, she has sold more than that in a single weekend.
Hers is a labor-intensive process, teasing out the dough, lathering on the praline filling, and then letting the cakes rest and rise for several hours. The result: a gooey, crunchy eruption of cinnamon and sugar.
“It’s got me on my toes,” Galmon said after delivering a fresh batch to the tire lot. “It was a hobby for me, but they’ve made it bigger.”
For all the excitement the drive-thru has caused, it is a simple operation. From the street, it almost looks like a COVID testing site.
“No frills, as you can see,” Langlinais said, “with our tent and tables and Mike’s van.”
She was referring to a raggedy but reliable 2007 Kia Sedona missing its middle seat.
Jimmy Duckworth, the owner of Duckworth Tires, gave them a pretty good deal on rent: a king cake a week. Last week, he got his favorite, the cinnamon cream cheese kind from Tartine.
“I’ve been very lucky in life,” he said. “Give them a break — why not?”
He nodded at Graves, who was busy helping customers.
“Look at him,” Duckworth said. “He’s all happy.”
A few years ago, Graves, 35, had been a lawyer in Manhattan, working in finance. Then he moved to New Orleans and started a novelty ice cream business called Bof Bars. He had no ties to New Orleans — he grew up in Chicago — but now he cannot imagine leaving. He and Langlinais are planning to get married in March.
Langlinais, who also owns a marketing business, grew up in a shrimping family in Biloxi, Mississippi, immersed in the elaborate world of Mardi Gras.
She became something of a king cake connoisseur. She has tried more than 100 varieties. She keeps a spreadsheet with detailed notes. (“Enjoyed the light filling but would want x3 for me to be truly happy,” she wrote of one encounter.)
“I know that it’s not a super refined operation,” Langlinais, 33, said, “but we want it to feel like us.”
There have been setbacks. One day last month, Graves woke up at 3 a.m. to find someone had busted a window on the minivan and stolen 100 cakes.
The whole endeavor has been exhausting: the excruciatingly early mornings hustling to collect the cakes at bakeries or rendezvous points in random parking lots. The 12-hour days on their feet at the drive-thru. And there have been the urgent after-hours calls and texts.
“My kid didn’t tell me she got the baby!” said one friend desperate for a last-minute cake. (According to tradition, the one who finds the baby is responsible for supplying the next cake.)
The drive-thru is usually open on Fridays through Sundays, but customers have asked if the couple would be selling cakes on Fat Tuesday.
Not a chance.
Duckworth Tires will be a tire shop again.
“I’ll be partying,” Graves said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Bakeries; Tires; Cheese; Mardi Gras

Business indexing term: Subject: Bakeries

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Relocation Of Business; Road Trips; Automobiles; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Customer Relations; Fruit; Cheese; Gulf Coast (Us); Collectors And Collections; Parking; New Orleans (La); Kia Motors Corp; Mississippi; Hers Inc; Restaurants; Bavaria (Germany); Seafood; United States; Bakeries And Baked Products; Parking Garages And Lots; Metairie (La); Carnival (Pre Lenten); Three Kings Day; Shopping And Retail; Advertising And Marketing; Cakes; Vi etnam; Cinnamon (Spice); Sedona (Ariz); Cooking And Cookbooks; Newspapers; Robberies And Thefts; Parades; Chicago (Ill); Biloxi (Miss)

Title: Outside New Orleans, a New Mardi Gras Experience: The King Cake Drive-Thru

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 12, 2024

Dateline: 2024-02-12T02:09:02Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals- -United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2924800188

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/outside-new-orleans-mardi-gras-experience-king/docview/2924800188/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Steelmaking Hub Aims for Revival: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Nerkar, Santul; Townsend, Akilah

Publication info: Nerkar, Santul; Townsend, Akilah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steelmaking-hub-aims-revival/docview/2923666648/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Gary, Ind., was once a symbol of American innovation. The home of U.S. Steel's largest mill, Gary churned out the product that built America's bridges, tunnels and skyscrapers. The city reaped the rewards, with a prosperous downtown and vibrant neighborhoods.
Gary's smokestacks are still prominent along Lake Michigan's sandy shore, starkly juxtaposed between the eroding dunes and Chicago's towering silhouette to the northwest. But now they represent a city looking for a fresh start.
More than 10,000 buildings sit abandoned, and the population of 180,000 in the 1960s has dropped by more than half. Poverty, crime and an ignoble moniker -- "Scary Gary" -- deter private investors and prospective homeowners.
As U.S. Steel stands at a crossroads -- a planned acquisition would put it under foreign control -- so does the city that was named for the company's founder and helped build its empire. A new mayor and planned revitalization projects have rekindled hope that Gary can forge an economic future beyond steel, the kind of renaissance that many industrial cities in the Midwest have managed.
In theory, the potential is there. Gary sits in the country's third-largest metropolitan area, astride major railroad crossings and next to a shipping port. A national park, Indiana Dunes, is a popular destination for park-loving tourists and curious drivers.
"We have the recipe for success," said Eddie Melton, the newly elected mayor. "We have to change the narrative and make it clear to the world that Gary is open to business."
A minor-league ballpark and a casino are among the construction projects that city officials point to as success stories. But they've failed to generate the sort of lasting, spillover economic effects that were hoped for, said James B. Lane, a history professor at Indiana University Northwest and a historian of Gary.
"The problem with all of these projects is that they didn't lead to a multiplier effect of shops and businesses around them," Dr. Lane said.
Other efforts have come up short. The city agreed to a sale of its convention center to a tech company that promised thousands of jobs, but later sued the firm after the company defaulted on its contracts. A multibillion-dollar plan to create a theme park capitalizing on Gary's renown as the birthplace of the Jackson Five was scuttled in the 1990s.
"We certainly missed an opportunity to make it like a Dollywood, a Graceland," said Chuck Hughes, the president of the Gary Chamber of Commerce.
U.S. Steel's presence in Gary is greatly diminished. Gary Works, U.S. Steel's largest plant, employs around 3,700 people, down from more than 30,000 at its peak. But local businesses still rely on the economic activity generated by the plant, which remains one of the city's top employers.
One such business is Great Lakes Cafe, a diner right outside the gates of Gary Works. Every morning, steelworkers donning orange overalls stop in the restaurant, which has signs expressing support for the United Steelworkers union, to enjoy plates of hash browns and biscuits and gravy before starting their workday.
"We love U.S. Steel," said Cindy Klidaras, the owner of the restaurant, which opened in 1994.
Economic research doesn't point to one clear solution for Gary's renewal, but suggests crucial elements like investment in infrastructure and making the city a more physically appealing place to live.
Mr. Melton's election was celebrated by many as a new step. Kia Smith, a small-business owner who has lived in Gary her whole life, said the mayor's focus on transparency was a positive sign for business in a place that has long dealt with corruption. Ms. Smith, whose grandfather worked in the steel mill, said the city needed to diversify its economy beyond steel.
"Nobody owns Gary," said Ms. Smith, 43, who owns and operates a health food shop and catering business. "We all own Gary."
Beautification and restoration efforts are underway. Mr. Melton's administration has begun demolishing old buildings to attract developers who can put new housing and other structures on the many vacant lots. One idea is to make Gary a viable alternative to Chicago, where rents have skyrocketed. Jim Wiseman, a lifelong resident who has worked in local construction for more than 40 years, said his company had started working with the new administration, razing 15 buildings recently.
Mr. Wiseman's own childhood home, in the hard-hit Aetna neighborhood, is among those set to be torn down. "The demolition is one way to change the community forever," he said. "I hope to see a renaissance of new growth and housing for the community as we change things for the better."
The South Shore Line, a commuter rail line that connects Chicago with cities in northwest Indiana, is set to open a second set of tracks between Gary and Michigan City to the east. The Gary/Chicago International Airport received $ 6 million in federal funding and added more cargo capacity in 2023, with the aim of serving as a logistics hub for tenants like United Parcel Service. In December, Gov. Eric Holcomb announced a $ 127 million grant to improve Interstates 80 and 94, which run through Gary, with funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
Still, the challenges are steep.
Growing up in Gary, Kamal Minkah knew it as a thriving city. Things started to change in the late 1960s, when many white residents left, and continued with the first widespread layoffs at Gary Works in the early '70s.
Mr. Minkah left to join the Air Force in 1980, returning in 1991. Gary was unrecognizable.
"It was like a sense of emptiness," Mr. Minkah, 60, said. "It's like the city just crumbled."
Today, Mr. Minkah is a police officer assigned to Gary's school system and runs a karate instruction school. He cited Gary's proximity to Chicago and low housing costs as selling points.
Political isolation is another difficulty. Gary's demographics -- the city is more than 80 percent Black and heavily Democratic -- put it at odds with Indiana's majority Republican legislature. Lawmakers have blocked initiatives that would have allowed Gary to expand its tax base and offered it little state funding, citing concerns over corruption. At the same time, the Illinois government has had little incentive to better connect Chicago to a city in Indiana.
Paul Helmke, the former Republican mayor of Fort Wayne, said a quirk of Indiana state tax law had helped his city, but not Gary, recover from the decline of manufacturing. Gary was a smaller, majority Democratic city within its larger, more conservative county, which by Indiana law controlled its ability to manage its taxes. It couldn't grow its tax base without the county's approval.
"Gary was held captive to what the other cities in its county wanted to do," Mr. Helmke said.
Other cities provide contrasts and possible lessons.
Some 450 miles to the southeast, Pittsburgh's steel legacy remains a core part of its identity, even as the city hardly resembles its days of heavy industry. Chic bars, co-working spaces and university hospitals stand where steel mills once lit the night sky.
Unlike Pittsburgh, Gary doesn't have a major research university, a key driver of economic transformation. Mr. Melton said his administration had worked closely with Detroit's mayor to understand how that city had worked to revitalize its economy after losing much of the nation's auto manufacturing.
A useful template for Gary may be Erie, Pa., said John Lettieri, a co-founder of the Economic Innovation Group, a nonprofit research organization. Like Gary, Erie was heavily reliant on manufacturing -- and suffered when those jobs were shipped overseas. But a combination of business and political leadership and the investment of one of the city's largest employers, Erie Insurance Group, led to a significant turnaround.
There, Erie Insurance worked with a cadre of local business owners, development organizations and others to revitalize the waterfront, investing $ 50 million with outside partners in 2020. That project was spurred on by a federal program that offers tax breaks for the development of distressed areas. The company also added a $ 147 million building to its campus in 2021.
But more important for Gary, Mr. Lettieri said, is a continued focus on making the city safe and livable. "When you have declining population and high crime, those are prerequisite issues that the public sector has to address first before private sector buys in," he said.
Though Gary has long been associated with decay, the residents who stayed, white and Black alike, see a chance at renewal.
Mr. Wiseman is among the hopeful. His mother worked in the steel mill in the 1940s and '50s and felt loyal to the city, staying put when many other whites left, a migration that occurred around the 1967 election of Richard G. Hatcher, one of the first Black mayors of a large American city. Before she died, she made her son promise to help bring Gary back to where it was: a place where people want to live.
"It is my absolute dream to see Gary prosper in my lifetime again," Mr. Wiseman said.
Photograph A U.S. Steel mill in Gary, Ind. The company's largest plant in Gary employs some 3,700 workers, down from over 30,000 at its peak. A planned acquisition would put U.S. Steel under foreign control. (B1); A quirk of Indiana state tax law had helped Fort Wayne, but not Gary, recover from the decline of manufacturing. Gary was a smaller, majority Democratic city within a more conservative county, which by Indiana law controlled its ability to manage its taxes. It couldn't grow its tax base without the county's approval.; The city agreed to a sale of its convention center to a tech company that promised thousands of jobs, but later sued the company after it defaulted on its contracts. Now the center stands vacant in Gary's downtown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AKILAH TOWNSEND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Gary Works in 1973. For decades, Gary churned out the product that built America's bridges, tunnels and skyscrapers. But the population of 180,000 in the 1960s has dropped by more than half. And Gary Works is greatly diminished. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SEQUEIRA/U.S. NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION) (B6); Jim Wiseman outside his childhood home in Gary, which is on the list of properties set for demolition. "It is my absolute dream to see Gary prosper in my lifetime again," said Mr. Wiseman, who stayed put when other whites left.; Eddie Melton, mayor of Gary, has targeted old buildings for demolition and the city's many vacant lots for new construction.; Kamal Minkah, who grew up in Gary, returned in the 1990s after military service. "It's like the city just crumbled," he said.; Cindy Klidaras, the owner of Great Lakes Cafe, a diner right outside the gates of Gary Works, with her granddaughter. "We love U.S. Steel," Ms. Klidaras said.; Poverty, crime and an ignoble moniker -- "Scary Gary" -- deter private investors and prospective homeowners, in a city where more than 10,000 buildings sit abandoned. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AKILAH TOWNSEND) (B7) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6, B7.

Subject: Mayors; Manufacturing; Urban planning; Funding; National parks; State laws; Cities; Building construction

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing

Location: Indiana; Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: US Steel Corp; NAICS: 331110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/03/business/economy/gary-indiana-economy.html

Title: Steelmaking Hub Aims for Revival:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 9, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2923666648

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steelmaking-hub-aims-revival/docview/2923666648/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Drivers Wanted: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lawrence, Ulrich

Publication info: Lawrence, Ulrich. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drivers-wanted/docview/2916296553/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Automakers like Ford, Kia and Toyota are offering more hybrid options to appeal to buyers who aren't ready for fully electric vehicles.
As Teslas and other electric vehicles dazzled car buyers with futuristic technology and dreams of a gasoline-free future, hybrid cars began to seem like yesterday's news. Sales of the Toyota Prius, the standard-bearer for hybrids, fell 85 percent over a decade.
Now, a slowdown in the growth of electric car sales has led General Motors, Ford Motor and Volkswagen to walk back ambitious targets for those vehicles. And sales of hybrids are robust, underscoring what may be the enduring reality check of 2023: Many Americans are hugely receptive to electrification, but they're not ready for a fully electric car.
"Consumers want the same experience they've had" with a combustion engine car, said Stephanie Valdez Streaty, director of industry insights for Cox Automotive. "And we are not there yet. Price is still the top barrier for most consumers."
Americans bought a record 1.2 million electric vehicles last year, a gain of about 46 percent and a 7.6 percent share of all new car sales, according to Cox. But hybrid sales rose even faster, up 65 percent to more than 1.2 million, lifting their market share to 8 percent from 5.5 percent, according to Edmunds. Throw in plug-in hybrids, and nearly one in 10 new cars pairs a gasoline engine with electric motors to save fuel and boost performance.
Analysts say stubbornly high electric car prices and worries about public charging are pushing some car shoppers to hybrids, including renters or urbanites who can't charge a battery-powered car at home. Hybrids deliver savings at the pump with no need to plug in for hours or plan trips around charging stops. Their batteries are much smaller and cost a lot less than the batteries in fully electric vehicles.
Buyers paid about $ 42,500 on average for hybrids in November, according to Edmunds, compared with $ 60,500 for electric vehicles and $ 47,500 for a conventional models. There is a smorgasbord of affordable hybrid models, many starting around $ 30,000 -- including a stylishly redesigned Prius that returns a model-record 57 miles per gallon. The electric vehicle market, by contrast, remains top-heavy with luxury offerings.
Jim Farley, Ford's chief executive, said mainstream consumers were fundamentally different from early adopters who flocked to electric vehicles with little encouragement or education from automakers.
"E.V.s continue to grow with spectacular numbers, but what's changing is that people buying them are not willing to pay a premium," Mr. Farley said in an interview. "Now we have to get costs under control and even -- surprise, surprise -- advertise."
Ford is trimming its planned production of the F-150 Lightning pickup truck and increasing output of the more-affordable F-150 Hybrid by 20 percent. The automaker plans to quadruple overall hybrid production in hopes of selling 100,000 this year. They include the red-hot Maverick compact pickup, whose 37-m.p.g. hybrid version has exceeded Ford's most optimistic sales forecasts.
So why doesn't Ford make all Mavericks hybrids? Mr. Farley said the company remained committed to offering a full range of powertrains, including electrified trucks that can double as mobile generators to power equipment, homes or even the electrical grid. Securing battery supplies also takes a long time, Mr. Farley said, sometimes longer than building a new assembly line.
"We didn't know a $ 30,000 truck would be this popular," he said of the Maverick. "Ford has struggled to make money on small cars since the beginning of time."
The hybrid resurgence is mainly benefiting Toyota, Honda and Hyundai Motor, including its Kia sister brand.
Those automakers account for roughly 90 percent of U.S. hybrid sales, followed by Ford. All continue to invest in the technology even as G.M., Volkswagen and other automakers vow to pivot entirely to electric vehicles.
Honda outdid itself in 2023, nearly tripling hybrid sales to 294,000 units. Hybrid versions of the Honda Accord sedan and the CR-V sport utility vehicle now account for more than half those models' sales. That Accord combines luxury-level comfort, quality and amenities with up to 44 m.p.g. in overall driving, for $ 33,290 to start.
En route to record U.S. sales in 2023, Hyundai, Kia and their Genesis luxury brand together sold more electric vehicles in the United States than any automaker save Tesla. Yet Hyundai Motor remains bullish on hybrids, even after the Biden administration proposed regulations that would require two-thirds of new cars to be fully electric by 2032.
"Anyone who wants to survive in this business is making these electric investments," said Steve Center, chief operating officer at Kia America. That includes Hyundai, which has committed to investing $ 12 billion in factories in Alabama and Georgia.
But Mr. Center added that an electric vehicle might not serve the needs of a "cowboy in Montana with a pickup truck." Hybrids can help reduce emissions from those kinds of vehicles faster, he said.
Mr. Center offered a bold prediction: As combustion engine cars fade into obsolescence, all remaining gasoline models will adopt electrification in hybrid form. Gasoline cars won't be able to compete without it, as consumers and regulators alike demand better fuel economy and reduced emissions.
"Everything should be hybrid to start with, because everyone can drive a hybrid, everywhere," he said.
Toyota, the world's largest automaker, seems to be treading that path. Within a few months, Toyota will offer nine hybrid-only models, including one from its Lexus luxury brand. The company sold more than 640,000 hybrids in America last year, 29 percent of its total U.S. sales; it sold about 15,000 fully electric vehicles.
David Christ, general manager of Toyota's North American division, said the automaker expects to crack 40 percent electrified sales in 2024. He echoed Mr. Center's view on the prospects for combustion engine cars.
"Over time, we're not opposed to going all-hybrid to make a faster step to a greener future," Mr. Christ said.
Toyota's faith in democratizing hybrid technology turned the company, once an environmental darling, into a whipping boy as it was widely accused of foot-dragging over electric vehicles. If Toyota is feeling vindicated, Mr. Christ won't admit it.
"A year ago, we were getting roasted in the media for not being an E.V. believer," he said. "We thought that was unfair, that we weren't in on electrification. We started it. We have eight million hybrids on the road today, and every one reduces greenhouse gas emissions."
But Mr. Christ added that the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles was not yet ready for many millions of battery-powered cars, which is why sales of such vehicles have slowed.
"At the end of the day, the consumer drives this industry, not the manufacturer," he said.
Toyota will plant its biggest flag yet in June. The redesigned 2025 Camry will be offered only as a hybrid. That may seem to be a major gamble for the nation's perennially best-selling sedan. Toyota sold about 290,000 Camrys last year, and just 35,000 were hybrids. If the new Camry can maintain its sales, Toyota will convert a few hundred thousand buyers to a roughly 50-m.p.g. hybrid in one swoop. If not, the Camry franchise will take a huge hit.
Yet Toyota isn't taking a shot in the dark. When Toyota switched the Sienna to an all-hybrid lineup for the 2021 model year, it immediately became America's best-selling minivan, up from fourth place.
But some auto experts said hybrids could do only so much.
Dave Cooke, senior vehicles analyst for the Union of Concerned Scientists, said hybrids were a critical, affordable tool that allowed millions of drivers to use less gasoline but remained a transition technology. Long-term climate change goals still demand a shift to electric vehicles powered by a renewable energy grid, he said.
"In our comments to the E.P.A. and industry, it's 'Hey, put a hybrid on everything,"' Mr. Cooke said, referring to the Environmental Protection Agency. "But we still need stricter standards to ensure automakers face rules on what's technologically achievable."
Mr. Cooke noted that the fuel economy of the nation's fleet had held flat for years, in part because of the shift to pickups and S.U.V.s. Recent gains are entirely attributable to the rise of electric vehicles, with hybrids playing a negligible role.
Chris Harto, transportation and energy policy analyst for Consumer Reports, agreed with that assessment. "Hybrids buy some time, but E.V.s are where we need to go" to achieve climate goals, he said.
Yet Mr. Harto bemoans the popular narrative that pits hybrids and electric vehicles against each other.
"They're both taking market share from less efficient I.C.E. vehicles," Mr. Harto said, referring to internal combustion engines. "And there's a lot of market share to take."
Photograph PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGER KISBY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Steve Center, chief operating officer at Kia America, said a hybrid could help cut emissions when an E.V. wasn't a good fit for a buyer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIRANDA ALAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Energy efficiency; Emissions; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile sales

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Hyundai Motor Co Ltd; NAICS: 336110; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/17/business/hybrid-cars-electric-vehicles.html

Title: Drivers Wanted:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 19, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916296553

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drivers-wanted/docview/2916296553/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Celebrating a Diversity of Hip-Hop Moves: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Seibert, Brian

Publication info: Seibert, Brian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/celebrating-diversity-hip-hop-moves/docview/2915464763/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The highlight of the street dance festival "Motion/Matter" at the Perelman Performing Arts Center came at the end: an all-styles battle that honored roots.
Fifty years into the history of hip-hop, street to stage transfers remain tricky. Hip-hop dance is diverse and globally dominant, but when it's put on concert stages, something often gets lost.
Over the past two weekends, the city's newest theater, the marble cube of the Perelman Performing Arts Center, hosted "Motion/Matter," a festival of street dance. Sampling both local artists and international ones, from Africa, Europe and Asia, it focused on theatrical productions in several styles but also hedged its bets and honored roots by finishing with an all-styles dance battle. If the range was more impressive than the individual entries, the festival was still valuable, bringing news of what's happening around the world along with reminders of bars already set by earlier generations.
The first selection, "Afrikan Party," was intriguing but confusing. The four dancers of Supa Rich Kids -- from Ivory Coast, Nigeria and Spain, led by Oulouy -- began caked in white powder, two inert on the ground, the third dragging the limp body of the fourth. Later, they all got goofy, laughing and whacking one another like the Three Stooges or doing silly duck walks, as if death (if that's what the limp bodies and powder signified) were a joke.
Sometimes, they seemed to fight, their dancing like fragments of James Brown footwork topped by twitches. Then they changed into wild outfits, screamed "African party!" and pulled members of the audience into the dance. Was this ironic? Cathartic? The tone was hard to read.
"BreAking," by the Korea National Contemporary Dance Company, had the opposite problem. Its concept was all too obvious. Near the start, a line of eight dancers advanced toward the audience, then seemed to crash (not very precisely) into an invisible fourth wall. Later, the wall idea was represented by sheets of transparent plastic, which the dancers struggled behind or tried to climb over or placed between themselves as they stacked their bodies like a sandwich. Eventually, they broke through the invisible wall and celebrated with -- what else?-- a dance party. But their varied skills, from hip-hop to balletic contemporary, were more diminished than enhanced by the frame.
"The Barefoot Diva" fell somewhere between these poles of bewildering and blatant. The work, choreographed by the French dancer Nicolas Huchard, was clearly intended to celebrate its five female dancers. A voice-over section that told us they were phenomenal, listing their attributes as they posed, too closely resembled a fashion commercial. But the dancers had already established their strengths as movers with attitude in a slow-building introduction tightly tied to its music. And the ending was a stunner, as the women dipped in and out of rainbow-ribbon light projections that showed off their curves and undulations much more eloquently than the words had.
The festival's one commissioned work, "P is for Pop D is for Dip," by the New York vogue artist Kia LaBeija, was its weakest. It was a duet in a series of short episodes. When LaBeija and Ehizoje Azeke, dressed identically, first connected, LaBeija was flirtier, Azeke more melancholic, striking "Alas, poor Yorick" poses. In later episodes, they separated and alternated, the modest Azeke posing contemplatively before a mirror, the soft-edged LaBeija, frustrated, posing with a rotary phone. The end seemed to rewrite the beginning so that the pair could embrace and entwine, but if the work had personal meaning for LaBeija -- it's dedicated in memoriam to her fellow House of LaBeija dancer Derrick Davis -- that meaning didn't register with much kinetic or theatrical force.
After all this intermittently effective concert work, the culminating dance battle came as a relief and a release. The organizers did this one right. The eight contestants were all top-notch dancers, so the one-on-one rounds progressing to a semifinal and final were all exciting matches of high creativity and skill, ably driven by DJ Bizzy and entertainingly managed by MC Cebo.
Onjay, an expert in the arm twirling of waacking with sharp musicality and a killer instinct under femme stylings, secured third place -- and the evening's only unanimous verdict -- by half assaulting, half coming on to the judges. The final pitting Castro, a large-bodied popper of quick-minded invention and wit against Javier Ninja, a voguer of extraordinary precision and flamboyant flexibility, was a bit of an anticlimax -- Castro won -- since both dancers had expended their best stuff in earlier rounds.
The height of the evening, and of the festival as a whole, came just before that final round, when each of the esteemed judges got a chance to show off. "Look at the quality of movement, not the amount of moves," Cebo counseled. And Ken Swift didn't have to do much to demonstrate that he, maybe the best B-boy ever, is still a paragon of style in his late 50s.
Even better was Rennie Harris, who, as a choreographer, has excelled more than anyone else with street to stage transfers. At 59, he doesn't dance in public that often anymore. Here, he had DJ Bizzy play "Chop Suey!" by the heavy metal band System of a Down, and for three minutes, he showed how terrifying popping and locking can be. He isolated his joints, collapsed into himself, rolled his tongue. This was pain and beauty commingled, a reminder of the intense expressive possibilities of street dance. "Motion/Matter" brought the new, but it was the veterans who really won.
Photograph Above, "The Barefoot Diva," with choreography by Nicolas Huchard. From left, Julie Laventure, Stéphie Téhoué, Leila Miretti (front), Séréna Freira and Mayvis William. Top, from left, Javier Madrid, also known as Javier Ninja, in the all-styles dance battle; and a scene from "BreAking" by the Korea National Contemporary Dance Company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA J. MICHELSON; STEPHANIE BERGER; RACHEL PAPO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Performing arts centers; Festivals; Contemporary dance; Dancers & choreographers; Dance

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/16/arts/dance/motion-matter-street-dance-festival.html

Title: Celebrating a Diversity of Hip-Hop Moves:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 17, 2024

column: Tic's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Dance Review

ProQuest document ID: 2915464763

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/celebrating-diversity-hip-hop-moves/docview/2915464763/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hertz Is Selling Some of Its EVs After a Price Cut: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hertz-is-selling-some-evs-after-price-cut/docview/2913341470/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The rental car company blamed the sharp drop in the value of electric vehicles and higher repair costs for its decision to sell 20,000 cars.
The rental car company Hertz will be selling about one-third of the electric vehicles in its fleet after they lost value more quickly than expected, the company said on Thursday. The drop in value is a blow to the company's efforts to replace gasoline vehicles with cars that do not produce tailpipe emissions.
The electric vehicles the company owned were also more likely to be involved in collisions, Hertz said, and they proved costly to repair. The company said it planned to buy more gasoline-powered vehicles to replace the 20,000 battery-powered cars it was selling.
"Certain of these E.V.s became uneconomical for us," Stephen Scherr, Hertz's chief executive, said in an interview on Thursday.
The company's decision to sell 20,000 vehicles, which Mr. Scherr blamed partly on "unprecedented" price cuts by Tesla that undercut the cars' resale value, provided fuel for opponents of Biden administration policies to promote the technology as a tool to address climate change and air pollution.
Senator John Barrasso, a Republican from Wyoming, seized on the announcement during a hearing on Thursday on the climate policies.
Hertz's decision showed that electric vehicles are costly and unpopular, Mr. Barrasso told the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. "The demand for electric cars is stagnating," he said, adding, "So much for the Biden economy."
Mr. Scherr implicitly put much of the blame on Tesla, which makes about half of all electric vehicles sold in the United States, for the rental car company's decision to sell its electric vehicles.
Tesla vehicles, which make up the largest share of Hertz's electric fleet, plunged in value after the carmaker, which Elon Musk runs, cut prices last year by about 30 percent. When the price of new vehicles is drastically lowered, it drives down the value of used cars because buyers can get the newer versions for less.
As a result, Hertz was forced to write down the value of its electric cars more quickly than it had expected, which weighed on profit, Mr. Scherr said.
Rental companies like Hertz estimate how much their cars will be worth when they eventually sell them, and that estimated decline in value is calculated as a cost. If the decline is more than expected, profit falls.
Mr. Scherr said Tesla was less willing than other carmakers to give Hertz volume discounts on replacement parts. "Tesla is new to the game," he said, suggesting that the electric car company's relative inexperience in serving rental car companies played a role in that decision.
Tesla did not respond to a request for comment.
Hertz's plan is at least a temporary reversal for the company, which in 2021 had announced it would buy 100,000 Teslas as part of a broader effort to electrify its rental fleet.
But the agreement did not set a deadline for Hertz to buy the cars, and the company has purchased only a fraction of that number. Hertz also offers electric vehicles by other manufacturers, including Kia, General Motors, Volkswagen and Polestar.
One potential reason the electric vehicles at Hertz were involved in more accidents, Mr. Scherr said, was that many people renting those cars did not have experience with the technology despite efforts by the company to educate customers. Electric cars accelerate more quickly than gasoline vehicles, and they are heavier. Demand for the vehicles was also less than the company had expected, Mr. Scherr continued.
Hertz's decision is likely to bolster the argument made by some conservatives, including former President Donald J. Trump, that electric vehicles have been overly hyped. "It will fuel the narrative on the negative side for E.V.s right now," said Jeremy Robb, senior director of economic and industry insights at Cox Automotive.
But Mr. Robb noted that electric vehicle sales in the United States totaled nearly 1.2 million last year, and were up 40 percent in the last three months of 2023 from the same period in 2022. "There is still a market for E.V.s," he said.
Hertz is not abandoning its plans to electrify its fleet or buy more Teslas, Mr. Scherr said. But, he said, the market needs to develop further.
"Tesla is among the best-selling cars in America," he said, "but it's not yet the best rental car." Mr. Scherr added: "Those two have not converged as quickly as many people, including ourselves, thought. But they will."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Automobiles; Corporate profits; Environmental policy; Electric vehicles; Price cuts

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits Price cuts

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Hertz Corp; NAICS: 532111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/11/business/hertz-electric-vehicles-tesla.html

Title: Hertz Is Selling Some of Its EVs After a Price Cut:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 12, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2913341470

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hertz-is-selling-some-evs-after-price-cut/docview/2913341470/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Auto Sales Expected To Slow After Strong 2023: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-auto-sales-expected-slow-after-strong-2023/docview/2909368454/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Automakers sold more cars in 2023 than a year ago as supply chain chaos ended, but sales are now under pressure from higher interest rates.
After enjoying a strong rebound in sales in 2023, the auto industry appears headed for slower growth this year as consumers struggle with elevated interest rates and high prices for new cars and light trucks.
Edmunds, a market researcher, expects the industry to sell 15.7 million vehicles this year. That would amount to a modest increase from the 15.5 million sold last year, when sales jumped 12 percent.
"There's definitely pent-up demand out there, because people have been holding off purchases for a while," said Jessica Caldwell, head of insights at Edmunds. "But given the credit situation, we don't think the industry will see a ton of growth this year."
Since the coronavirus pandemic, automakers have struggled with shortages of critical parts that have prevented them from producing as many vehicles as consumers wanted to buy. In 2023, the shortages, especially for computer chips, finally eased, allowing production to return to more normal levels.
But over the past year, the Federal Reserve has significantly raised interest rates, which has pushed up costs considerably for car buyers.
For years, many people took advantage of zero-percent loans to buy vehicles, even as prices climbed. But such deals, offered by automakers to move inventory, have nearly disappeared in the wake of the Fed's rate hikes. In the fourth quarter of 2023, new-vehicle sales with zero-percent financing accounted for just 2.3 percent of all sales, according to Edmunds.
Monthly payments are at near-record highs. In the fourth quarter, the average monthly payment on new cars was $ 739, up from $ 717 in the same period a year ago.
Several automakers were hoping that a rapid rise in sales of new electric vehicles would drive the industry to gains into 2024 and 2025, but those cars and trucks haven't taken off quite as quickly as many analysts and executives had hoped.
In 2023, sales of battery-powered models in the United States topped one million vehicles for the first time, and Cox Automotive, another research firm, expects sales to reach 1.5 million this year. But General Motors, Ford Motor, Volkswagen and other manufacturers had been expecting an even faster ramp-up.
But consumers have balked at the high prices of many of the newest electric models. Many drivers are also reluctant to make the switch to battery power, because they are not sure they will be able to find enough places to quickly refuel. That has forced automakers to reset their plans.
G.M. had once forecast it would produce 400,000 electric vehicles by the middle of 2024 but now has given up that target, and it has delayed the production of some electric models.
Ford had been aiming to have enough factory capacity by the end of 2024 to make 600,000 battery-powered vehicles a year, but it recently lowered production plans for its electric F-150 Lightning and its electric sport-utility vehicle, the Mustang Mach-E.
On Wednesday, G.M. said that its sales of new vehicles in the United States jumped 14 percent last year. The company sold 2.6 million cars and light trucks in 2023, up from 2.3 million in 2022, when the chip shortage limited production.
G.M. sold about 76,000 electric vehicles, up from 39,000 in 2022. But most were Chevrolet Bolts, a model that the company recently stopped making. Only about 13,000 were vehicle based on newer battery technology that G.M. had been hoping would make its electric vehicles affordable to many more car buyers.
Sales for G.M. in the fourth quarter were relatively weak. They climbed just 0.3 percent from the same period a year earlier and were down 7 percent compared with the third quarter of 2023. The company said the sales of several important models were limited by a strike at some of its plants by the United Automobile Workers union.
Separately, Toyota Motor, the second largest seller of cars in the United States after G.M., said its 2023 sales rose 7 percent, to 2.2 million vehicles. The company's sales in the fourth quarter were 15.4 percent higher than in the same quarter a year ago and about 5 percent higher than in the third quarter.
Stellantis, the maker of Chrysler, Ram and Jeep vehicles, said that it sold 1.5 million cars and trucks in 2023, about 1 percent less than the year before. The company plans to introduce eight new electric vehicles this year, and it aims to have battery-powered models account for half of its North American sales by the end of the decade.
Honda, Hyundai and Kia also on Wednesday reported strong U.S. sales for 2023 And on Tuesday, Tesla, which dominates the electric car business in the United States, said it sold 1.8 million cars worldwide last year, up 38 percent from 2022.
Ford is expected to report its sales total on Thursday.
Photograph General Motors sold 2.6 million cars and light trucks last year. (B1); Demand for cars and trucks weakened at the end of the year, possibly because of Fed rate increases that have made car purchases more expensive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRITTANY GREESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Automobile industry; Interest rates; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Trucks

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Interest rates Automobile sales

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/03/business/economy/auto-sales-general-motors.html

Title: U.S. Auto Sales Expected To Slow After Strong 2023:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 4, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--Uni ted States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2909368454

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-auto-sales-expected-slow-after-strong-2023/docview/2909368454/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

(Some of) the Best TV Episodes of 2023: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Poniewozik, James; Hale, Mike; Lyons, Margaret

Publication info: Poniewozik, James; Hale, Mike; Lyons, Margaret. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-best-tv-episodes-2023/docview/2906085684/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Bob's Burgers," "Frontline," "Killing It" and "A Spy Among Friends" were among the series that gave us some of the best episodes of television this year.
Great TV series can run for dozens or hundreds of hours, but we still experience them a piece at a time. This list is dedicated to those pieces: a handful of the best episodes that Mike Hale, Margaret Lyons and I saw in a year of professional viewership.
As usual, this list isn't comprehensive -- it wouldn't be if it were 10 times as long. And as usual, I avoided repeating shows that were on my Best of 2023 list. So I could have, but didn't, include standout installments from "The Last of Us" ("Long, Long Time"), "Succession" ("Connor's Wedding") and "The Bear" (for me, "Forks" not "Fishes," nothing against the latter). Consider it a starting point, and feel free to add your own. JAMES PONIEWOZIK
'Australian Survivor'
Season 8, Episode 7: 'Return of the King'
"Australian Survivor" has been outplaying the U.S. version for a while now, and nowhere was that more evident than in this jaw-dropping episode from the "Heroes vs. Villains" season. The episode's final tribal council featured a masterstroke of psychological manipulation by George Mladenov, or "King George," who emerged as one of the most telegenic antagonists of any version of the show. American "Survivor" is still a delight, but this iteration currently wears the crown. (Streaming on 10play.) PONIEWOZIK
'Bob's Burgers'
Season 14, Episode 2: 'The Amazing Rudy'
It's a rare comedy that can maintain quality, and even improve, going into its 14th season. It's an even rarer one that, this long into its run, can pull off a striking and effective departure from form like this side-character spotlight. Shunting the Belcher family to the wings for most of the episode, this half-hour dove into the family history of the anxious grade-schooler Regular-Sized Rudy (voiced by Brian Huskey) as he searched for a magic trick that could save an awkward dinner with his divorced parents. Funny, poignant and ultimately uplifting, "The Amazing Rudy" showed that this burger joint can pull off a distinctive special of the week. (Streaming on Hulu.) PONIEWOZIK
'Bob's Burgers'
Season 13, Episode 22: 'Amelia'
You could fill this list with episodes of "Bob's Burgers"; from the past 12 months, "The Plight Before Christmas" and "These Boots Are Made for Stalking" also come to mind. The Season 13 finale typified the Fox comedy's embrace of eccentricity, individuality and generosity of spirit, as the compulsively competitive fourth-grader Louise (Kristen Schaal) agonized over a multimedia report on her hastily chosen hero, Amelia Earhart. Her eventual triumph was a satisfying and gently comic victory for all ambitious, difficult, undervalued girls and women. (Streaming on Hulu.) MIKE HALE
'Carol & the End of the World'
Season 1, Episode 4: 'Sisters'
To the burgeoning genre of big-hearted apocalypse stories ("Station Eleven," "The Last of Us") add this adult animated series, set in the months before a looming planetary collision, which arrived too late for my annual best-TV list. Through a series of home-video snippets, this episode follows the introverted Carol (Martha Kelly) on a hiking trip with her exuberant sister, Elena (Bridget Everett), as the mismatched siblings try to bond before doomsday. (Streaming on Netflix.) PONIEWOZIK
'Cunk on Earth'
Season 1, Episode 3: 'The Renaissance Will not be Televised'
I could probably have picked any of the five ridiculous episodes of this history mockumentary, but I'm partial to the Renaissance installment. In it, Philomena Cunk (Diane Morgan) walks us through some of the major events between 1440 and 1830 or so, with her dopey and bizarre questions. She and a da Vinci expert look at "The Vitruvian Man," and she asks, "What's it for?" In praising the artist's Last Supper, she marvels, "You almost feel like you could crawl inside it and betray Jesus yourself." As for the French Revolution, she explains that "The guillotine was specifically designed to be the most humane way to decapitate someone in front of a jeering crowd." "Cunk" is dorky buffoonery at its best. (Streaming on Netflix.) MARGARET LYONS
'Dave'
Season 3, Episode 2: 'Harrison Ave.'
The fictional-autobiographical FXX comedy about the rapper Lil Dicky (Dave Burd) can be raunchy and scatological and outrageous. This third-season episode, however -- well, it was still all that but also insightful and sweet. As the title character returns home to shoot a video about a childhood romance -- cast with a slew of child-actor versions of himself as well as his actual young love, now grown up -- the ensuing chaos becomes a reflection on celebrity, memory and the responsibilities of memoir. (Streaming on Hulu.) PONIEWOZIK
'Extraordinary'
Season 1, Episode 8: 'Surprise!'
In "Extraordinary," everyone on earth gets a superpower on their 18th birthday; Jen (Máiréad Tyers) is 25 and hasn't gotten hers yet. While the humiliation and confusion she feels about this drives some of the show, it is secondary to the loving but bickering friendship with her roommate and bestie, her tense relationship with her mother and her budding romance with a shape-shifter who entered her life as a stray cat. This all comes to a head in the season finale, when a big, messy party pulls together all the show's quirky characters and plot lines -- and then just when things are feeling happy and resolved, it ends with a perfect record-scratch twist. Ah, the best kind of hurts so good. (Streaming on Hulu.) LYONS
'Frontline'
Season 42, Episode 5: '20 Days in Mariupol'
This unaffectedly brutal documentary, filmed by the Associated Press video journalist Mstyslav Chernov, belongs on every list of the year's best movies; through the good offices of "Frontline," which was involved in its production, it can be included here. In backyards, on debris-strewn streets and in the ruins of a bombed-out maternity hospital, Chernov records the anger, despair and utter bewilderment of Ukrainian civilians during the early days of the Russian invasion. And as he and his team sprint across open areas and hunker down in flimsy stairwells, he narrates their desperate efforts to get the news to the world. (Streaming on PBS.org.) HALE
'Killing It'
Season 2, Episode 2: 'Mallory'
Claudia O'Doherty gave one of 2023's best comedic performances in Peacock's capitalism satire, as Jillian Glopp, a gig worker turned partner in a struggling saw palmetto farm. In the second season's second episode, the theft of her beloved car -- a budget Kia she's named "Mallory" -- cracks her sweet disposition, turning her into a raging vengeance seeker and unleashing the frustration of years scraping by in a dog-eat-dog economy. O'Doherty filters her character's crackup through a blazing beam of Aussie sunshine. (Streaming on Peacock.) PONIEWOZIK
'A Spy Among Friends'
Season 1, Episode 5: 'Snow'
Alexander Cary's miniseries dramatizing the last days of friendship between the traitorous British spy Kim Philby (Guy Pearce) and his fellow agent Nicholas Elliott (Damian Lewis) emphasized subtle, complex psychology over spy craft (though it had that too). This may be why it didn't receive the notice it should have. The penultimate episode, in which the full dimensions of Philby's downfall became apparent, was -- like the entire series -- a clinic in naturalistic acting by Lewis, Pearce and their co-star Anna Maxwell Martin. (Streaming on MGM+.) HALE
'Stolen Youth: Inside the Cult at Sarah Lawrence'
Season 1, Episode 3: 'Larryland'
Everything about the case of the middle-aged dad Lawrence V. Ray and the group of bright young college students he drew into a cultlike miasma of mind control, sexual exploitation and indentured servitude is hard to fathom. Zachary Heinzerling's thorough, judicious documentary series made the events both more comprehensible and, in its attempts to understand some of the victims, more opaque and mysterious. The final episode, which came out during Ray's trial (he is serving a 60-year sentence for sex trafficking and other crimes), was a heartbreaking, mesmerizing summation of the case's contradictions. (Streaming on Hulu.) HALE
'Telemarketers'
Part 1
From its opening moments, HBO's "Telemarketers" is all about shaggy veracity: When we meet our protagonists, Sam Lipman-Stern (also one of the show's directors) is shirtless in bed, and Patrick J. Pespas is high in the front seat of a car. The two worked together at a telemarketing company, small cogs in a despicable grift, but the office itself is home to real camaraderie -- and real chaos, thanks in part to pervasive drug use. Lipman-Stern's grainy footage from his teenage years captures the outrageousness of his workplace but also Pespas's intense, charismatic vitality. While the subsequent episodes expose more of the telemarketing industry's shadiest work, the first installment is an instant, startling immersion into its subjects' perspectives. (Streaming on Max.) LYONS
'Wrestlers'
Season 1, Episode 5: 'Mother'
There are dozens of poignant, personal moments in "Wrestlers," a documentary series about a low-level professional wrestling league. Humor, passion, ambition -- plenty of all of those, too. But one episode is a genuine jaw-dropper, and its climax is a death match between a mother and daughter. Marie was a young mom and went to jail while her daughter, Haley, was a child. They never really reconciled, but now they're in the same wrestling league, where Marie is a doting veteran and Haley, now also a young mother herself, a fast-rising star. Marie says Haley is a "carbon copy" of her; Haley does not see it that way. But they both like turning one kind of pain into another kind of pain, and they bring all their anger and grief into the ring. They also bring folding chairs, a trash-can lid and thousands of thumbtacks, and by the end of the match, they're both battered, and Marie's face is covered in blood. It is perhaps the most visceral catharsis I have ever seen. (Streaming on Netflix.) LYONS
Photograph In the "Amelia" episode of "Bob's Burgers," the fourth-grader Louise (voiced by Kristen Schaal), center, takes a class assignment personally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX); The last episode of the documentary series "Stolen Youth: Inside the Cult at Sarah Lawrence" made its subject both clearer and more mysterious. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULU); In an episode of "Dave," the title character (Dave Burd) enlists child actors to play versions of himself for a video about a childhood romance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BYRON COHEN/FX); Claudia O'Doherty gave one of 2023's best comedic performances as Jillian Glopp in Peacock's capitalism satire, "Killing It." Behind her is her partner, Craig Foster (Craig Robinson). (PHOTOGRAPH BY PEACOCK); In a scene from "Frontline," the photographer Evgeniy Maloletka made his way through the aftermath of a Russian attack in Mariupol, Ukraine, in 2022. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MSTYSLAV CHERNOV/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Carol (Martha Kelly), left, and Elena (Bridget Everett) in "Carol & the End of the World." (PHOTOGRAPH BY NETFLIX) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Documentary series; Friendship

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/25/arts/television/best-tv-episodes-of-2023.html

Title: (Some of) the Best TV Episodes of 2023:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 27, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2906085684

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-best-tv-episodes-2023/docview/2906085684/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What to Make Next Week: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Sifton, Sam

Publication info: Sifton, Sam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-make-next-week/docview/2904858764/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Chicken vindaloo, one of the spiciest curries served at Indian restaurants in the west, is a perfect wake-up for any palate sleepy from the season's butter and sugar.
Monday
Ali Slagle's streamlined recipe for vegetarian bean and cheese enchiladas makes for a lovely weeknight meal, especially if you follow the lead of some of our readers and, instead of rolling the tortillas, stack them, New Mexico style. SAM SIFTON
Print Tip 1: Avoid diced canned tomatoes. They are mixed with calcium chloride to help them retain their cube shape, so they won't break down as well in the blender. The sauce will taste fine, but it will be noticeably chunkier.
Tip 2: The sauce and the black bean mixture, minus the cheese, can be made, covered in an airtight container and refrigerated up to 5 days in advance. Tuesday
I keep coming back to this easy Hetty Lui McKinnon dish again and again, making it with broccoli or green beans if I don't have bok choy. The recipe delivers plush -- not dry -- tofu coated in savory sauce, every single time. EMILY WEINSTEIN Wednesday
Moo goo gai pan is a staple of the Chinese American takeout repertoire, but Vivian Chan's new recipe brings it home forever, with instructions that yield a dish far superior to most of the versions that come to you in a rusting Kia or aboard an electric bike. SAM SIFTON Thursday
I love Melissa Clark's recipe for cauliflower shawarma with spicy tahini, especially alongside a mound of chopped cucumber, tomatoes and olives, with plenty of hot sauce. Spoon all that into a warm pita and discover the pleasures of a meatless street-meat dinner. SAM SIFTON Friday
This recipe comes from the great David Tanis, and it's just one example of how he coaxes beautiful results out of the simplest mingling of ingredients. (The chef Ignacio Mattos, of the restaurant Estela in New York City, once told me he called David "the magician.") Make this dish with canned tomatoes if the fresh ones you find look a little wan. EMILY WEINSTEIN
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN LIEBE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.; CHRISTOPHER TESTANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.; DAVID MALOSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.; CHRIS SIMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: SIMON ANDREWS.; DANE TASHIMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: MONICA PIERINI.) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Recipes

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/19/dining/a-chicken-curry-that-doesnt-hold-back.html

Title: What to Make Next Week:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 23, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2904858764

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-make-next-week/docview/2904858764/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tighter Tax Credits May Hurt Electric Vehicle Sales: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tighter-tax-credits-may-hurt-electric-vehicle/docview/2902823806/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Purchases of popular models like the Tesla Model 3 and the Ford Mustang Mach-E may no longer entitle buyers to tax savings because the cars do not meet tougher sourcing requirements.
Efforts to fight global warming could suffer a setback next year when new rules reduce the number of electric cars that qualify for a federal tax credit.
The credits, up to $ 7,500 a vehicle, have helped make electric cars more affordable, bringing the cost of some models below $ 30,000. Next year, for the first time, dealers will be able to give buyers the credit when they purchase a car, rather than telling them to claim it on their tax returns.
But qualifying for the subsidy will become more difficult on Jan. 1 because of Biden administration rules intended to encourage automakers to manufacture vehicles and parts in North America, while bypassing China. Most automakers are still years away from breaking their dependence on China for batteries and essential materials like refined lithium.
The stricter rules, which stem from the Inflation Reduction Act, throw up another impediment to electric vehicles. Sales of such cars and trucks are already growing less briskly than a year ago because of high interest rates and drivers' anxiety about finding charging stations.
Electric vehicles are still the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry, and Americans have already bought more than one million this year. Sales will rise another 32 percent in 2024, according to BloombergNEF, compared to 47 percent in 2023. But Ford Motor, General Motors and Tesla have slowed investment as the pace of growth has cooled.
The list of fully electric vehicles that qualify for tax credits was already limited. Under rules that took effect this year, the credit was available only to cars manufactured in North America.
To collect the full credit, carmakers also must meet quotas on how much of their battery components and certain raw materials come from the United States or trade allies. Tesla, General Motors, Ford, Volkswagen, Rivian and Nissan are the only companies offering electric cars that qualify for the at least a partial credit. Some plug-in hybrid cars from Audi, BMW, Chrysler, Jeep and Lincoln also qualify for tax breaks.
New rules kicking in on Jan. 1 add another set of restrictions, disqualifying vehicles containing components made in China or made elsewhere by a firm under the control of the Chinese government.
"If it was already confusing for consumers, it gets even more confusing," said Kevin Roberts, director of industry insights and analytics at CarGurus, an online marketplace.
Tesla, which accounts for half of all the electric vehicles sold in the United States, has warned on its website that the least expensive Model 3 sedan and a long-range version will no longer qualify after Dec. 31. The cars have a battery made in China. The existing credits lowered the price of the base Model 3 to around $ 30,000, on a par with similarly equipped gasoline cars like the Toyota Camry or Honda Accord.
The stricter rules will also disqualify Ford's Mustang Mach-E, which has been eligible for half the credit and was the fourth-most-popular U.S. electric vehicle this year. Ford is still figuring out whether the F-150 Lighting, an electric pickup, will be eligible, a spokesman said.
The rules are complex and could still be modified by administration officials, leading to confusion among industry executives. In the worst case, only a handful of vehicles will qualify.
Volkswagen said it is "cautiously optimistic" that its ID.4 electric sport utility vehicle, made in Chattanooga, Tenn., will continue to get the credit.
General Motors said it is assessing whether its electric lineup, which includes the Chevrolet Bolt and an electric version of the Silverado pickup, will qualify. Nissan, whose electric Leaf is eligible for half of the $ 7,500 credit, did not respond to a request for comment. Rivian, whose electric pickups and S.U.V.s have qualified, also did not respond.
There is another way drivers can benefit from the credit. Under an exception intended for businesses with vehicle fleets, the Inflation Reduction Act allows dealers to apply the subsidy to leased vehicles and pass it on to customers. That wrinkle has helped Hyundai and other foreign automakers remain competitive even though they do not produce electric vehicles and batteries in the United States.
More than 40 percent of Hyundai's electric vehicle sales are leases, a spokesman said, up from just 5 percent before new restrictions took effect this year. The same provision in the law has allowed people who lease cars made abroad by Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Volvo and Polestar to receive the credit indirectly.
But leasing is not a panacea. Many people prefer to own their cars, and foreign automakers are sore that they have been excluded from the subsidy available to buyers. The electric vehicle credit "is overly complex and unfortunately creating customer and dealer confusion," Volvo Cars said in a statement.
But the lawmakers who drafted and passed the Inflation Reduction Act have said they wrote it to force carmakers to realign their supply chains. That is happening, but the changes will take some time to bear fruit.
The list of eligible vehicles could grow over the course of 2024 as carmakers ramp up U.S. production to qualify for the credits and other subsidies.
The Korean automaker Kia expects to begin producing the EV9, a seven-passenger electric sport utility vehicle, at a factory in Georgia next year. Those domestically assembled vehicles should be eligible for half the credit, or $ 3,750, a Kia spokesman said.
Stellantis, which owns Chrysler, Dodge, Ram and Jeep, plans to introduce six mass-market electric vehicles in 2024, including versions of the Dodge Charger, Jeep Wagoneer and Ram pickup. The company has not said whether the vehicles will qualify for credits.
Some hybrids, which have internal combustion engines and electric motors, will also qualify if they meet the sourcing requirements and have a battery with a capacity of at least seven kilowatt-hours.
The Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid will most likely still be eligible for a $ 7,500 credit, a company spokesman said, while buyers of the Jeep Grand Cherokee 4xe and Jeep Wrangler 4xe hybrids are expected to be eligible for up to $ 3,750.
Market forces are pushing down the prices of electric vehicles, a trend that is expected to continue as carmakers increase production. The average list price of an electric vehicle fell to $ 63,000 in November from $ 68,000 a year earlier, according to CarGurus. The average list price of a vehicle with an internal combustion engine was $ 48,000, the same as in the previous year.
Federal subsidies and loans for battery factories and electric car plants are also helping to lower prices. At some point during the next several years, analysts expect electric vehicles to become less expensive than internal combustion models even without tax credits.
"The long-term trend is going to be one of reducing prices," Mr. Roberts of CarGurus said. "You are going to see more mainstream vehicles."
Photograph Teslas in Fremont, Calif. Some models will no longer qualify for tax credits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); The stricter rules will disqualify Ford's Mustang Mach-E, which has been eligible for half the credit and was a popular U.S. electric vehicle this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS MANTLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Prices; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Automobile dealers; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Tax credits Automobile sales Subsidies Automobile dealers Factories

Location: United States--US; North America; China

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: CarGurus Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: FCA US LLC; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/16/business/electric-vehicle-tax-credits.html

Title: Tighter Tax Credits May Hurt Electric Vehicle Sales:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902823806

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tighter-tax-credits-may-hurt-electric-vehicle/docview/2902823806/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fewer Electric Vehicles Will Qualify for Federal Tax Credits in 2024

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fewer-electric-vehicles-will-qualify-federal-tax/docview/2902776719/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Efforts to fight global warming could suffer a setback next year when new rules reduce the number of electric cars that qualify for a federal tax credit.
The credits, up to $7,500 a vehicle, have helped make electric cars more affordable, bringing the cost of some models below $30,000. Next year, for the first time, dealers will be able to give buyers the credit when they purchase a car, rather than telling them to claim it on their tax returns.
But qualifying for the subsidy will become more difficult on Jan. 1 because of Biden administration rules intended to encourage automakers to manufacture vehicles and parts in North America, while bypassing China. Most automakers are still years away from breaking their dependence on China for batteries and essential materials like refined lithium.
The stricter rules, which stem from the Inflation Reduction Act, throw up another impediment to electric vehicles. Sales of such cars and trucks are growing less briskly than a year ago because of high interest rates and drivers’ anxiety about finding charging stations.
Electric vehicles are still the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry, and Americans have bought more than 1 million this year. Sales will rise another 32% in 2024, according to BloombergNEF, compared with 47% in 2023. But Ford Motor, General Motors and Tesla have slowed investment as the pace of growth has cooled.
The list of fully electric vehicles that qualify for tax credits was already limited. Under rules that took effect this year, the credit was available only to cars manufactured in North America.
To collect the full credit, carmakers also must meet quotas on how much of their battery components and certain raw materials come from the United States or trade allies. Tesla, General Motors, Ford, Volkswagen, Rivian and Nissan are the only companies offering electric cars that qualify for at least a partial credit. Some plug-in hybrid cars from Audi, BMW, Chrysler, Jeep and Lincoln also qualify for tax breaks.
New rules kicking in Jan. 1 add another set of restrictions, disqualifying vehicles containing components made in China or made elsewhere by a firm under the control of the Chinese government.
“If it was already confusing for consumers, it gets even more confusing,” said Kevin Roberts, director of industry insights and analytics at CarGurus, an online marketplace.
Tesla, which accounts for half of all the electric vehicles sold in the United States, has warned on its website that the least expensive Model 3 sedan and a long-range version will no longer qualify after Dec. 31. The cars have a battery made in China. The existing credits lowered the price of the base Model 3 to around $30,000, on a par with similarly equipped gasoline cars including Toyota Camry or Honda Accord.
The stricter rules will also disqualify Ford’s Mustang Mach-E, which has been eligible for half the credit and was the fourth-most-popular U.S. electric vehicle this year. Ford is still figuring out whether the F-150 Lighting, an electric pickup, will be eligible, a spokesperson said.
The rules are complex and could still be modified by administration officials, leading to confusion among industry executives. In the worst case, only a handful of vehicles will qualify.
Volkswagen said it is “cautiously optimistic” that its ID.4 electric sport utility vehicle, made in Chattanooga, Tennessee, will continue to get the credit.
General Motors said it is assessing whether its electric lineup, which includes the Chevrolet Bolt and an electric version of the Silverado pickup, will qualify. Nissan, whose electric Leaf is eligible for half of the $7,500 credit, did not respond to a request for comment. Rivian, whose electric pickups and SUVs have qualified, also did not respond.
There is another way drivers can benefit from the credit. Under an exception intended for businesses with vehicle fleets, the Inflation Reduction Act allows dealers to apply the subsidy to leased vehicles and pass it on to customers. That wrinkle has helped Hyundai and other foreign automakers remain competitive even though they do not produce electric vehicles and batteries in the United States.
More than 40% of Hyundai’s electric vehicle sales are leases, a spokesperson said, up from just 5% before new restrictions took effect this year. The same provision in the law has allowed people who lease cars made abroad by Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Volvo and Polestar to receive the credit indirectly.
But leasing is not a panacea. Many people prefer to own their cars, and foreign automakers are sore that they have been excluded from the subsidy available to buyers. The electric vehicle credit “is overly complex and unfortunately creating customer and dealer confusion,” Volvo Cars said in a statement.
But the lawmakers who drafted and passed the Inflation Reduction Act have said they wrote it to force carmakers to realign their supply chains. That is happening, but the changes will take some time to bear fruit.
The list of eligible vehicles could grow over the course of 2024 as carmakers ramp up U.S. production to qualify for the credits and other subsidies.
Korean automaker Kia expects to begin producing the EV9, a seven-passenger electric sport utility vehicle, at a factory in Georgia next year. Those domestically assembled vehicles should be eligible for half the credit, or $3,750, a Kia spokesperson said.
Stellantis, which owns Chrysler, Dodge, Ram and Jeep, plans to introduce six mass-market electric vehicles in 2024, including versions of the Dodge Charger, Jeep Wagoneer and Ram pickup. The company has not said whether the vehicles will qualify for credits.
Some hybrids, which have internal combustion engines and electric motors, will also qualify if they meet the sourcing requirements and have a battery with a capacity of at least 7 kilowatt-hours.
The Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid will most likely still be eligible for a $7,500 credit, a company spokesperson said, while buyers of the Jeep Grand Cherokee 4xe and Jeep Wrangler 4xe hybrids are expected to be eligible for up to $3,750.
Market forces are pushing down the prices of electric vehicles, a trend that is expected to continue as carmakers increase production. The average list price of an electric vehicle fell to $63,000 in November from $68,000 a year earlier, according to CarGurus. The average list price of a vehicle with an internal combustion engine was $48,000, the same as in the previous year.
Federal subsidies and loans for battery factories and electric car plants are also helping to lower prices. At some point during the next several years, analysts expect electric vehicles to become less expensive than internal combustion models even without tax credits.
“The long-term trend is going to be one of reducing prices,” Roberts of CarGurus said. “You are going to see more mainstream vehicles.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Prices; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Factories; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Tax credits Automobile sales Subsidies Factories Automobile dealers

Location: New York; United States--US; North America; China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: CarGurus Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: FCA US LLC; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Honda Motor Co Ltd; Rationing And Allocation Of Resources; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Global Warming; Mercedes Benz; Inflation (Economics); Lincoln Motor Co; Pacifica Labs Inc; United States Economy; Hyundai Motor Co; Inflation Reduction Act Of 2022; Production; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; Air Pollution; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Polestar Performance Ab; Georgia; Politics And Government; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Volvo Car Corp; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Ab Volvo; General Motors; Chattanooga (Tenn); Nissan Motor Co; South Korea; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Lithium (Metal); Toyota Motor Corp; E Commerce; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; Rivian Automotive Llc; Federal Aid (Us); Volkswagen Ag; Stellantis Nv; Batteries; North America; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Tennessee; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Fewer Electric Vehicles Will Qualify for Federal Tax Credits in 2024

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-17T22:43:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2902776719

Document URL: https://www.proquest.co m/newspapers/fewer-electric-vehicles-will-qualify-federal-tax/docview/2902776719/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On TikTok, New Year's Is in an Awful Hurry: [Style Desk]

Author: Madison Malone Kircher

Publication info: Madison Malone Kircher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-tiktok-new-years-is-awful-hurry/docview/2895100495/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On TikTok, 2024 starts ... now.
There are six weeks left in 2023, but some people on social media are already popping the champagne, yelling "Happy New Year!" and jump-starting their resolutions.
Proactively setting goals for the year ahead has become trendy online, where a number of creators have been posting videos and memes detailing the ways they have already gotten into a 2024 mind-set.
"It is Nov. 1, which means only one thing: It is about time to set your 2024 goals," Kia Commodore, a content creator and podcast host, said in a recent TikTok video. Unlike waiting until Jan. 1, she explained, this approach "gives you two months to get started on your goals" and make sure those self-improvement resolutions stick.
The early online arrival of New Year's Day is in keeping with the hyper-fast pace of the internet, where it's never too early to celebrate the next season or holiday.
In an Instagram post on Aug. 1, the social media personality Steffy Degreff appeared in a video that showed her sipping a comically large Starbucks pumpkin spice latte in a kitchen decorated with pumpkins and other harvest season adornments. "Happy August!!!!" she said in a caption. "Which means it's basically September, so it's actually Fall."
Online, Christmas starts as soon as people compost their jack-o'-lanterns. A popular meme contrasts the sudden change a supposedly typical person goes through as the calendar flips from October to November. Envision side-by-side pictures of Mariah Carey. In the Halloween photo, she's wearing a witch costume; on Nov. 1, she appears in a Santa suit, as she does on the cover of her album "Merry Christmas."
Now the impatient souls of social media have come for New Year's Day. Health goals. Personal growth. Start immediately, no Times Square ball drop required!
"Your 2024 glow up starts now!" Jodie Taylor, 32, wrote in a caption to a TikTok video that she posted in September.
In the video, Ms. Taylor, a diversity executive and lifestyle content creator who lives in Brooklyn, provides guidelines for making an "official plan of action to glow up by the end of the year and really pop into 2024." She takes a businesslike approach to the plan, referring to the year's final months as "Q4" in a pep talk that covers career, finances, spirituality and physical appearance.
"Instead of a resolution, which tends to feel more nebulous and vague, I wanted people to start thinking about what areas of their life contribute to their own well-being," Ms. Taylor said in an interview. "When you start goal planning on Jan. 1, by Jan. 2, you're not really going to see much progress."
Carter Kale, 26, wrote down his 2024 goals in October and posted them on TikTok. "A full quarter in advance," Mr. Kale said, echoing Ms. Taylor's repurposing of corporate jargon for personal betterment.
His list included hitting 200,000 followers on TikTok, reading 10 books and buying a home. Mr. Kale, who lives in Washington, D.C., and works in government consulting, said he hoped that sharing his goals early would help motivate him and hold him accountable.
Of course, if your 2024 plans don't pan out, there's always 2025. Which is almost here.
Photograph The internet sped up the arrival of fall. Then Christmas. And now next year is already here. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID DEE DELGADO/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: New year; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/15/style/new-year-resolutions-tiktok.html

Title: On TikTok, New Year's Is in an Awful Hurry:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 30, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2895100495

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-tiktok-new-years-is-awful-hurry/d ocview/2895100495/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Even the Young Get C.T.E.: [U.S.]

Author: Bracken, Kassie; Branch, John; Laffin, Ben; Lieberman, Rebecca; Ward, Joe

Publication info: Bracken, Kassie; Branch, John; Laffin, Ben; Lieberman, Rebecca; Ward, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/even-young-get-c-t-e/docview/2891611686/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: They all died young. Most played football. Only a few came close to reaching the pros.
But like hundreds of deceased N.F.L. players -- including the Pro Football Hall of Famers Mike Webster, Junior Seau and Ken Stabler -- they, too, had C.T.E., the degenerative brain disease caused by repeated hits to the head. For now, it can be positively diagnosed only posthumously.
The brains of Wyatt Bramwell and 151 other young contact-sport athletes, both men and women, are part of a study recently released by researchers at Boston University.
The families of five of these athletes -- Bramwell, Meiko Locksley, Hunter Foraker and the twin brothers Josh and George Atkinson -- spoke extensively about the downward spirals, the confusing diagnoses and the heartache of loss and regret.
And they pondered a complicated question, fraught with implications for parents everywhere: If you could do it again, would you let your child play tackle football?
The answers varied, which gets to the heart of a risk-versus-reward dilemma. There is a line between the love of a game and the dangers it presents, and even those who have lost a child cannot agree where it is.
But as we learn more about what contact sports can do to the brain, it may be harder to justify letting children play.
And in this country, that is especially true for football.
It is hard to imagine their childhoods without football. This is America, and football is laced into its cultural soul.
Lives spin around the game: afternoon practices, Friday night games, Saturdays and Sundays spent huddled around televisions.
Start them young in tackle football. Watch their faces as they put on the pads. Watch their helmets jiggle as they run down the field. Watch them collide with the others.
Watch them get up and do it again. And again. And again.
How dangerous could it be? They are so small. So young. So resilient. They seem so happy. Wyatt Bramwell dreamed of playing football at the University of Missouri and then the N.F.L. He died at age 18.
BILL BRAMWELL "I remember Wyatt even from 5, 6 years old, definitely about 7 and 8, he was taking on that junior man of the house thing."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "He made his bed in the mornings. He did his breakfast dishes before he'd go to school. He didn't want to disappoint you."
BILL "He started playing tackle football in his third-grade year. Boy, there's a lot of misnomers around youth tackle football. You know, 'If you don't start them soon enough, they're going to get left behind.' Then are they going to be as competitive? Full disclosure,
I bought into some of that."
CHRISTIE "Wyatt wanted to go to college, play football at Missouri and then go in the N.F.L. Like every kid that loves football, that's what he thought he was going to do." Meiko Locksley was a former college football player and the son of Michael Locksley, who is now the head football coach at the University of Maryland. Meiko died at age 25.
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY "You know, Meiko was always, always had a smile on his face. He was a sweet kid, very kind. Took piano lessons, wrote poetry. He was a big smile guy.
"It made me a little nervous because as a football coach,
I wanted to make sure that he understood that every now and then you're going to have to be a little tough. You know, we put him in tackle football probably between the ages of 6 and 7."
KIA LOCKSLEY "They were all so little. The hits, it almost looked like they just bounced off each other." Hunter Foraker played at Dartmouth College before quitting over concerns about concussions. He died at age 25.
KIM FORAKER "Hunter was definitely a Colorado boy."
BILL FORAKER "Mountains, fishing, hunting. He skied when he was 1. He was just happy outdoors, yeah. He didn't just fold in with the cool crowd. He didn't have to be the most popular kid. He was fine being who he was."
KIM "Hunter was 7 years old when he began playing tackle football. And Bill was the coach."
BILL "Yup." Josh and George Atkinson III were twins who played for the University of Notre Dame. Their father, George Atkinson, is a former Raiders defensive back known as the Hit Man. His sons died by suicide less than a year apart. Josh and George died at ages 26 and 27. GEORGE ATKINSON "Believe it or not, twins think as one. They know each other's thoughts. They know each other's feelings. So they have an inner connection that we don't understand.
"Josh and George, they started playing football around age 10. You know, it made me proud. Josh was a defensive back,
George was a running back; two different mind-sets altogether.
"It was their dream, you know? And with dreams, you know,
you have to pay a price sometimes." All young athletes get hurt. There are times when the situation becomes scary. The crowd moans, then hushes. Coaches and trainers run out. Players silently kneel. Who is hurt? How bad is it?
There is worry, there is empathy, there is relief. The game goes on.
Those are just the injuries that get noticed. There is no counting the ones that don't. Every smack of the head. Every jar of the brain. For some players, maybe most, they may never add up to anything serious, or maybe not for many years.
For others, they multiply quickly.
When is a battered helmet merely the mark of a gritty, hard-hitting player, and when is it a cracked shell hiding something damaged and darker? KIM FORAKER "Hunter suffered a concussion. Was it during his
sophomore summer?"
KIA LOCKSLEY "Meiko got hit, and was laid out on the field."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "In eighth grade, he took a really hard hit,
at practice."
GEORGE ATKINSON "They got their bell rung, yeah."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "He had his bell rung."
GEORGE ATKINSON "That's hard not to get, happen in football."
BILL FORAKER "On the way home, he started to vomit."
GEORGE ATKINSON "It's not a contact sport. It's a collision sport."
BILL FORAKER "His pediatrician looked him over. His comments were like, 'Hunter, you're a big kid, you're tough. You got your bell rung. Go get them. You're going to be an all-American."'
Each athlete had his unique struggles. Most families did not connect the dots to C.T.E., with symptoms that can include impulsivity, moodiness and memory loss.
Meiko Locksley fought deep bouts of paranoia. Wyatt Bramwell was a model student in high school who became uncharacteristically rebellious. Hunter Foraker, haunted by nightmares, abused alcohol as his problems deepened. Josh and George Atkinson III had suicidal thoughts after their mother's death.
The families shared at least one thing: a growing concern that something was wrong with their child. Was it a passing phase or an ominous sign? Was it due to football or something else? BILL FORAKER "His whole person started to change."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "It was an abrupt change."
KIA LOCKSLEY "He just was, he was a different person."
BILL FORAKER "He wasn't the same kid."
BILL BRAMWELL "He became unrecognizable."
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY "Just a fragment of himself."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "He wasn't Wyatt."
BILL FORAKER "And we couldn't figure it out."
BILL BRAMWELL "And unfortunately, we couldn't recognize possibly what was happening with him until it was too late." There were desperate searches for answers. Interventions. Professional help. But these were a different kind of sports injury, not the broken bones or the torn ligaments that were relatively easy to diagnose.
In some cases, the kids themselves became worried, wondering what was wrong with their minds. They said so, sometimes to their parents, sometimes to doctors.
Sometimes in a journal or a college essay. Sometimes in song lyrics. Sometimes in suicide notes.

FROM A JOURNAL ENTRY WRITTEN BY HUNTER FORAKER
"I need to remember to ask if I can be tested for borderline
personality disorder +/or bipolar disorder. This is because
of my extreme highs + lows."
FROM LYRICS WRITTEN BY MEIKO LOCKSLEY
"I remember mental illness had me livin low
"I remember thinkin I had to go"
EXCERPT FROM AN ESSAY WRITTEN BY GEORGE ATKINSON III
"My brother and I were like faucets that were running water
with caps on.
"Eventually, you run out of steam and all this hot water that's stuck
in this little funnel bursts and there's nothing you can do about it.
"That burst cost my brother his life and nearly cost me mine."
Wyatt Bramwell sent the most direct message, through the video that he recorded on his phone for family and friends moments before he died. All of the families had that sudden, shattering moment. George Atkinson felt it twice: Josh's death by suicide in 2018 and then George III's less than a year later.
Amid all the struggles by the young men and their families to try to fix what they could not explain, there came the worst possible news. MICHAEL LOCKSLEY "We got the knock at the door two, three in the morning. You know, they informed us then that Meiko Locksley had been shot and killed up in Columbia, Md."
KIA LOCKSLEY "I immediately, when they said 'Meiko Locksley,' thought that they were mistaken. This can't be. This, this don't.
I just, I couldn't. I didn't understand."
KIM FORAKER "Hunter's nightmares, he wrote in his journal, were to take a gun, and to kill himself. He listened to his nightmares."
GEORGE ATKINSON "And, you know, they decided to take their own life. Like I said, they were, they thought as one, you know.
Right to the end, they thought as one."
KIM FORAKER "You know, the worst news you ever want to hear. You've lost your child."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "This is a club you do not want to belong to. Death is horrible anyway. When your child does it at their own hand, you are reevaluating everything you've ever did."
Today's athletes play in an era of heightened awareness of the dangers of concussions and of the cumulative effects of hits to the head.
It is different than 20 years ago, when most research focused on deceased N.F.L. players, including Hall of Famers, whose lives had unraveled because of damage to their brains.
Now, families of young athletes who never came close to fame or fortune are approaching researchers, donating their children's brains in a desperate search for answers.
KIA LOCKSLEY "I remember Mike coming to me in the midst of this pain that we were experiencing after we found out that Meiko was killed. And I mean, it was within the next day. And he said, 'We should have his brain donated, so it can be studied for C.T.E."'
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY "I really wanted to know if the concussions played any part in the connection with his deteriorating mental health."
KIM FORAKER "The Dallas coroner went into his apartment, and in his apartment were football helmets and a lacrosse helmet. And she had mentioned, 'Would you be open for us performing a brain study on Hunter?' Not knowing C.T.E. I knew nothing about C.T.E."
BILL FORAKER "I had never heard of C.T.E."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "He left us a video, which we're so glad to have. He asked his dad in the video if he would take the task on, on getting his brain donated to, for research. And we did. We were able to meet his request."
GEORGE ATKINSON "So you're either part of the problem, or you're part of a solution to the problem. What am I going to do? Let his brain be buried and nothing ever established, or nothing gained from it?" A positive C.T.E. diagnosis can be both illuminating and painful.
It can be a relief for a family to have a scientific explanation for the struggles of their child. It can be oddly comforting to know that symptoms may have gotten worse, since C.T.E. is a progressive disease.
But it also may raise more tangled, philosophical questions about what the families might have done differently. BILL BRAMWELL "The diagnosis that we got from Boston University was Stage 2 C.T.E."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "At his age level, it was significant."
BILL BRAMWELL "They hadn't seen one that was that young and only ending his career in high school."
GEORGE ATKINSON "I got both results, I think, right at the same time. They did have C.T.E., both of them. And that was a surprise
because they were so young."
BILL FORAKER "She had explained it was C.T.E., confirmed that it was C.T.E., and that it was a Stage 2."
KIM FORAKER "She went into so much detail, of just the damage to his brain. I was sick. It made me sick."
BILL FORAKER "And then we started asking questions, of course. 'What exactly does that mean?"'
KIA LOCKSLEY "I asked was, 'Did that cause the mental illness?' And there was, there wasn't a definitive 'yes,' because I was told: We don't know if C.T.E. caused the mental illness, or if it was already there."
BILL FORAKER "And then it just came together: his actions, his change in his lifestyle, his everything. It just started coming together. I believe 100 percent that C.T.E. was the cause of Hunter's death, and him taking his life."
Some families are haunted by regrets and what-ifs. They want others to learn from their loss. But what is the lesson?
For some, answers are hard. BILL BRAMWELL "Would I let him play football again? No, I probably should have just left him on the soccer field."
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "Would I let him play football again? Yeah.
He loved it. I wouldn't want to take that away from him."
BILL FORAKER "If we had the knowledge today, Hunter would have never played football. Period. If I have a grandson, he will not play football. It's not worth the risk."
KIM FORAKER "When I drive by a football field and see these young kids in helmets and pads, it just, it just breaks my heart."
KIA LOCKSLEY "Delaying the onset of contact is what I would have championed. And I still love football. We still have a son that plays football."
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY "Does it hurt that I lost my son? One hundred percent it does. But if you were to ask me today how I feel, you know, like I said, I have grandsons now that love football and are playing contact football before high school. I would be willing to say that I would do it again."
GEORGE ATKINSON "I believe live and let live. I let my kids make their choices. I'm not going to stand in their way. When you go into the sport, you go into it knowing that you can be injured; you can be injured for life. It's a choice that you make based on the love of the game that you have. This is what I want to do. Damn C.T.E. You know."
The researchers behind the study of the young athletes believe the more years of tackle football that someone plays, at any age, the higher the likelihood the person will develop C.T.E.
Only a small percentage of youth football players will play in college or in the pros. But as the study shows, they can still become afflicted with C.T.E.
So researchers recommend that families delay the start of tackle football, to limit exposure.
Many of the families from the study now agree. Atkinson, the former Raiders player who still works for the team, thinks tackle football should not be played until high school. So does Kia Locksley, the wife of Maryland's coach.
Several parents said that they cringe when they drive past fields of young children who are wearing helmets and pads and tackling one another.
What ties them all together is that their children are gone. And they don't wish that on anyone else.
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL "This was in my last Mother's Day card in 2019 from Wyatt. That's his handwriting. That's his signature. I got this on his year anniversary of his passing away. And that's the last Mother's Day card I got, so. It's always right there. So when I feel sad I can look at it, and remember he loves me."

Subject: College football; Brain; Athletes; Coaches & managers; Sports injuries; Suicides & suicide attempts

Location: Missouri; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/11/16/us/cte-youth-football.html

Title: Even the Young Get C.T.E.:   [U.S. ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: .

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 20, 2023

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891611686

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/even-young-get-c-t-e/docview/2891611686/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Even the Young Get CTE

Author: Bracken, Kassie; Branch, John; Ward, Joe

Publication info: Bracken, Kassie; Branch, John; Ward, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/even-young-get-cte/docview/2891557626/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
They all died young. Most played football. Only a few came close to reaching the pros.
But like hundreds of deceased NFL players — including Pro Football Hall of Famers Mike Webster, Junior Seau and Ken Stabler — they, too, had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease caused by repeated hits to the head. For now, it can be positively diagnosed only posthumously.
The brains of Wyatt Bramwell and 151 other young contact-sport athletes, both men and women, are part of a study recently released by researchers at Boston University.
The families of five of these athletes — Bramwell, Meiko Locksley, Hunter Foraker and twin brothers Josh and George Atkinson — spoke extensively about the downward spirals, the confusing diagnoses and the heartache of loss and regret.
And they pondered a complicated question, fraught with implications for parents everywhere: If you could do it again, would you let your child play tackle football?
The answers varied, which gets to the heart of a risk-versus-reward dilemma. There is a line between the love of a game and the dangers it presents, and even those who have lost a child cannot agree where it is.
But as we learn more about what contact sports can do to the brain, it may be harder to justify letting children play.
And in this country, that is especially true for football.
An American Ritual
It is hard to imagine their childhoods without football. This is America, and football is laced into its cultural soul.
Lives spin around the game: afternoon practices, Friday night games, Saturdays and Sundays spent huddled around televisions.
Start them young in tackle football. Watch their faces as they put on the pads. Watch their helmets jiggle as they run down the field. Watch them collide with the others.
Watch them get up and do it again. And again. And again.
How dangerous could it be? They are so small. So young. So resilient. They seem so happy.
—
Wyatt Bramwell dreamed of playing football at the University of Missouri and then the NFL. He died at age 18.
BILL BRAMWELL: “I remember Wyatt even from 5, 6 years old, definitely about 7 and 8, he was taking on that junior man of the house thing.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL: “He made his bed in the mornings. He did his breakfast dishes before he’d go to school. He didn’t want to disappoint you.”
BILL: “He started playing tackle football in his third grade year. Boy, there’s a lot of misnomers around youth tackle football. You know, ‘If you don’t start them soon enough, they’re going to get left behind.’ Then are they going to be as competitive? Full disclosure, I bought into some of that.”
CHRISTIE: “Wyatt wanted to go to college, play football at Missouri and then go in the NFL. Like every kid that loves football, that’s what he thought he was going to do.”
—
Meiko Locksley was a former college football player and the son of Michael Locksley, who is now the head football coach at the University of Maryland. Meiko died at age 25.
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY: “You know, Meiko was always, always had a smile on his face. He was a sweet kid, very kind. Took piano lessons, wrote poetry. He was a big smile guy.
“It made me a little nervous because as a football coach, I wanted to make sure that he understood that every now and then you’re going to have to be a little tough. You know, we put him in tackle football probably between the ages of 6 and 7.”
KIA LOCKSLEY: “They were all so little. The hits, it almost looked like they just bounced off each other.”
—
Hunter Foraker played at Dartmouth College before quitting over concerns about concussions. He died at age 25.
KIM FORAKER: “Hunter was definitely a Colorado boy.”
BILL FORAKER: “Mountains, fishing, hunting. He skied when he was 1. He was just happy outdoors, yeah. He didn’t just fold in with the cool crowd. He didn’t have to be the most popular kid. He was fine being who he was.”
KIM: “Hunter was 7 years old when he began playing tackle football. And Bill was the coach.”
BILL: “Yup.”
—
Josh and George Atkinson III were twins who played for the University of Notre Dame. Their father, George Atkinson, is a former Raiders defensive back known as the Hit Man. His sons died by suicide less than a year apart. Josh and George died at ages 26 and 27.
GEORGE ATKINSON: “Believe it or not, twins think as one. They know each other’s thoughts. They know each other’s feelings. So they have an inner connection that we don’t understand.
Josh and George, they started playing football around age 10. You know, it made me proud. Josh was a defensive back, George was a running back; two different mindsets altogether.
It was their dream, you know? And with dreams, you know, you have to pay a price sometimes.”
—
All young athletes get hurt. There are times when the situation becomes scary. The crowd moans, then hushes. Coaches and trainers run out. Players silently kneel. Who is hurt? How bad is it?
There is worry, there is empathy, there is relief. The game goes on.
Those are just the injuries that get noticed. There is no counting the ones that don’t. Every smack of the head. Every jar of the brain. For some players, maybe most, they may never add up to anything serious, or maybe not for many years.
For others, they multiply quickly.
When is a battered helmet merely the mark of a gritty, hard-hitting player, and when is it a cracked shell hiding something damaged and darker?
KIM FORAKER : “Hunter suffered a concussion. Was it during his sophomore summer?”
KIA LOCKSLEY : “Meiko got hit, and was laid out on the field.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL : “In eighth grade, he took a really hard hit, at practice.”
GEORGE ATKINSON : “They got their bell rung, yeah.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL : “He had his bell rung.”
GEORGE ATKINSON : “That’s hard not to get, happen in football.”
BILL FORAKER : “On the way home, he started to vomit.”
GEORGE ATKINSON : “It’s not a contact sport. It’s a collision sport.”
BILL FORAKER : “His pediatrician looked him over. His comments were like, ‘Hunter, you’re a big kid, you’re tough. You got your bell rung. Go get them. You’re going to be an all-American.’”
‘He Wasn’t the Same Kid’
Each athlete had his unique struggles. Most families did not connect the dots to CTE, with symptoms that can include impulsivity, moodiness and memory loss.
Meiko Locksley fought deep bouts of paranoia. Wyatt Bramwell was a model student in high school who became uncharacteristically rebellious. Hunter Foraker, haunted by nightmares, abused alcohol as his problems deepened. Josh and George Atkinson III had suicidal thoughts after their mother’s death.
The families shared at least one thing: a growing concern that something was wrong with their child. Was it a passing phase or an ominous sign? Was it due to football or something else?
BILL FORAKER : “His whole person started to change.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL : “It was an abrupt change.”
KIA LOCKSLEY : “He just was, he was a different person.”
BILL FORAKER : “He wasn’t the same kid.”
BILL BRAMWELL : “He became unrecognizable.”
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY : “Just a fragment of himself.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL : “He wasn’t Wyatt.”
BILL FORAKER : “And we couldn’t figure it out.”
BILL BRAMWELL : “And unfortunately, we couldn’t recognize possibly what was happening with him until it was too late.”
There were desperate searches for answers. Interventions. Professional help. But these were a different kind of sports injury, not the broken bones or the torn ligaments that were relatively easy to diagnose.
In some cases, the kids themselves became worried, wondering what was wrong with their minds. They said so, sometimes to their parents, sometimes to doctors.
Sometimes in a journal or a college essay. Sometimes in song lyrics. Sometimes in suicide notes.
From a journal entry written by Hunter Foraker:
“I need to remember to ask if I can be tested for borderline
personality disorder +/or bipolar disorder. This is because
of my extreme highs + lows.”
From lyrics written by Meiko Locksley:
“I remember mental illness had me livin low
I remember thinkin I had to go”
Excerpt from an essay written by George Atkinson III:
“My brother and I were like faucets that were running water with caps on.
Eventually, you run out of steam and all this hot water that’s stuck in this little funnel bursts and there’s nothing you can do about it.
That burst cost my brother his life and nearly cost me mine.”
Wyatt Bramwell sent the most direct message, through a video that he recorded on his phone for family and friends moments before he died. All of the families had that sudden, shattering moment. George Atkinson felt it twice: Josh’s death by suicide in 2018 and then George III’s less than a year later.
Amid all the struggles by the young men and their families to try to fix what they could not explain, there came the worst possible news.
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY: “We got the knock at the door two, three in the morning. You know, they informed us then that Meiko Locksley had been shot and killed up in Columbia, Maryland.”
KIA LOCKSLEY: “I immediately, when they said ‘Meiko Locksley,’ thought that they were mistaken. This can’t be. This, this don’t. I just, I couldn’t. I didn’t understand.”
KIM FORAKER: “Hunter’s nightmares, he wrote in his journal, were to take a gun, and to kill himself. He listened to his nightmares.”
GEORGE ATKINSON: “And, you know, they decided to take their own life. Like I said, they were, they thought as one, you know. Right to the end, they thought as one.”
KIM FORAKER: “You know, the worst news you ever want to hear? You’ve lost your child.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL: “This is a club you do not want to belong to. Death is horrible anyway. When your child does it at their own hand, you are reevaluating everything you’ve ever did.”
‘We Should Have His Brain Donated’
Today’s athletes play in an era of heightened awareness of the dangers of concussions and of the cumulative effects of hits to the head.
It is different than 20 years ago, when most research focused on deceased NFL players, including Hall of Famers, whose lives had unraveled because of damage to their brains.
Now, families of young athletes who never came close to fame or fortune are approaching researchers, donating their children’s brains in a desperate search for answers.
KIA LOCKSLEY: “I remember Mike coming to me in the midst of this pain that we were experiencing after we found out that Meiko was killed. And I mean, it was within the next day. And he said, ‘We should have his brain donated, so it can be studied for CTE.’”
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY: “I really wanted to know if the concussions played any part in the connection with his deteriorating mental health.”
KIM FORAKER: “The Dallas coroner went into his apartment, and in his apartment were football helmets and a lacrosse helmet. And she had mentioned, ‘Would you be open for us performing a brain study on Hunter?’ Not knowing CTE. I knew nothing about CTE.”
BILL FORAKER: “I had never heard of CTE.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL: “He left us a video, which we’re so glad to have. He asked his dad in the video if he would take the task on, on getting his brain donated to, for research. And we did. We were able to meet his request.”
GEORGE ATKINSON: “So you’re either part of the problem, or you’re part of a solution to the problem. What am I going to do? Let his brain be buried and nothing ever established, or nothing gained from it?”
A positive CTE diagnosis can be both illuminating and painful.
It can be a relief for a family to have a scientific explanation for the struggles of their child. It can be oddly comforting to know that symptoms may have gotten worse, since CTE is a progressive disease.
But it also may raise more tangled, philosophical questions about what the families might have done differently.
BILL BRAMWELL: “The diagnosis that we got from Boston University was Stage 2 CTE.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL: “At his age level, it was significant.”
BILL BRAMWELL: “They hadn’t seen one that was that young and only ending his career in high school.”
GEORGE ATKINSON: “I got both results, I think, right at the same time. They did have CTE, both of them. And that was a surprise because they were so young.”
BILL FORAKER: “She had explained it was CTE, confirmed that it was CTE, and that it was a Stage 2.”
KIM FORAKER: “She went into so much detail, of just the damage to his brain. I was sick. It made me sick.”
BILL FORAKER: “And then we started asking questions, of course. ‘What exactly does that mean?’”
KIA LOCKSLEY: “I asked was, ‘Did that cause the mental illness?’ And there was, there wasn’t a definitive ‘yes,’ because I was told: We don’t know if CTE caused the mental illness, or if it was already there.”
BILL FORAKER: “And then it just came together: his actions, his change in his lifestyle, his everything. It just started coming together. I believe 100% that CTE was the cause of Hunter’s death, and him taking his life.”
‘Would I Let Him Play Football Again?’
Some families are haunted by regrets and what-ifs. They want others to learn from their loss. But what is the lesson?
For some, answers are hard.
BILL BRAMWELL: “Would I let him play football again? No, I probably should have just left him on the soccer field.”
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL: “Would I let him play football again? Yeah. He loved it. I wouldn’t want to take that away from him.”
BILL FORAKER: “If we had the knowledge today, Hunter would have never played football. Period. If I have a grandson, he will not play football. It’s not worth the risk.”
KIM FORAKER: “When I drive by a football field and see these young kids in helmets and pads, it just, it just breaks my heart.”
KIA LOCKSLEY: “Delaying the onset of contact is what I would have championed. And I still love football. We still have a son that plays football.”
MICHAEL LOCKSLEY: “Does it hurt that I lost my son? One hundred percent it does. But if you were to ask me today how I feel, you know, like I said, I have grandsons now that love football and are playing contact football before high school. I would be willing to say that I would do it again.”
GEORGE ATKINSON: “I believe live and let live. I let my kids make their choices. I’m not going to stand in their way.
When you go into the sport, you go into it knowing that you can be injured; you can be injured for life. It’s a choice that you make based on the love of the game that you have. This is what I want to do. Damn CTE. You know.”
The researchers behind the study of the young athletes believe the more years of tackle football that someone plays, at any age, the higher the likelihood the person will develop CTE.
Only a small percentage of youth football players will play in college or in the pros. But as the study shows, they can still become afflicted with CTE.
So researchers recommend that families delay the start of tackle football, to limit exposure.
Many of the families from the study now agree. Atkinson, the former Raiders player who still works for the team, thinks tackle football should not be played until high school. So does Kia Locksley, the wife of Maryland’s coach.
Several parents said that they cringe when they drive past fields of young children who are wearing helmets and pads and tackling one another.
What ties them all together is that their children are gone. And they don’t wish that on anyone else.
CHRISTIE BRAMWELL: “This was in my last Mother’s Day card in 2019 from Wyatt. That’s his handwriting. That’s his signature. I got this on his year anniversary of his passing away. And that’s the last Mother’s Day card I got, so. It’s always right there. So when I feel sad I can look at it, and remember he loves me.”
—
If you are having thoughts of suicide, call or text 988 to reach the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com for a list of additional resources.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: College football; Athletes; Brain; Chronic traumatic encephalopathy; Coaches & managers; Sports injuries; Suicides & suicide attempts

Location: Missouri; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

Identifier / keyword: Mental Health And Disorders; Hunting And Trapping; University Of Notre Dame; Missouri; Research; Music; Law And Legislation; Boston University; Webster, Mike; Colleges And Universities; Age, Chronological; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Orderliness And Clutter; Education (Secondary); Sports; Football (College); Youth; Philanthropy; Men And Boys; Suicides And Suicide Attempts; Love (Emotion); Concussions; Education (K 12); Branch, John; Pro Football Hall Of Fame; Brain; Stabler, Ken; Ears And Hearing; Columbia University; University Of Maryland; Colorado; University Of Missouri; Helmets; Children And Childhood; Dartmouth College; Football; Locksley, Meiko; Interscholastic Athletics; Head (Body Part); Columbia (Md); Columbia (Mo); Oakland Raiders; Seau, Junior; Sports Injuries; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy; Tests (Medical); Maryland

Title: Even the Young Get CTE

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 19, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-19T22:16:33Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891557626

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/even-young-get-cte/docview/2891557626/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Push to Build Electric Cars, Motivating Buyers Falls Short: [National Desk]

Author: Tankersley, Jim; Swanson, Ana; Ewing, Jack; Davenport, Coral

Publication info: Tankersley, Jim; Swanson, Ana; Ewing, Jack; Davenport, Coral. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/push-build-electric-cars-motivating-buyers-falls/docview/2887805830/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: President Biden's signature climate law has stimulated a surge of investment in electric vehicle production across the country, including tens of billions of dollars on battery plants across the South and new assembly lines near the Great Lakes. Based on early evidence, it is succeeding at a goal that economists have long considered difficult and costly: using the power of government to rapidly grow a new industry.
That growth could prove crucial for the other side of the electric vehicle equation: enticing more consumers to buy them. That's because Mr. Biden's law effectively hitches the future affordability of electric vehicles to automakers' willingness to source and build them in the United States.
For now, the climate law has not drastically affected trends in electric vehicle sales. Americans are poised to buy one million electric cars and trucks for the first time this year, continuing a steady trend of increased market share for electric vehicles that began years ago.
The law's most pronounced immediate effect on the consumer market appears to be unintended: driving many electric car shoppers to lease vehicles instead of buying them. That's because a Treasury Department regulation enables auto dealers to avoid the law's made-in-America requirements for cars that they buy and then lease to customers. That allows shoppers to effectively reap the full benefits of the federal tax break for models that otherwise would not qualify.
Still, analysts say, electric vehicle sales are projected to jump sharply under the right conditions. Automakers would need to continue to invest in battery and assembly plants. Administration officials must speed the deployment of charging stations meant to ease the logistics of owning and driving an electric vehicle.
Mr. Biden is trying to jump-start the electric vehicle market as the global transition to cleaner fuels is accelerating more quickly than expected. That includes the switch to electric vehicles, which are a cornerstone of efforts to reduce emissions in the sector of the U.S. economy that emits the most greenhouse gases: transportation. Government policy missteps could slow or stall that growth.
The administration's policies to boost electric vehicles aren't just aimed at climate change. They also seek to support middle-class jobs for Americans in the auto industry. In a best-case scenario for the administration, those goals work together. The more automakers do to meet the made-in-America requirements in the climate law, the faster the electric vehicle industry will grow to dominate the U.S. auto market.
That relationship is primarily a function of cost. Without an American supply chain, electric vehicles can't qualify for the full $ 7,500 consumer tax credit the law created. Without the full credit, a typical electric vehicle remains less affordable than a conventional automobile. Those requirements don't apply to the leasing market, which explains the shift in consumer preferences.
"I think it's going to be a long time before you see your local waitress come in and buy an E.V. -- they're just too expensive," said Rhett Ricart, the chief executive and owner of the Ricart Automotive Group in Columbus, Ohio, and a former president of the National Automobile Dealers Association.
"If we're going to get people to buy these electric vehicles in volume," he said, "we will need more financial assistance from the manufacturers or the government."
Tax credits spur U.S. investment
The climate law spurred investment at a pivotal moment for American automakers. After a prolonged strike, union autoworkers won new concessions for workers who assemble electric vehicles and produce batteries at some plants that the three largest American carmakers run.
Republican leaders and some Wall Street analysts are calling on carmakers to abandon their plans and refocus on gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles. They claim the vehicle transition is effectively subsidizing China, which leads the world in electric-car technology and is home to vast stockpiles of critical minerals needed for batteries and other components.
The climate law's champions pitched it as a way to counter China and pull mining and manufacturing to the United States. That group included Senator Joe Manchin III, the West Virginia Democrat who cast the decisive vote for the bill and wielded outsize influence on its every detail.
Under the law, companies get lucrative tax credits for investing in electric vehicle production and component parts like advanced batteries. Consumers get up to $ 7,500 for buying an electric vehicle. But at Mr. Manchin's insistence, vehicles qualify for the credit only if they meet certain standards for how much of their content is made and mined in America, or in certain allied countries. Those standards get stricter every year.
Lobbyists from American auto companies warned that those requirements were so stringent that most electric vehicles -- other than Teslas -- would not qualify. Even Tesla vehicles could soon be excluded.
To avoid losing out, automakers have announced new battery projects across the country, particularly near Detroit and through the Southeast. They include plans from foreign automakers like Hyundai that were immediately excluded from the credit but want buyers to have access to it in the future.
"The response has happened faster than I think anyone would have anticipated on the supply side in anticipation of demand increasing," Wally Adeyemo, the deputy Treasury secretary, said in an interview. "I think the reason you're seeing these investments is that, ultimately, these companies see that over time, these credits are going to be quite effective in getting consumers to make a decision."
One area where companies have been slower to invest in the United States is in the raw materials and parts needed for batteries, including mines producing minerals like cobalt, and factories making chemicals that go into batteries. In the coming weeks, the Biden administration is expected to issue more rules about when these parts can be sourced from China and other countries, which are likely to determine where many companies base new projects.
Another proposed Biden regulation, from the Environmental Protection Agency, is encouraging automakers' investment in electric vehicle production. It seeks to ensure that two-thirds of all new passenger cars sold in the United States will be all-electric within a decade.
A Treasury rule encourages leasing
There is little evidence that the climate law has supercharged consumer demand for electric vehicles. American consumers bought about 873,000 electric vehicles in the first nine months of the year, according to Kelley Blue Book estimates. That put the country on a pace to surpass one million electric vehicle sales this year for the first time, but electric vehicles still account for not even one in 10 new cars and trucks sold in the United States.
The pace of that E.V. sales growth is actually slowing: Through the first nine months of 2022, Kelley Blue Book estimated, sales were up nearly 70 percent from the same period in 2021.
The climate law "certainly helped" with electric vehicle sales, said Mike Stanton, the president of the National Automobile Dealers Association. But, he said, "we were hoping for more."
The law has had a mixed effect for consumers and automakers. The federal government previously offered credits to electric car buyers but capped the total that individual automakers could qualify for. Both Tesla and General Motors, the nation's largest sellers of electric vehicles, exceeded that cap, meaning some consumers could not claim a credit for buying their cars.
The climate law restored credits for several of both companies' electric vehicles. It also eliminated credits for many of their competitors, like Hyundai and Kia, that assemble electric cars abroad. As of April, the number of vehicle models that qualify for the full credit had fallen by half compared with how many qualified before the climate law passed. G.M. and Tesla vehicles account for a majority of models that are still eligible for the full credit.
Elaine Buckberg, a former G.M. chief economist who is now a senior fellow at the Salata Institute for Climate and Sustainability at Harvard, wrote in a research brief published in August that years of technological improvements and a consumer aversion to gasoline price spikes had helped electric vehicle sales grow even before the climate law passed.
After Mr. Biden signed the law, she wrote, "sales continued to trend up, with no abrupt shift."
Ms. Buckberg and other researchers, like Chad Bown of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, have noted one big way the law has changed the electric-vehicle market: It has pushed consumers toward leasing, not buying. That's because the Treasury Department allowed leased vehicles to be treated differently under the law's domestic content requirements. Companies like Hyundai and Kia are able to capture the full $ 7,500 credit for their electric models -- and pass that on to consumers -- if they lease them.
The auto dealers association calculates that more than half of electric vehicle transactions in the United States -- excluding Teslas, which are not sold through traditional dealership models -- are leased, a large jump from a year ago.
"For a dealer, that's easier for me," said Mr. Ricart, whose holdings in Columbus include a Hyundai dealership.
It is unclear how much the tax credit changes have otherwise influenced consumers' electric vehicle choices. Tesla's sales have grown by a quarter this year -- but on top of the tax credit re-qualification, it also slashed prices.
Auto dealers and administration officials are hopeful that a feature of the law that will take effect on Jan. 1 will further increase sales. It will allow qualified buyers to immediately pass their electric vehicle credit on to a dealer, essentially using it as a down payment, instead of waiting until they file a tax return to receive money back.
Chargers remain a critical part of the equation
Two years after Congress passed a law that included $ 5 billion to install fast chargers at 50-mile intervals along major highways, only a handful of states have awarded contracts to construct stations. Chargers remain relatively scarce on most highways.
Spotty availability of fast chargers is shaping up as one of the main reasons that people hesitate to buy electric vehicles. Most owners charge at home. But on longer voyages, they need chargers capable of charging a car in half an hour to 45 minutes.
Kara Womack, an Atlanta resident, owns a Hyundai electric car but is thinking of trading it in for a hybrid because it's too difficult to drive to visit family in Nashville.
"I don't know if I'm going to be able to find enough chargers to make it," said Ms. Womack, vice president of product at ParkMobile, which advises parking lot operators on where to place chargers. "If you've got an E.V. and you can't take it on a road trip because you can't count on the infrastructure, then it's a challenge."
Last month, modeling that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released predicted that the combination of vehicles qualifying for the consumer tax credits and the eventual build-out of the charging network under the infrastructure law would help electric vehicles make up 42 percent of all vehicles sold in America in less than a decade. That would be more than quadruple today's market share for plug-ins, and significantly higher than the result if Mr. Biden had done nothing to bolster the industry, according to the agency's study.
Billions of private investment dollars could help speed up expanding the charging network. Operators of roadside travel service centers, like Circle K, Pilot Flying J and Sheetz, are installing chargers alongside gas pumps. Carmakers, including G.M. and Mercedes-Benz, are building charging stations. Next year, much of Tesla's charging network -- the largest in the United States -- will open to other vehicles as part of an agreement with Ford, G.M. and other carmakers.
"The states are now rolling and making a lot of progress," said Andrew Dick, business development manager for Electrify America, a charging company. He added, "Things are starting to move very quickly."
Photograph Foreign automakers like Hyundai are planning new factories in the United States. A strike by workers at U.S. carmakers, below, was partly an effort to empower unions at E.V.-related plants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN KAISER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; NICK HAGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1. A17.

Subject: Strategic materials; Consumers; Trends; Electric vehicles; Leasing; Trucks; Manufacturing; Automobile production; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Climate change; Automobile dealers; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Leasing Manufacturing Automobile production Tax credits Automobile sales Automobile dealers Factories

Location: United States--US; China

Company / organization: Name: National Automobile Dealers Association; NAICS: 441110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/08/business/energy-environment/electric-vehicles-biden.html

Title: In Push to Build Electric Cars, Motivating Buyers Falls Short:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 10, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2887805830

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/push-build-electric-cars-motivating-buyers-falls/docview/2887805830/se-2?accountid=2 6463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A New Law Supercharged Electric Car Manufacturing, but Not Sales

Author: Tankersley, Jim; Swanson, Ana; Ewing, Jack; Davenport, Coral

Publication info: Tankersley, Jim; Swanson, Ana; Ewing, Jack; Davenport, Coral. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-law-supercharged-electric-car-manufacturing/docview/2887693747/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden’s signature climate law has stimulated a surge of investment in electric vehicle production across the country, including tens of billions of dollars on battery plants across the South and new assembly lines near the Great Lakes. Based on early evidence, it is succeeding at a goal that economists have long considered difficult and costly: using the power of government to rapidly grow a new industry.
That growth could prove crucial for the other side of the electric vehicle equation: enticing more consumers to buy them. That’s because Biden’s law effectively hitches the future affordability of electric vehicles to automakers’ willingness to source and build them in the United States.
For now, the climate law has not drastically affected trends in electric vehicle sales. Americans are poised to buy 1 million electric cars and trucks for the first time this year, continuing a steady trend of increased market share for electric vehicles that began years ago.
The law’s most pronounced immediate effect on the consumer market appears to be unintended: driving many electric car shoppers to lease vehicles instead of buying them. That’s because a Treasury Department regulation enables auto dealers to avoid the law’s made-in-America requirements for cars that they buy and then lease to customers. That allows shoppers to effectively reap the full benefits of the federal tax break for models that otherwise would not qualify.
Still, analysts say, electric vehicle sales are projected to jump sharply under the right conditions. Automakers would need to continue to invest in battery and assembly plants. Administration officials must speed the deployment of charging stations meant to ease the logistics of owning and driving an electric vehicle.
Biden is trying to jump-start the electric vehicle market as the global transition to cleaner fuels is accelerating more quickly than expected. That includes the switch to electric vehicles, which are a cornerstone of efforts to reduce emissions in the sector of the U.S. economy that emits the most greenhouse gases: transportation. Government policy missteps could slow or stall that growth.
The administration’s policies to boost electric vehicles aren’t just aimed at climate change. They also seek to support middle-class jobs for Americans in the auto industry. In a best-case scenario for the administration, those goals work together. The more automakers do to meet the made-in-America requirements in the climate law, the faster the electric vehicle industry will grow to dominate the U.S. auto market.
That relationship is primarily a function of cost. Without a U.S. supply chain, electric vehicles can’t qualify for the full $7,500 consumer tax credit the law created. Without the full credit, a typical electric vehicle remains less affordable than a conventional automobile. Those requirements don’t apply to the leasing market, which explains the shift in consumer preferences.
“I think it’s going to be a long time before you see your local waitress come in and buy an EV — they’re just too expensive,” said Rhett Ricart, CEO and owner of the Ricart Automotive Group in Columbus, Ohio, and a former president of the National Automobile Dealers Association.
“If we’re going to get people to buy these electric vehicles in volume,” he said, “we will need more financial assistance from the manufacturers or the government.”
Tax credits spur U.S. investment
The climate law spurred investment at a pivotal moment for American automakers. After a prolonged strike, union autoworkers won new concessions for workers who assemble electric vehicles and produce batteries at some plants that the three largest American carmakers run.
Republican leaders and some Wall Street analysts are calling on carmakers to abandon their plans and refocus on gas-guzzling SUVs. They claim the vehicle transition is effectively subsidizing China, which leads the world in electric-car technology and is home to vast stockpiles of critical minerals needed for batteries and other components.
The climate law’s champions pitched it as a way to counter China and pull mining and manufacturing to the United States. That group included Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., who cast the decisive vote for the bill and wielded outsize influence on its every detail.
Under the law, companies get lucrative tax credits for investing in electric vehicle production and component parts like advanced batteries. Consumers get up to $7,500 for buying an electric vehicle. But at Manchin’s insistence, vehicles qualify for the credit only if they meet certain standards for how much of their content is made and mined in America, or in certain allied countries. Those standards get stricter every year.
Lobbyists from U.S. auto companies warned that those requirements were so stringent that most electric vehicles — other than Teslas — would not qualify. Even Tesla vehicles could soon be excluded.
To avoid losing out, automakers have announced new battery projects across the country, particularly near Detroit and through the Southeast. They include plans from foreign automakers like Hyundai that were immediately excluded from the credit but want buyers to have access to it in the future.
“The response has happened faster than I think anyone would have anticipated on the supply side in anticipation of demand increasing,” Wally Adeyemo, the deputy Treasury secretary, said in an interview. “I think the reason you’re seeing these investments is that, ultimately, these companies see that over time, these credits are going to be quite effective in getting consumers to make a decision.”
One area where companies have been slower to invest in the United States is in the raw materials and parts needed for batteries, including mines producing minerals like cobalt, and factories making chemicals that go into batteries. In the coming weeks, the Biden administration is expected to issue more rules about when these parts can be sourced from China and other countries, which are likely to determine where many companies base new projects.
Another proposed Biden regulation, from the Environmental Protection Agency, is encouraging automakers’ investment in electric vehicle production. It seeks to ensure that two-thirds of all new passenger cars sold in the United States will be all-electric within a decade.
A Treasury rule encourages leasing
There is little evidence that the climate law has supercharged consumer demand for electric vehicles. American consumers bought about 873,000 electric vehicles in the first nine months of the year, according to Kelley Blue Book estimates. That put the country on a pace to surpass 1 million electric vehicle sales this year for the first time, but electric vehicles still account for not even 1 in 10 new cars and trucks sold in the United States.
The pace of that EV sales growth is actually slowing. Through the first nine months of 2022, Kelley Blue Book estimated, sales were up nearly 70% from the same period in 2021.
The climate law “certainly helped” with electric vehicle sales, said Mike Stanton, president of the National Automobile Dealers Association. But, he said, “we were hoping for more.”
The law has had a mixed effect for consumers and automakers. The federal government previously offered credits to electric car buyers but capped the total that individual automakers could qualify for. Both Tesla and General Motors, the nation’s largest sellers of electric vehicles, exceeded that cap, meaning some consumers could not claim a credit for buying their cars.
The climate law restored credits for several of both companies’ electric vehicles. It also eliminated credits for many of their competitors, such as Hyundai and Kia, that assemble electric cars abroad. As of April, the number of vehicle models that qualify for the full credit had fallen by half compared with how many qualified before the climate law passed. GM and Tesla vehicles account for a majority of models that are still eligible for the full credit.
Elaine Buckberg, a former GM chief economist who is now a senior fellow at the Salata Institute for Climate and Sustainability at Harvard, wrote in a research brief published in August that years of technological improvements and a consumer aversion to gasoline price spikes had helped electric vehicle sales grow even before the climate law passed.
After Biden signed the law, she wrote, “sales continued to trend up, with no abrupt shift.”
Buckberg and other researchers, like Chad Bown of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, have noted one big way the law has changed the electric vehicle market: It has pushed consumers toward leasing, not buying. That’s because the Treasury Department allowed leased vehicles to be treated differently under the law’s domestic content requirements. Companies such as Hyundai and Kia are able to capture the full $7,500 credit for their electric models — and pass that on to consumers — if they lease them.
The auto dealers association calculates that more than half of electric vehicle transactions in the United States — excluding Teslas, which are not sold through traditional dealership models — are leased, a large jump from a year ago.
“For a dealer, that’s easier for me,” said Ricart, whose holdings in Columbus include a Hyundai dealership.
It is unclear how much the tax credit changes have otherwise influenced consumers’ electric vehicle choices. Tesla’s sales have grown by one-quarter this year — but on top of the tax credit re-qualification, it also slashed prices.
Auto dealers and administration officials are hopeful that a feature of the law that will take effect on Jan. 1 will further increase sales. It will allow qualified buyers to immediately pass their electric vehicle credit on to a dealer, essentially using it as a down payment, instead of waiting until they file a tax return to receive money back.
Chargers remain a critical part of the equation
Two years after Congress passed a law that included $5 billion to install fast chargers at 50-mile intervals along major highways, only a handful of states have awarded contracts to construct stations. Chargers remain relatively scarce on most highways.
Spotty availability of fast chargers is shaping up as one of the main reasons that people hesitate to buy electric vehicles. Most owners charge at home. But on longer voyages, they need chargers capable of charging a car in half an hour to 45 minutes.
Kara Womack, an Atlanta resident, owns a Hyundai electric car but is thinking of trading it in for a hybrid because it’s too difficult to drive to visit family in Nashville, Tennessee.
“I don’t know if I’m going to be able to find enough chargers to make it,” said Womack, vice president of product at ParkMobile, which advises parking lot operators on where to place chargers. “If you’ve got an EV and you can’t take it on a road trip because you can’t count on the infrastructure, then it’s a challenge.”
Last month, modeling that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released predicted that the combination of vehicles qualifying for the consumer tax credits and the eventual build-out of the charging network under the infrastructure law would help electric vehicles make up 42% of all vehicles sold in the United States in less than a decade. That would be more than quadruple today’s market share for plug-ins, and significantly higher than the result if Biden had done nothing to bolster the industry, according to the agency’s study.
Billions of private investment dollars could help speed up expanding the charging network. Operators of roadside travel service centers, such as Circle K, Pilot Flying J and Sheetz, are installing chargers alongside gas pumps. Carmakers, including GM and Mercedes-Benz, are building charging stations. Next year, much of Tesla’s charging network — the largest in the United States — will open to other vehicles as part of an agreement with Ford, GM and other carmakers.
“The states are now rolling and making a lot of progress,” said Andrew Dick, business development manager for Electrify America, a charging company. He added, “Things are starting to move very quickly.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Manufacturing; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Automobile sales Automobile dealers

Location: China; United States--US; Ohio

Company / organization: Name: National Automobile Dealers Association; NAICS: 441110

Identifier / keyword: Columbus (Ohio); Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Kelley Blue Book Co; National Automobile Dealers Assn; Batteries; Mines And Mining; Infrastructure (Public Works); Presidential Transition (Us); Harvard University; Hyundai Motor Co; Stockpiling; Stanton, Mike; Pilot Travel Centers Llc; Air Pollution; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Consumer Behavior; Elections; Metals And Minerals; Road Trips; Politics And Government; Lakes; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Automobiles; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Ford Motor Co; West Virginia; General Motors; Environment; Personal Finances; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Ohio; Environmental Protection Agency; Treasury Department; Sustainability (Journal); United States Politics And Government; Global Warming; Law And Legislation; Mercedes Benz; International Relations; Adeyemo, Adewale; Atlanta (Ga); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Automobile Service And Charging Stations; Factories And Manufacturing; Chemicals; Stocks And Bonds; States (Us); Real Estate (Commercial); Institute For International Economics; Great Lakes; Sheetz Inc; Nashville (Tenn); Labor And Jobs; Conservation Of Resources; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Electrify America Llc; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Economics (Theory And Philosophy); Tennessee; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Manchin, Joe Iii; Business; Strikes; American Jobs Plan (2021); Congressional Budget Office; United States Economy; Biden, Joseph R Jr; China; Peterson, Peter G, Institute For International Economics

Title: A New Law Supercharged Electric Car Manufacturing, but Not Sales

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 9, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-09T23:49:40Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2887693747

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-law-supercharged-electric-car-manufacturing/docview/2887693747/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Flexible Yet Firm: Building A Vision: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Lubell, Sam

Publication info: Lubell, Sam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/flexible-yet-firm-building-vision/docview/2878191807/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Joshua Ramus really doesn't want to talk about Rem Koolhaas anymore.
Seventeen years ago Ramus, then 36, a diligent, buzz-cut partner at the New York office of Koolhaas's famed architecture firm, OMA, bought out Koolhaas, took the helm of the staff of 35, and rebranded the office Rex. Since then, through recessions, competition near-misses, abandoned projects, the Covid-19 pandemic and the more routine challenges that confront new firms, he's been wrestling with sky-high expectations, lingering doubts, and Koolhaas's XL-sized shadow. With two groundbreaking new buildings, he is primed to -- finally -- emerge from all of this.
The structures are the Perelman Performing Arts Center at ground zero in Lower Manhattan, which opened last month, and the Lindemann Performing Arts Center at Brown University, which opens in Providence, R.I., on Oct. 19. It's not hyperbole to say that both are achievements that mask brain-twisting, herculean complexity behind serene simplicity. (Michael Kimmelman, in his review in The New York Times, called Perelman, "the most glamorous civic building to land in New York in years.") Both also take theater architecture into new territory, pushing the notion of flexibility to its limits; to the point where you wonder if the whole idea of a theater -- or any building for that matter -- might be changing with them.
These are the types of buildings that were more or less expected of Ramus almost two decades ago, largely due to his pedigree (Yale, Harvard Graduate School of Design, OMA), the success of buildings he helped lead with Koolhaas (particularly the acclaimed Seattle Central Library), and the track record of so many former OMA staffers (like Zaha Hadid, Bjarke Ingels, and Jeanne Gang, who all started their firms in their early 30s.) Ramus was touted as The Next Big Thing. What could go wrong?
In 2008, Esquire called Ramus "The Young Savior of American Architecture." At the time Ramus and Rex were working on a handful of buildings that most designers could only dream of. That included Museum Plaza, a 62-story, $ 397 million skyscraper in Louisville, Ky., that linked varied towers containing a hotel, apartments and offices, with a glazed public "island" 24 stories in the air.
But all didn't go according to plan. Even as the accolades were pouring in, the global economy was imploding, and the Great Recession would vaporize all but one of the nascent office's small stable of projects. Rex went from 65 to 8 people in a single month, Ramus told me last month, eventually shrinking to four. Adding to the injury, Ramus's marriage to Annemarie Prince would fall apart. (The divorce prompted a child custody dispute and lead the designer to change his name from Prince-Ramus back to Ramus.)
"There was a moment when I thought about folding. I wasn't sure I was going to be able to pay salaries, pay the rent, or pay my mortgage," Ramus said in his strong baritone voice about his rock bottom moment at the depth of the recession. "But there was no way I was going to do it." What got him through, he says -- and what has buoyed him through the unrealistic expectations, the comparisons to Koolhaas, the lost projects, single fatherhood -- was what he calls his "bullheaded determination," along with his spectacular love of process. Just methodically grinding out what you have to do and letting the other pieces fall into place.
"I just kept going," he puts it. In lectures he tells his students: "there's going to be a moment when the bottom falls out and you are going to be in your underwear at your dining room table and you are just going to do what you do." The architect Erez Ella, 52, who helped Ramus found Rex and now leads his own Tel Aviv-based firm, HQ Architects, said: "If something is unreachable he will just try harder to get it. He will take on a challenge until it's solved."
Ramus's unrelenting, even ascetic focus has always been an anchor in his life. Through his childhood he channeled it into music, becoming an elite French horn player. He played in the Seattle Youth Symphony Orchestra, making plans to become a professional musician. At Yale, where he received his undergraduate degree, it was honed as a member of the crew team. "There's something about the obsessiveness and intensity," he said. "You're trying to perfect a thing by doing something over and over and over almost infinitely. You have to ride the edge between near explosion and meditative calm."
He would reach the 1996 U.S. Olympic trials, making the semifinals in the single scull. And then he truly found a home in the Netherlands at OMA, where he was surrounded by people who were equally smart and unrelenting. He was mentored by Koolhaas, who drove his staff to the limit, questioned every convention, trusted associates with vast responsibility, and would only take no for an answer in the face of a mountain of evidence. "Your frame of reference totally changes," Ramus said. "You now know what it's like to work at the highest level."
Ramus, now living in the Financial District while renovating his loft in Tribeca, still manages to row every day, either on a machine or in the water ("If I don't do it my skin starts to crawl," he said). And despite his chiseled, severe looks (he was recently featured in Vogue posing, clenched jawed, hands in pockets, black suit over black V-neck T-shirt alongside a couture-clad model) and lecture circuit charisma (he wows clients and Ted attendees alike with meticulous presentations), at heart Ramus is a details guy who calls mission statements "deeply beautiful," and loading docks "sexy." Don't go on a building tour with him (even on a video call) unless you have a couple of hours to spare.
"Joshua is incredibly invested in how something gets pulled off. That's when he lights up the most -- describing the underbelly and the technical side," said Sarah Whiting, the dean of architecture at Harvard Graduate School Of Design, who has known Ramus for about 20 years. Understanding and orchestrating each element of a building, Ramus told me, helps keep his vision whole.
Joseph Mizzi, the president of Sciame Construction, the Perelman's construction manager, recalls his team sending thousands of images of marble pieces, both backlit and not, from a quarry in Portugal for Ramus and his team in New York to arrange inside a digital mock-up. Staring up at the hypnotic finished product one evening this month, Ramus, whose temporary apartment is just three blocks north of the Perelman, told me he would stop by its construction site every day. "Nothing could be more of a nightmare for a contractor," he laughed.
A philosophy major in college, Ramus loves a good argument. One that has been so intensely stress tested and reformulated that it is basically leak proof.
Bill Rauch, the artistic director of the Perelman, remembers debating stairway wall colors day after day for about six months, before settling on purplish gray.
"He's very smart, really rigorous, and really inflexible, which in certain conditions is extremely useful," said Koolhaas. (He added that "I have no resentment" about their professional breakup. "It had become obvious that there was a kind of situation of tension about owning the office that was not productive," he said.)
Rex's buildings are radical, but not in an in-your-face way. They grow out of a methodical but searching process, addressing technical constraints while leaving room for serendipity and the ability to go back to the drawing board as ideas evolve.
The Perelman (also called the PAC), a commission that Rex won in a 2015 competition after the initial designer, Frank Gehry, was dropped, was shaped by a setting that is not just a terrorist target, across from a hallowed memorial, but sits over four stories of infrastructure -- train and subway tracks, loading docks, ventilation shafts -- through which its branching support columns can only touch down in seven locations.
In response, the architects shifted the three-level structure to sit slightly off-axis, lifted its lobby 21 feet over a grand stair and black granite base, and clad its facade in glass-sandwiched, translucent, cream-colored marble squares hung from a massive steel truss that maximizes blast resistance. Ramus wanted the building to feel tactile, and become a "mystery box," hinting at surprises inside. Rex has made it a sober counterpoint to the memorial during the day that lights up like a veined amber beacon at night. (From the inside, its iridescent walls come alive as the sun and clouds shift.)
At the Lindemann, a shimmering, fluted (and fluted again) aluminum curtain wall nods to the intricacy of its historic campus surroundings and evokes a billowing stage curtain disappearing into the ground. To avoid the challenges of the location -- including vibration from a bus tunnel and an exceedingly large footprint on Brown's modestly scaled campus -- the firm scrapped its plan and started over, well into the process -- convincing school leaders to use another site that was home to Brown's history department: the 1872 Sharpe House, which was moved to another location. The firm created a raised, wedge-shaped glass-wrapped lobby that beckons visitors and glows from within at night.
These two buildings embody Ramus's obsession with detailing and "exquisite restraint," a term he uses to describe the work of one of his idols, the midcentury architect Gordon Bunshaft. Inside, their auditoria are advanced machines that can enable virtually any type of creativity -- at a show's earliest conception or during the performance itself. The Perelman's three theaters (plus a rehearsal room) can be shifted and merged into 10 different proportions and arranged into 62 seating configurations via movable walls, blinds, stages, balconies, floors, and more.
The Lindemann has only a handful of configurations, but they can be transformed to accommodate wildly different uses -- ensemble music, dance, theater, mixed media, cinema, narrative arts, spoken word. Ramus calls it one of the most automated buildings in the world. Even the connection between the performance space and the campus outside can change, via movable perimeter drapes.
The guts of these buildings look like futuristic factories filled with industrial mechanisms, used in unfamiliar ways: gantries, pullies, engines, hoists, steel tracks, bridges, and spiraling lift mechanisms. Ramus can rattle off adaptable supporting systems as if he were a mechanical engineer.
Pragmatic flexibility is another central pillar of Ramus's story. His parents divorced when he was young, and between kindergarten and 12th grade he attended seven different schools across North Carolina, Virginia, and Washington State. This flexibility was sharpened at OMA, via undertakings like the Dee and Charles Wyly Theater in Dallas, a collaboration between OMA and Rex. Here, Ramus and his colleagues developed the idea of "presets," like you see on a car radio, offering practical, preconfigured spatial choices. The Wyly theater had only four presets. Ramus calls the Perelman "Wyly on steroids."
The new theaters, and their designer, have been lauded by Rauch and Craig Barton, the university architect at Brown, who not only point to Ramus's clear vision but his ability to keep teams rallying around that vision, even when doubts creep in.
But they are, it should be said, a self-selecting group. It takes certain types of passionate, risk-taking clients to go on this journey. "He needs top A clients to be able to do his vision. A B client won't have the money, time, and commitment," said Matthias Hollwich, the founder of HWKN Architects, a longtime friend and former OMA colleague.
In 2015, The Times reported the Perelman's budget to be $ 200 million. In 2020, the PAC president Leslie Koch ordered what she called a "forensic" examination of the project's costs, resulting in a final $ 500 million budget. She pointed to myriad factors for the change, like an ambitious initial brief, inflation, supply chain issues, Covid-19, and the unique challenges of the site. But she acknowledged that the design's novelty and complexity played a role. "It was a long and complicated journey," she said. "Innovating in multiple directions introduces stress. My hair was a different color when I started."
"I found him to be challenging in a way that was energizing," said the architect David Rockwell, whose firm designed the Perelman's wavy-ceilinged lobby and hospitality spaces. He points to "lots of hashing" over color, pattern, lighting, flow and an evolving program that would come to blend varied entry floor spaces and a lobby stage -- its own performing space. "Joshua is incredibly passionate, and quite obsessive, which I appreciate," he noted. "I felt we needed to be equally obsessive about details, clarity, and having a point of view and narrative."
Ramus says that as he has matured he's become more willing to admit when he's wrong. (Though often after the fact.) And he's gotten better at narrowing his "must-have" elements. "We've learned to lean into a few really strong ideas and are prepared to lose everything else," he said.
With the two new buildings punctuating a growing list of completed work -- including innovative office buildings in Washington, D.C. and New York -- it appears that he's fulfilling his early potential, even if it's a little later than some expected. But those expectations may have been unrealistic to begin with.
"He's had to build his proof that he didn't need Rem. It takes a long time," Hollwich said. "This is a milestone for him. Now he is going to bend clients toward him," he added, "changing what clients can imagine."
New work in the pipeline is already pushing the boundaries of convention, and in many cases proving that convention can be pretty outdated. Two modular towers in Perth, Australia, are designed to adjust to market fluctuation, by shifting individual hotel, office and residential components. Rex's Urban Mobility Centers for Kia in South Korea are set to combine digital retail (including virtual test drives) with exhibition, community and performance functions, reconfigured via demountable walls and infrastructure. And two mixed use towers at the Domino Sugar complex in Brooklyn are set to employ mesmerizing patterns and reflections to help address issues of privacy, light and views.
Now 54, Ramus is happy he got a chance to essentially start from scratch after the bottom fell out. To make something that was truly his own rather than letting the seeds of OMA just grow and grow. "I could rebuild with intention," he said.
He is trying to ensure that as commissions arrive, Rex doesn't grow so huge -- like OMA, which has about 1,500 employees, or Bjarke Ingels Group, which has a staff of 700 -- that he and his fellow office leaders can't maintain oversight or feel excited by every project. The firm's completing construction of its minimalist offices on the 45th floor of 140 Broadway, an elegant modernist Lower Manhattan tower by, yes, Gordon Bunshaft. It will only fit 50 people, for that very reason. Ramus acknowledges this is "not always the best business strategy." (But if there's a compelling case for it, they'll find a way to expand a bit. You know, flexibility.)
"My idea is we'd be humming along at 45 people, having 8 to 10 really, really nice projects at all times that we just love," he said. "That would be Valhalla for me."
Photograph Joshua Ramus helped design the Perelman Performing Arts Center in Lower Manhattan, with its spiraling lift mechanisms and levers that transform theaters into 62 configurations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1); Clockwise from top left: the architect Joshua Ramus; the Perelman Performing Arts Center, designed by Ramus and his firm, Rex; the Lindemann Performing Arts Center by Rex in Providence, R.I.; inside the Lindemann center; the Dee and Charles Wyly Theater in Dallas, a collaboration between OMA and Rex in 2009; Rex's rendering of the Esplanade, to be built in Perth, Australia; and Rex's 2050 M Street, an office building in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; GEORGE ETHEREDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; IWAN BAAN; WARREN JAGGER FOR BROWN UNIVERSITY; IWAN BAAN) (C7) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6, C7.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Orchestras; Buildings; Architects; Performing arts centers

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Architects

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/17/arts/design/joshua-ramus-rex-perelman-lindemann.html

Title: Flexible Yet Firm: Building A Vision:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 18, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878191807

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/flexible-yet-firm-building-vision/docview/2878191807/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Architecture’s ‘Young Savior’ Rebooted After the Bottom Fell Out

Author: Lubell, Sam

Publication info: Lubell, Sam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/architecture-s-young-savior-rebooted-after-bottom/docview/2878151353/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Joshua Ramus really doesn’t want to talk about Rem Koolhaas anymore.
Seventeen years ago, Ramus, then 36, a diligent, buzz-cut partner at the New York office of Koolhaas’ famed architecture firm, OMA, bought out Koolhaas, took the helm of the staff of 35 and rebranded the office Rex. Since then, through recessions, competition near-misses, abandoned projects, the COVID-19 pandemic and the more routine challenges that confront new firms, he’s been wrestling with sky-high expectations, lingering doubts and Koolhaas’ XL-size shadow. With two groundbreaking new buildings, he is primed to — finally — emerge from all of this.
The structures are the Perelman Performing Arts Center at ground zero in lower Manhattan in New York City, which opened last month, and the Lindemann Performing Arts Center at Brown University, which opens in Providence, Rhode Island, on Oct. 19. It’s not hyperbole to say that both are achievements that mask brain-twisting, herculean complexity behind serene simplicity. (Michael Kimmelman, in his review in The New York Times, called Perelman “the most glamorous civic building to land in New York in years.”) Both also take theater architecture into new territory, pushing the notion of flexibility to its limits, to the point where you wonder if the whole idea of a theater — or any building, for that matter — might be changing with them.
These are the types of buildings that were more or less expected of Ramus almost two decades ago, largely due to his pedigree (Yale University, Harvard Graduate School of Design, OMA); the success of buildings he helped lead with Koolhaas (particularly, the acclaimed Seattle Central Library); and the track record of so many former OMA staffers (like Zaha Hadid, Bjarke Ingels and Jeanne Gang, who all started their firms in their early 30s). Ramus was touted as The Next Big Thing . What could go wrong?
In 2008, Esquire called Ramus “The Young Savior of American Architecture.” At the time, Ramus and Rex were working on a handful of buildings that most designers could only dream of. That included Museum Plaza, a 62-story, $397 million skyscraper in Louisville, Kentucky, that linked varied towers containing a hotel, apartments and offices, with a glazed public “island” 24 stories in the air.
But all didn’t go according to plan. Even as the accolades were pouring in, the global economy was imploding, and the Great Recession would vaporize all but one of the nascent office’s small stable of projects. Rex went from 65 to eight people in a single month, Ramus said last month, eventually shrinking to four. Adding to the injury, Ramus’ marriage to Annemarie Prince would fall apart. (The divorce prompted a child custody dispute and lead the designer to change his name from Prince-Ramus back to Ramus.)
“There was a moment when I thought about folding. I wasn’t sure I was going to be able to pay salaries, pay the rent or pay my mortgage,” Ramus said in his strong baritone voice about his rock bottom moment at the depth of the recession. “But there was no way I was going to do it.” What got him through, he said — and what has buoyed him through the unrealistic expectations, the comparisons to Koolhaas, the lost projects, single fatherhood — was what he calls his “bullheaded determination,” along with his spectacular love of process: just methodically grinding out what you have to do and letting the other pieces fall into place.
“I just kept going,” he said. In lectures, he tells his students, “There’s going to be a moment when the bottom falls out, and you are going to be in your underwear at your dining room table, and you are just going to do what you do.” Architect Erez Ella, 52, who helped Ramus found Rex and now leads his own Tel Aviv, Israel-based firm, HQ Architects, said, “If something is unreachable, he will just try harder to get it. He will take on a challenge until it’s solved.”
Ramus’ unrelenting, even ascetic focus has always been an anchor in his life. Through his childhood, he channeled it into music, becoming an elite French horn player. He played in the Seattle Youth Symphony Orchestra, making plans to become a professional musician. At Yale, where he received his undergraduate degree, it was honed as a member of the rowing team. “There’s something about the obsessiveness and intensity,” he said. “You’re trying to perfect a thing by doing something over and over and over almost infinitely. You have to ride the edge between near explosion and meditative calm.”
He would reach the 1996 U.S. Olympic trials, making the semifinals in the single scull. And then he truly found a home in the Netherlands at OMA, where he was surrounded by people who were equally smart and unrelenting. He was mentored by Koolhaas, who drove his staff to the limit, questioned every convention, trusted associates with vast responsibility and would only take no for an answer in the face of a mountain of evidence. “Your frame of reference totally changes,” Ramus said. “You now know what it’s like to work at the highest level.”
Ramus, now living in the Financial District while renovating his loft in Tribeca, still manages to row every day, either on a machine or in the water (“If I don’t do it, my skin starts to crawl,” he said). And despite his chiseled, severe looks (he was recently featured in Vogue posing, clenched-jawed, hands in pockets, black suit over black V-neck T-shirt alongside a couture-clad model) and lecture circuit charisma (he wows clients and TED attendees alike with meticulous presentations), at heart, Ramus is a details guy who calls mission statements “deeply beautiful” and loading docks “sexy.” Don’t go on a building tour with him (even on a video call) unless you have a couple of hours to spare.
“Joshua is incredibly invested in how something gets pulled off. That’s when he lights up the most — describing the underbelly and the technical side,” said Sarah Whiting, the dean of architecture at Harvard Graduate School of Design, who has known Ramus for about 20 years. Understanding and orchestrating each element of a building, Ramus said, helps keep his vision whole.
Joseph Mizzi, the president of Sciame Construction, the Perelman’s construction manager, recalls his team sending thousands of images of marble pieces, both backlit and not, from a quarry in Portugal for Ramus and his team in New York to arrange inside a digital mock-up. Staring up at the hypnotic finished product one evening this month, Ramus, whose temporary apartment is just three blocks north of the Perelman, said he would stop by its construction site every day. “Nothing could be more of a nightmare for a contractor,” he said, laughing.
A philosophy major in college, Ramus loves a good argument — one that has been so intensely stress-tested and reformulated that it is basically leakproof.
Bill Rauch, the artistic director of the Perelman, remembers debating stairway wall colors day after day for about six months before settling on purplish gray.
“He’s very smart, really rigorous and really inflexible, which in certain conditions is extremely useful,” said Koolhaas. (He added that “I have no resentment” about their professional breakup. “It had become obvious that there was a kind of situation of tension about owning the office that was not productive,” he said.)
Rex’s buildings are radical, but not in an in-your-face way. They grow out of a methodical but searching process, addressing technical constraints while leaving room for serendipity and the ability to go back to the drawing board as ideas evolve.
The Perelman (also called the PAC), a commission that Rex won in a 2015 competition after the initial designer, Frank Gehry, was dropped, was shaped by a setting that is not just a terrorist target, across from a hallowed memorial, but sits over four stories of infrastructure — train and subway tracks, loading docks, ventilation shafts — through which its branching support columns can only touch down in seven locations.
In response, the architects shifted the three-level structure to sit slightly off-axis; lifted its lobby 21 feet over a grand stair and black granite base; and clad its facade in glass-sandwiched, translucent, cream-colored marble squares hung from a massive steel truss that maximizes blast resistance. Ramus wanted the building to feel tactile and become a “mystery box,” hinting at surprises inside. Rex has made it a sober counterpoint to the memorial during the day that lights up like a veined amber beacon at night. (From the inside, its iridescent walls come alive as the sun and clouds shift.)
At the Lindemann, a shimmering, fluted (and fluted again) aluminum curtain wall nods to the intricacy of its historic campus surroundings and evokes a billowing stage curtain disappearing into the ground. To avoid the challenges of the location — including vibration from a bus tunnel and an exceedingly large footprint on Brown’s modestly scaled campus — the firm scrapped its plan and started over, well into the process — convincing school leaders to use another site that was home to Brown’s history department: the 1872 Sharpe House, which was moved to another location. The firm created a raised, wedge-shaped, glass-wrapped lobby that beckons visitors and glows from within at night.
These two buildings embody Ramus’ obsession with detailing and “exquisite restraint,” a term he uses to describe the work of one of his idols, midcentury architect Gordon Bunshaft. Inside, their auditoria are advanced machines that can enable virtually any type of creativity — at a show’s earliest conception or during the performance itself. The Perelman’s three theaters (plus a rehearsal room) can be shifted and merged into 10 different proportions and arranged into 62 seating configurations via movable walls, blinds, stages, balconies, floors and more.
The Lindemann has only a handful of configurations, but they can be transformed to accommodate wildly different uses: ensemble music, dance, theater, mixed media, cinema, narrative arts, spoken word. Ramus calls it one of the most automated buildings in the world. Even the connection between the performance space and the campus outside can change, via movable perimeter drapes.
The guts of these buildings look like futuristic factories filled with industrial mechanisms, used in unfamiliar ways: gantries, pulleys, engines, hoists, steel tracks, bridges and spiraling lift mechanisms. Ramus can rattle off adaptable supporting systems as if he were a mechanical engineer.
Pragmatic flexibility is another central pillar of Ramus’ story. His parents divorced when he was young, and between kindergarten and 12th grade, he attended seven different schools across North Carolina, Virginia and Washington state. This flexibility was sharpened at OMA, via undertakings like the Dee and Charles Wyly Theater in Dallas, a collaboration between OMA and Rex. Here, Ramus and his colleagues developed the idea of “presets,” like you see on a car radio, offering practical, preconfigured spatial choices. The Wyly theater had only four presets. Ramus calls the Perelman “Wyly on steroids.”
The new theaters, and their designer, have been lauded by Rauch and Craig Barton, the university architect at Brown, who not only point to Ramus’ clear vision but his ability to keep teams rallying around that vision, even when doubts creep in.
But they are, it should be said, a self-selecting group. It takes certain types of passionate, risk-taking clients to go on this journey. “He needs top A clients to be able to do his vision. A B client won’t have the money, time and commitment,” said Matthias Hollwich, the founder of HWKN Architects, a longtime friend and former OMA colleague.
In 2015, the Times reported the Perelman’s budget to be $200 million. In 2020, the PAC president Leslie Koch ordered what she called a “forensic” examination of the project’s costs, resulting in a final $500 million budget. She pointed to myriad factors for the change, like an ambitious initial brief, inflation, supply chain issues, COVID-19 and the unique challenges of the site. But she acknowledged that the design’s novelty and complexity played a role. “It was a long and complicated journey,” she said. “Innovating in multiple directions introduces stress. My hair was a different color when I started.”
“I found him to be challenging in a way that was energizing,” said architect David Rockwell, whose firm designed the Perelman’s wavy-ceilinged lobby and hospitality spaces. He points to “lots of hashing” over color, pattern, lighting, flow and an evolving program that would come to blend varied entry floor spaces and a lobby stage — its own performing space. “Joshua is incredibly passionate and quite obsessive, which I appreciate,” he noted. “I felt we needed to be equally obsessive about details, clarity and having a point of view and narrative.”
Ramus, 54, said that as he has matured, he’s become more willing to admit when he’s wrong (although often after the fact). And he’s gotten better at narrowing his “must-have” elements. “We’ve learned to lean into a few really strong ideas and are prepared to lose everything else,” he said.
With the two new buildings punctuating a growing list of completed work — including innovative office buildings in Washington, D.C., and New York — it appears that he’s fulfilling his early potential, even if it’s a little later than some expected. But those expectations may have been unrealistic to begin with.
“He’s had to build his proof that he didn’t need Rem. It takes a long time,” Hollwich said. “This is a milestone for him. Now he is going to bend clients toward him,” he added, “changing what clients can imagine.”
New work in the pipeline is already pushing the boundaries of convention and in many cases proving that convention can be pretty outdated. Two modular towers in Perth, Australia, are designed to adjust to market fluctuation, by shifting individual hotel, office and residential components. Rex’s Urban Mobility Centers for Kia in South Korea are set to combine digital retail (including virtual test drives) with exhibition, community and performance functions, reconfigured via demountable walls and infrastructure. And two mixed-use towers at the Domino Sugar complex in Brooklyn are set to employ mesmerizing patterns and reflections to help address issues of privacy, light and views.
Ramus is happy he got a chance to essentially start from scratch after the bottom fell out, to make something that was truly his own rather than letting the seeds of OMA just grow and grow. “I could rebuild with intention,” he said.
He is trying to ensure that as commissions arrive, Rex doesn’t grow so huge — like OMA, which has about 1,500 employees, or Bjarke Ingels Group, which has a staff of 700 — that he and his fellow office leaders can’t maintain oversight or feel excited by every project. The firm’s completing construction of its minimalist offices on the 45th floor of 140 Broadway, an elegant modernist lower Manhattan tower by, yes, Bunshaft. It will only fit 50 people, for that very reason. Ramus acknowledges this is “not always the best business strategy.” (But if there’s a compelling case for it, they’ll find a way to expand a bit. You know, flexibility.)
“My idea is we’d be humming along at 45 people, having eight to 10 really, really nice projects at all times that we just love,” he said. “That would be Valhalla for me.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Orchestras; Buildings; Marble; Architects; Performing arts centers

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Architects

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Art; Rowing; Education (K 12); Steel And Iron; Ingels, Bjarke; Rockwell, David (1956 ); Building (Construction); Terrorism; Harvard University; Koolhaas, Rem; Arts; Vogue; New York City; Architecture; United States; Entertainment; Yale University; Washington (State); Textiles; Interior Design And Furnishings; Budgets And Budgeting; Child Custody And Support; Rock And Stone; Youth; Kentucky; Oma (Design Firm); Perth (Australia); Financial District (Manhattan, Ny); Wyly, Dee And Charles, Theater; Single Persons; Politics And Government; Automobiles; Seattle (Wash); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Design; Kimmelman, Michael; Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Culture (Arts); South Korea; Bunshaft, Gordon; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; North Carolina; Finances; Recession And Depression; Railroads; Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Music; Hwkn; Rauch, Bill; Portugal; Tel Aviv (Israel); Brown University; Gang, Jeanne; Big (Bjarke Ingels Group); Workplace Environment; Perelman, Ronald O, Performing Arts Center; Gehry, Frank; Park51; Labor And Jobs; Magazines; Transit Systems; Netherlands; Virginia; France; Australia; Tribeca (Manhattan, Ny); Domino Sugar Corp; Louisville (Ky); Esquire (Magazine); Graduate Schools And Students; Hadid, Zaha; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Rhode Island; Street Performers; Washington (Dc); Prince Ramus, Joshua; Colleges And Universities; Mizzi, Joseph G (1966 ); New York Times; Anxiety And Stress; Infrastructure (Public Works); Classical Music; Memory; Olympic Games (2020)

Title: Architecture’s ‘Young Savior’ Rebooted After the Bottom Fell Out

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-17T22:46:45Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878151353

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/architecture-s-young-savior-rebooted-after-bottom/docview/2878151353/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Silly Stepping Into the Uncanny Valley: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Fuhrer, Margaret

Publication info: Fuhrer, Margaret. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silly-stepping-into-uncanny-valley/docview/2873868607/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some dancers have found a niche on TikTok and other platforms imitating video game characters -- moving like a machine's idea of a human.
Watch a TikTok video by @dem_bruddaz, and you might feel a queasy mixture of recognition and disorientation.
You'll see, say, a person running down a street. But wait -- is it a person? Why does he turn at such precise 45-degree angles? Why are his gestures so oddly exaggerated? And is that a Grand Theft Auto theme song playing in the background? Maybe this is a clip from a video game. Or is it some A.I.-generated approximation of a video game?
Though select commenters refuse to believe it, @dem_bruddaz actually are people, the real-life brothers Orlando Murayire, Fernando Shami, Freddy Sheja and Aristide Shema. Based in western France, they've built a global following by imitating, with disquieting accuracy, the ambiguously human movements of characters from the video game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.
There's a reason they're so good at capturing the idiosyncrasies of the game's animation: They're dancers, accustomed to identifying and replicating subtle shadings of movement -- the kinds of details that make their videos so unsettling.
However unreal the clips seem, making them "feels comfortable to us," said Shema, who with his brothers grew up immersed in hip-hop, Afrobeat and dancehall. "They just feel like dancing."
As our screen-filled world seems more like a video game, and sophisticated video games seem more like real life, social media savants have found success with content that deliberately confuses the two. Over the summer, the mainstream internet was both thrilled and flummoxed to discover NPC streamers, creators who earn very real money by repeating the formulaic phrases uttered by video games' "non-player characters," or NPCs ("Mmm, ice cream so good").
But while NPC streaming highlights games' unnatural speech, dancers are particularly adept at moving like a machine's version of a human. That helps creators like Shema and his brothers -- and the Polish dancers Nicole Hoff and Oskar Szymkowski, who create videos in which they move through the world as NPCs -- capture more of what makes video games distinctive, weird and funny. NPC streaming content tends to provoke befuddlement among non-gamers. These dancers' game parodies, which routinely earn millions of views, are easier for the average viewer to laugh and shudder along with.
Dance has always lived at the center of TikTok, which rode to mainstream popularity on a wave of dance challenges. The video game spoofs aren't only on TikTok -- they're also found on Instagram and YouTube -- and not all of their creators are professional dancers. But Dr. Jessica Maddox, an assistant professor at the University of Alabama who studies social media platforms, thinks that the way they use dancers' skills ties into a recent shift in TikTok culture.
"To me, these videos hearken back to the fun, silly earlier aesthetic of TikTok that many people seem eager to return to," Maddox said. It's a pushback against the once-freewheeling app's slow march toward slickness and commercialism. "At the same time," she said, "they obviously take a huge amount of skill and control." They do silliness with a dancer's finesse.
It was dance, not video games, that inspired Hoff and Szymkowski, who use the handle @loczniki, to create their first game parodies. As specialists in a style of popping called animation, which mimics the movements of characters from games, movies and cartoons, the duo has experience channeling digital avatars. Their most popular video series imagines what it would be like to have an NPC girlfriend, capturing the strange quirks of non-player characters from The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. Hoff and Szymkowski discovered the game when it appeared in their YouTube searches for video game glitches.
"All the mistakes -- the character getting stuck somewhere, or walking in one place because there's a wall -- we hadn't played Skyrim, but we knew those would be funny to imitate," Hoff said. (After their videos began to go viral, the pair did start playing Skyrim, searching for further inspiration.)
Why do video game avatars move so oddly? Sometimes the humor derives from the nature of gameplay. In most games, a limited animation system is trying to keep up with the input of a player mashing button after button on a control. That leads to characters doing things real people would never do: crouching suddenly, turning rapidly in different directions, continuing running motions after hitting a wall.
While animators can help those movements look smoother and more natural, doing so often makes playing the game harder. "Gameplay animation is a lot of jigsaw pieces," said Melissa Shim, a senior animator at Riot Games. "In real life, when you stop moving, you gradually come to a stop. But in a game, that gradualness would take away from responsiveness, making the player feel less in control."
Many video game characters also have a floaty quality to their movements, as if drifting underwater. That has partly to do with how animators use data from motion-capture sessions with human actors.
When motion-capture sensors record a person's movements, "there's something lost," Shim said. "There are slight variations and gaps in the data that can make the movement feel softer and slower." Or the issue might be more analog. Motion-capture artists sometimes have to wear bulky battery packs around their waists, which they avoid disturbing by floating their arms slightly away from their bodies -- an NPC signature.
Animation and dance are linked in their close analysis of bodily movement, and some of these issues sound like problems dancers could help solve. Game studios do sometimes bring in dancers, as well as athletes and stunt professionals, for motion-capture sessions. Shim says she'll frequently look at videos of dancers when choreographing complicated attack combinations.
The game-parody videos close a kind of loop: They feature dancers imitating digital avatars based on other talented human movers. (In a particularly surreal twist, earlier this year, Hoff and Szymkowski donned motion-capture suits to create digital NPCs based on their imitations of NPCs.)
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas came out in 2004, and The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim in 2011. Over the last decade-plus, technological improvements have made it easier to address the glitches and peculiarities that made earlier game animation so strange. Rather than manually assembling combinations of motion-capture data to fit various scenarios, for example, animators can now use motion-matching algorithms to scan a large library of data for relevant movement sequences, which both speeds up the animation process and helps create a greater variety of movement.
Since today's video game characters move more naturally, nostalgia -- which TikTok trades in heavily -- is part of the appeal of the Grand Theft Auto and Skyrim spoofs. Shema said he and his brothers deliberately chose to riff on Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas rather than the more recent Grand Theft Auto V. "We wanted more people to relate -- older people who played the game as kids, younger ones who think it looks funny," he said.
The success of these videos has led to notable opportunities for their creators. Shema and his brothers have made Grand Theft Auto-inspired ads for Kia and Gucci. Hoff and Szymkowski built an entire course that will teach you how to move like an NPC, and have appeared in a music video. They're also working on longer scripted NPC films for YouTube.
And these creators continue to make game imitation videos that regularly rack up millions of views and hundreds of thousands of likes. The internet has an insatiable appetite for content that toes the increasingly blurry line between the real and the digital, and dancers are especially good at blurring that line.
"The best compliment we can get on our videos," Hoff said, "is someone saying, 'Oh, at first I thought these were real people. But now I see it's fake. It's from a game."'
Photograph Top, Oskar Szymkowski and Nicole Hoff, who use the handle @loczniki, at home in Bugaj, Poland, and above, striking a pose on a street. They specialize in a style of popping called animation and create video parodies in which they move through the world as NPCs, or non-player characters, in video games. In France, four real-life brothers have built a global following as @dem_bruddaz, imitating characters from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, above left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNA LIMINOWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR8.

Subject: Motion capture; Computer & video games; Dance; Video recordings; Animation; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: France

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/06/arts/dance/tiktok-dancers-imitating-video-game-characters.html

Title: Silly Stepping Into the Uncanny Valley:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 8, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuestdocument ID: 2873868607

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silly-stepping-into-uncanny-valley/docview/2873868607/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Costs of Car Ownership Are Straining Finances: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Depillis, Lydia

Publication info: Depillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costs-car-ownership-are-straining-finances/docview/2873868599/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For millions of Americans, cars are a necessity -- to get to work, to carry children around, to buy food. In recent memory, they've also never been as expensive to own.
According to AAA, the average annual cost in the first five years of new-car ownership rose to $ 12,182 this year, from $ 10,728 last year, reflecting increased purchase prices, maintenance costs and finance charges. That's 16 percent of the median household income, before taxes. (The figure includes depreciation.)
What does that look like in the aggregate? About 92 percent of households have at least one car available to them, and 22 percent have at least three. That comes out to about 223 million personal vehicles, and trillions of dollars a year in spending. By contrast, only $ 79 billion was spent on public transportation in 2019 for both capital and operating expenses.
On a personal level, America's dependence on automobiles means hefty bills, the risk of dangerous crashes and stress. And now, even with strong wage growth and elevated savings in recent years, high sticker prices and escalating interest rates are starting to take a toll: The share of borrowers moving into delinquency jumped in late 2022 and early 2023. Personal vehicles often become workers' largest expense, on par with housing, child care and food.
To understand how car owners are coping, we asked five of them to lay out the expenses associated with their cars. They're a lot higher than people sometimes bargain for. For most, there is no alternative. Brent McCulley is a 33-year-old Realtor in Pompano Beach, Fla., whose family of four requires two cars, making the cost of transportation its largest expense.
Mr. McCulley had been getting along all right in Newark, with one Kia Soul among him, his wife and their young daughter. It was stressful, shuttling the toddler to day care and then getting to his office by 8 a.m., but they made it work with enough public transportation to handle in-between trips.
Florida was a different story. Mr. McCulley was born there and always wanted to return, so they moved to Pompano Beach in early 2022. By that time, after some car swaps, they were driving a 2022 Kia Forte, which he leased for $ 294 per month. They had a baby boy and fewer transit options, so they needed to go car shopping again.
"She could walk to Aldi and get groceries," Mr. McCulley said of his wife. "But beyond that, there's only so much you can do."
Mr. McCulley's credit score had taken a hit after he took on debt to finance the move. So he bought a 2019 Kia Sorento from Carvana at a 12 percent interest rate, which would have required paying $ 7,645 in interest over the course of the loan. A few months later, his credit had improved enough for him to refinance at a 6.6 percent rate, which left the monthly payments at $ 577.
That's only a little more than the average monthly payment for used cars, which reached $ 533 in the second quarter this year, according to TransUnion. The average payment for new cars is $ 741. Both are record highs.
Insurance on both of those cars in Florida comes to $ 459. Gas adds $ 200 or so, bringing the total to around $ 1,530 a month. That's about as much as their rent.
And there's maintenance. After spending five years with a 1992 Buick Century that would break down every other week, Mr. McCulley likes to pay more for new or late-model vehicles because they tend to have fewer issues. Still, the Sorento has required about $ 3,000 in maintenance over the past year -- the front brakes had to be replaced, then the back brakes, and then a flat tire.
Mr. McCulley expects this to be a lucrative year at work, with commissions that should amount to about double Pompano Beach's median household income. But with all their expenses -- including the resumption of mandatory student loan payments, and his son's day care -- they're budgeting carefully. His wife decided to take a job at a veterinarian's office to cover all the bills.
For Mr. McCulley, it's an illustration that even for people who look comfortably middle class, car expenses contribute to a feeling of being overwhelmed.
"Whether you're a millionaire trying to figure out how to allocate your taxes, or whether you're making minimum wage," Mr. McCulley said, "it's all struggle in different kinds of ways." Troy Massey is a 29-year-old Amazon driver in Jacksonville, Fla., who needs a car to go even a few miles but keeps getting underwater on car loans.
A few years ago, debts had piled up while Mr. Massey was attending the University of Central Florida; he lost his financial aid and had to drop out. Juggling too many bills, he fell behind on the loan for his 2013 Honda Civic. In the fall of 2021, it was repossessed -- but because he still owed $ 4,800, the loan balance, he had to keep making payments on a car he didn't own.
Mr. Massey spent most of 2022 without a vehicle. It was technically feasible; he lived only a few miles from where he worked, at Walmart. But the bus wasn't reliable, and when he tried to walk or bike, he'd end up soaked in sweat or a sudden downpour. After a while, he'd had enough.
"I just ended up biting the bullet and saying, 'I need to get another car,"' Mr. Massey said. "I know what happened to the last one, but it's a necessity. If we had some kind of rail system or something like that, it'd be fine. But we don't."
This time, though, getting a car was even more expensive. The cheapest reliable car he could find, a Toyota Corolla with 89,000 miles, cost $ 18,240 including taxes and fees. With a 15.2 percent interest rate and an extended warranty, that left him with monthly payments of $ 451. Looking for insurance, he couldn't find anything less than $ 323 a month for the most basic plan.
Soon after, he switched from Walmart to a Winn-Dixie and took a second job working part time at Amazon, a 35-minute drive from his apartment. Gas for those commutes cost about $ 40 per week, bringing the monthly total to nearly $ 1,000, along with occasional maintenance, like the $ 100 for his last oil change and $ 27 to fix a slowly leaking tire.
"For someone who's making a decent income, that might not be as hard," Mr. Massey said. "But for someone like me who's in the middle of trying to change careers making $ 15.50 an hour, it hits you like a truck."
Mr. Massey thought about selling his Corolla and trying to find something even cheaper. The problem is, he still owes about $ 16,000 on the car, and its book value is only about half that, so he'd have to pay off the difference -- again.
That's an increasingly common experience, as the average used-car loan at origination has reached 123 percent of the vehicle's market value, according to TransUnion. And although overall delinquency on auto loans is low, delinquencies have been climbing quickly since interest rates started increasing in 2022.
In August, he switched to a job driving full time for one of Amazon's delivery contractors making $ 18.75 an hour, which comes to about $ 3,000 a month before taxes. Rent for his apartment with roommates is $ 700, leaving little for food and the credit card bills he's still trying to pay off.
Mr. Massey is building his software programming portfolio so he can start applying for jobs that pay more -- at least enough to afford his car. Jennifer Owings is a 48-year-old school administrator in New York City whose two- to three-hour round-trip commute costs more than $ 1,000 a month.
Ms. Owings loves her job, as an assistant principal at a public elementary school in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. She also loves her home on Staten Island, a condominium with a pool that she bought after a divorce a few years ago, and the community she has developed there.
She does not, however, love the commute -- or how much it costs.
She gets in her 2017 Subaru Outback, which she's paying off in $ 328 installments, and leaves at 5:10 a.m., when the 13 miles over the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge and down the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway are mostly clear (but include tolls totaling $ 175 a month). The afternoon commute is tricky; if she waits too long, it can take two hours. "Any Friday in June, forget about it," Ms. Owings said.
Some expenses are occasional, like maintenance, which Ms. Owings estimates at $ 50 a month on average. So far insurance has covered major damage, like the crash in 2021 that put the car in the shop for weeks, but it costs $ 232 a month. Even minor needs add up, like registration this year, which was $ 138. She's also enrolled in a monthly unlimited carwash plan, which costs $ 23.95.
Parking is the only thing that's free, and some older staff members at her school even drive from Long Island. "I'd say the under-30 crew probably doesn't have their own cars because they can't afford to -- it's too expensive," Ms. Owings said.
She could take a pay cut and return to teaching in a school closer to her house on Staten Island, and save some of the $ 200 a month she spends on gas. But a good boss, leadership opportunities and a school she likes are hard to give up. And public transportation?
"It would actually be faster to take my own kayak -- or to run," said Ms. Owings, who competes in marathons. Instead, as much as she enjoys having the time to catch up with friends, spending continuous hours in a car every day has given her hip pain. "Other people have old sports injuries," she said. "I have a commuting injury." Aydee Joya is a 56-year-old Uber driver living in Arlington, Va., who barely breaks even after accounting for all her expenses.
Technically, Ms. Joya's car is her job, but sometimes it feels as if she's working just to pay for it.
Ms. Joya immigrated from El Salvador as a child and worked for 26 years as a bilingual family assistant in public schools. When her job was eliminated in 2018, a friend told her that driving for taxi apps was a good way to make money on her own schedule, so she started driving for Uber in her 2014 Nissan Rogue.
It worked out all right for a while, and she enjoyed driving. But Ms. Joya quickly learned how many costs are involved in ferrying people around, along with the $ 235 she spends in gas per week.
First came a spent battery, followed by oil changes, tires punctured by potholes, seats soiled by passengers' vomit. In July and August, routine maintenance, including a tire alignment and transmission flush, came to $ 1,433.
"There are things that people don't know that are involved with their car," Ms. Joya said. "We use the brakes all the time. You need to do a lot of repairs, not only tires, not only oil change. All the things inside the car get damaged."
As many ride-hailing drivers do for their protection, she installed a camera in the car at her expense. County property taxes on her vehicle come to $ 566 per year, tolls add about $ 32 a month, and she faces occasional speeding tickets.
Insurance costs $ 603 for six months. In 2022, despite often driving 12 hours a day, she said she made only $ 12,000 after expenses.
In early 2023, as she drove to pick up a passenger, her car was rear-ended. The Nissan was totaled, and Ms. Joya was left with slicing back pain that has made it difficult to drive for long stretches.
Now she drives a 2020 Honda HR-V with a monthly loan payment of $ 536. To make matters worse, she said, Uber isn't paying as much on her fares as it used to. (Uber said drivers' average earnings per hour that they were engaged with a passenger -- that is, not counting time between fares -- had risen since 2019.)
"I'm spending my own money for Uber," while the company makes the profit, Ms. Joya said.
Ms. Joya has thought about moving on from Uber, and at the urging of her husband -- a retired construction worker who worries about her being out late, with several high-profile reports of violence toward ride-hailing drivers recently -- earned a certificate to become a clinical medical assistant. But she hasn't found a job yet, so she keeps driving. Cyndy Knighton is a 58-year-old transportation engineer for the City of Tukwila, Wash., who suffered several car accidents over the past year and a half.
Transportation didn't cost that much for Ms. Knighton, who drove a paid-off 2009 Nissan Altima hybrid -- until April 2022, when a teenager driving on a learner's permit made a left turn in front of her. She broke a wrist and her sternum in the collision, and the car was totaled.
An insurance payout covered the cost of a 14-year-old Subaru and immediately needed repairs, but the vehicle switch subjected her to spiking gasoline prices that she had mostly avoided with her hybrid; the new car required about $ 163 per month to fuel.
In search of a longer-term solution, Ms. Knighton decided to order a new hybrid Toyota Highlander that could handle her steep driveway even during the rare snow and transport her four Samoyeds, which she breeds and occasionally enters in dog shows.
That car, however, got snarled in pandemic supply chain issues. The 2022 edition was converted into a 2023, with a slightly higher base price. Then in March, Ms. Knighton was hit again -- her Subaru was rear-ended on Interstate 5 heading into Seattle, resulting in a concussion and another wrecked vehicle.
This time, with used cars in short supply, she paid about $ 8,200 -- more than the $ 6,200 insurance payout -- to buy a 2001 Highlander with poor gas mileage. To add additional insurance protection, she's now paying $ 158 a month in premiums.
Treatment for her injuries has racked up more than $ 86,000 in medical bills, which her employer's health insurance has covered, other than her $ 750 in co-payments. In September, after more than a year of wrangling with her car insurance company, she finally heard she would receive insurance payouts worth $ 80,000 after lawyers' fees.
That will be enough to buy the new Highlander outright, at $ 62,350 including taxes. But Ms. Knighton would never have chosen to finance a new car that way. Aside from the pain and continuing physical therapy, the psychic trauma of repeated accidents takes its own toll. Small shocks on the road -- like when she had to slam on the brakes recently, sending one of her dogs into the windshield -- can bring on tears.
"I get the irony, that I'm a transportation professional and I'm afraid to drive," Ms. Knighton said. "To have that lurking there, that could break through at any random time for any reason, is debilitating. It's an emotional, intellectual cost that is intangible."
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE KEITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALFONSO DURAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DUSTIN MILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; GRANT HINDSLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALYSSA SCHUKAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6; BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Student loans; Public transportation; Interest rates; Family income; Cost control; Budgets; Personal profiles; Delinquency; Vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Interest rates Cost control Budgets Delinquency

Location: Florida; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/05/business/cars-cost-more-than-you-think-heres-what-auto-ownership-looks-like-for-five-drivers.html

Title: The Costs of Car Ownership Are Straining Finances:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 8, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2873868599

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costs-car-ownership-are-straining-finances/docview/2873868599/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2873140232/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: MEDIA
Fortune's Chief Executive Will Step Down in 2024
Alan Murray, the chief executive of Fortune, announced on Wednesday that he would step down next year. In a note to staff members, Mr. Murray said he had agreed with Fortune's owner and board that he would help the company with a transition to new leadership and then leave his role at the end of April. He said that during his tenure, Fortune had been established as an independent company, expanded its audience and revenue, and "produced three straight years of profits." Mr. Murray, 68, joined Fortune as the top editor in 2014. Before he joined Fortune, he was the president of the Pew Research Foundation and worked at The Wall Street Journal for nearly 20 years. He said in his note on Wednesday that he had no plans to retire after he stepped down and that Mr. Jiaravanon had asked him to consider staying on in a different role. KATIE ROBERTSON
AUTOMOBILES
Hyundai and Kia to Use Tesla's Charging System
Hyundai and Kia say that they are adopting North American Charging Standard ports for their electric vehicles in the U.S. and Canada, which will give the vehicles access to thousands of Tesla Superchargers across the two countries and Mexico. Tesla's Superchargers are coveted by other automakers because it has more direct current fast-charging plugs in the U.S. than any other network, and its stations are in prime locations along freeway travel corridors. Hyundai Motor North America said Thursday that new Hyundai electric vehicles in the U.S. will come with the N.A.C.S. port starting in 2024's fourth quarter. It will begin in Canada in the first half of 2025. Hyundai's luxury brand, Genesis, will use the ports. Kia said it plans to build the port into new electric vehicles sold in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, also in the fourth quarter of next year. ASSOCIATED PRESS
SPIRITS
Constellation Lifts Targets for Second-Quarter Profit
Constellation Brands raised its annual profit target on Thursday after higher prices and strong demand for its beers and spirits drove sales and profits in the second quarter. Alcohol producers like Constellation and Brown-Forman have benefited from increasing prices, helping offset steeper raw material costs. Constellation also raised the annual sales forecast for its beer business. Its Modelo Especial and Corona brand beers and premium wine labels Meiomi and Kim Crawford retained demand despite a broader consumer slowdown in the U.S. Modelo Especial's dollar share at retail outlets was 8.5 percent, while that of Anheuser-Busch InBev's Bud Light was 8.1 percent this year. Constellation now expects fiscal 2024 comparable earnings per share between $ 12.00 and $ 12.20, as against its previous forecast of profit between $ 11.70
Credit: By Katie Robertson and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Profits; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Profits Breweries

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/04/business/06bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2873140232

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2873140232/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Strikes and Deep Roots: 'Good Stories in Detroit': [National Desk]

Author: Lindner, Emmett

Publication info: Lindner, Emmett. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/strikes-deep-roots-good-stories-detroit/docview/2869848401/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As electric vehicles usher in a new era for the car economy and workers strike against rooted manufacturers, Neal E. Boudette is in Motor City to cover it all.
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
For the first time in the nearly 90-year history of the United Auto Workers, the union is on strike against all three of the large Detroit automakers -- General Motors, Ford Motor and Stellantis, the parent company of Chrysler -- at the same time.
The targeted strike, which started on Sept. 15 and expanded last Friday, has shut down three auto plants in Michigan, Ohio and Missouri, and 38 parts distribution centers operated by G.M. and Stellantis. About 18,300 U.A.W. members are on strike while the union demands a 40 percent pay increase. The shutdowns affect only a few car models, but a protracted strike would affect consumers and the U.S. economy.
Neal E. Boudette, who covers the auto industry from Detroit for The New York Times, has been reporting on the negotiations between the union and automakers. He has covered the automobile industry since 2002, when he was in Germany working for The Wall Street Journal. He joined The Times in 2016.
In an interview, Mr. Boudette spoke about the evolution of the industry, its symbolism in the United States and what this strike could mean for other automakers. This interview has been edited and condensed.
President Biden visited a picket line in Michigan this week, which has been described as unprecedented for a sitting president. Does this strike feel different from U.A.W.'s strike at General Motors in 2019, or ones before that?
A lot of the strikes in the past 20 years have been symbolic more than strategic. This year, it's a totally different dynamic. The union has a very strong negotiating position. The car companies are making tons of money, and workers have not received raises that have kept up with inflation. The workers have a lot of support from the public.
There have been strikes in the past that were very contentious and even resulted in street clashes. But in the 21st century, there hasn't been a strike like this.
You worked in Germany before coming to Detroit. How do the settings compare?
Detroit is Motor City. The whole region has this very strong connection to automobiles. There's a century-long history and a great deal of culture built around the automobile. The Detroit Red Wings -- their logo is a winged wheel.
It was less so in Germany. I was based in Frankfurt, not an auto center. Opel was a little bit outside of Frankfurt, and Mercedes was south of Frankfurt. B.M.W. was down in Munich; Volkswagen was up north in Wolfsburg. Each of those towns is a little like Detroit, but you didn't have the concentration that you have in Detroit.
How has the evolution of electric vehicles changed your beat?
The biggest trend is electrification, and there are many different aspects of it. Aside from the fact that you have to get these cars designed and developed and produced, there's a social aspect to it. We need chargers all over the place, and charging a car is a different social experience than filling up your gas tank.
Then there's the climate aspect. The evolution of the industry to electronic vehicles has been called the biggest transition the industry has seen since the introduction of the moving assembly line.
The beat is multifaceted now. Before the financial crisis, it wasn't quite like that. There was a technology race, but it was a very limited technology race. And now it's taking on a much greater breadth.
What affects will the strike have on the industry?
Eventually the union and automakers will come up with an agreement. And then the next big question will be: How much of a burden does this contract put on these companies? Their competitors -- Toyota, Volkswagen, Honda, Kia -- are foreign companies who operate nonunion factories. Most of their workers make considerably less than the top U.A.W. wage.
In recent years, U.A.W. tried to organize a Volkswagen plant in Tennessee and a Nissan plant in Mississippi, and the workers voted down union representation. They didn't want to rock the boat.
But there's a lot of power on the side of workers these days. I think it's possible workers in the South say: We're making $ 22 an hour. The workers in Detroit are making $ 32 an hour. We should be in the union.
As an auto industry reporter, are you a big car guy?
It's funny, I'm not. I'm interested in cars, but I'm not a big car person. I drive a Chevy Malibu, believe it or not.
Cars are interesting products to cover. There's no other country in the world where there are as many pop songs and movies about cars. The Beach Boys' "409"; that David Hasselhoff TV show, "Knight Rider." It's a whole TV show built around a car.
There are good stories in Detroit. Sometimes it's a matter of explaining things to readers. We did a lot of that in the past year on the transition to E.V.s. There are also really interesting personalities to write about. That's what keeps me going.
Photograph The United Auto Workers held a practice picket line outside of the headquarters of the automaker Stellantis in Auburn Hills, Mich., on Sept. 20. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK HAGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Television programs; Shutdowns; Automobile industry; Strikes; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Shutdowns Automobile industry Strikes

Location: United States--US; Michigan; Germany; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/29/insider/united-auto-workers-strikes.html

Title: Strikes and Deep Roots: 'Good Stories in Detroit':   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 29, 2023

column: Times Insider

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869848401

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/strikes-deep-roots-good-stories-detroit/docview/2869848401/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2869428843/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LEGAL
Justice Dept. Targets eBay Over Unlawful Sales
The Justice Department filed a civil complaint against eBay, claiming the online marketplace unlawfully sold and distributed hundreds of thousands of products like pesticides and motor vehicle emission-evading devices that violate environmental laws.
The complaint Wednesday claims eBay sold, offered for sale or caused the sale of more than 343,000 aftermarket devices that try to evade motor vehicle emissions controls.
It also alleges the company unlawfully distributed or sold at least 23,000 pesticides that were unregistered, misbranded or for restricted use.
In addition, the complaint claims eBay distributed more than 5,600 painting and coating removal products that include methylene chloride.
eBay called the government's actions "entirely unprecedented," and said that it planned to vigorously defend itself.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
AUTOMOBILES
Hyundai and Kia Recall 3.4 Million Vehicles
Hyundai and Kia are recalling nearly 3.4 million vehicles in the U.S. and telling owners to park them outside and away from structures because of the risk of engine compartment fires.
The recalls cover multiple car and S.U.V. models from the 2010 through 2019 model years including Hyundai's Santa Fe SUV and Kia's Sorrento SUV.
Documents posted Wednesday by the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration say the anti-lock brake control module can leak fluid and cause an electrical short, which can touch off a fire while the vehicles are parked or being driven.
Dealers will replace the anti-lock brake fuse at no cost.
Hyundai reported 21 fires in the affected vehicles in the U.S., and another 22 "thermal incidents" including smoke, burning and melting of parts, the documents say. Kia reported 10 fires and melting incidents. ASSOCIATED PRESS
ECONOMY
Orders for Durable Goods Exceeded Expectations
Orders for long-lasting U.S. manufactured goods rose in August as an increase in machinery and other products offset a drop in civilian aircraft, and business spending on equipment appeared to regain momentum after faltering early in the third quarter.
The report from the Commerce Department on Wednesday also showed shipments of capital goods rebounding sharply last month, a sign of resilience in both business investment and the overall economy despite the Federal Reserve's aggressive monetary policy tightening. The surge in shipments compensated for downward revisions to July's data.
Orders for durable goods, items ranging from toasters to aircraft meant to last three years or more, gained 0.2 percent last month. Data for July was revised lower to show orders for these goods decreasing 5.6 percent instead of 5.2 percent, as previously reported. REUTERS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM DAVIS/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Aircraft; Automobiles; Pesticides; Vehicles

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/26/business/28bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 28, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newsp aper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869428843

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2869428843/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. to Recall A Key Part For Airbags: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Moreno, J Edward; Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward; Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-recall-key-part-airbags/docview/2861065096/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The action covers airbags made by two companies and used by 12 automakers from 2000 to 2018. The parts were linked to seven injuries and one death.
Federal auto safety regulators moved Tuesday toward a recall of about 52 million airbag inflaters used by a dozen major carmakers, calling the parts unsafe and susceptible to rupture.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration scheduled a public meeting on Oct. 5 on its recommendation to recall the airbags, manufactured by ARC Automotive and Delphi Automotive Systems. ARC rejected the agency's initial findings that its airbags were defective.
The agency said that at least seven people had been injured and one killed in seven incidents in the United States as a result of the defective airbags.
Of the 52 million airbags, 41 million were manufactured by ARC and 11 million were produced by Delphi using a design licensed by ARC. The airbags were variously made in China, Mexico and Knoxville, Tenn., and were used by a dozen major carmakers: BMW, Ford, General Motors, Hyundai, Kia, Maserati, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, Stellantis, Tesla, Toyota and Volkswagen.
"An airbag inflater that fails by rupture not only does not perform its job as a safety device, but instead actively threatens injury or death, even in a crash where the vehicle occupants would otherwise have been unharmed," the agency said in its announcement.
ARC and Delphi did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The ARC matter comes several years after the safety agency's investigation of inflaters made by Takata, a Japanese supplier, that were found to explode violently and suddenly, even when the airbags were not deployed in a crash. In that case, regulators determined that Takata used a propellant that could break down over time from exposure to humidity.
The safety agency linked the Takata defect to more than a dozen deaths in the United States. More than 70 million vehicles equipped with Takata inflaters were recalled in more than 40 countries.
In April, the safety agency demanded in a letter to ARC that the company recall tens of millions of airbag inflaters that were made from 2000 to 2018.
The agency's investigators found that a small number of inflaters designed by ARC could explode more violently than intended when a vehicle's airbags are deployed, and therefore "pose an unreasonable risk of death or injury," the letter said.
The letter prompted G.M. to recall nearly one million vehicles made from 2014 to 2017 and equipped with ARC inflaters. The automaker said it was taking the action "out of an abundance of caution."
In response to the agency's demand, ARC declined to issue a recall and said in a letter in May that it did not believe a defect existed and that in its view NHTSA's finding was not based on "any objective technical or engineering conclusion."
Inflaters use an explosive substance such as ammonium nitrate that is compacted into tablets stored in a metal cylinder. In a crash severe enough to set off a vehicle's airbags, the tablets are supposed to create a controlled explosion that rapidly fills the airbags with gas.
The safety agency said it had found that ARC's manufacturing process could leave bits of welding material, known as weld slag, inside the cylinder. If the airbags are deployed, that material could clog the exit opening and cause an explosion violent enough to blast shards of metal and plastic into the vehicle's interior.
The agency has been looking at ARC inflaters since 2015. The most recent incident involving a rupture occurred in Michigan in March, when the driver of a 2017 Chevrolet Traverse sustained facial injuries.
ARC, in its letter to regulators in May, said that weld slag had been ruled out as the cause of two of the seven incidents noted by the agency, and that it had not yet been found definitively to be the cause of the other five.
A large-scale recall, and any related legal expenses, could have considerable costs for the inflater makers. After the Takata recall, the largest in automotive history, which forced it to pay millions of dollars in fines to U.S. regulators, the company filed for bankruptcy in 2017 and was sold to Joyson Safety Systems, formerly known as Key Safety Systems.
Takata had been responsible for the cost of replacing the defective inflaters -- a task handled by local car dealerships -- but the bankruptcy filing left automakers to pick up the bill. About 11 percent of the affected airbags still haven't been replaced, according to the safety agency's most recent estimate.
The agency has come under scrutiny for its investigations of vehicle defects. In May the Department of Transportation's inspector general issued a report concluding that the agency's Office of Defects Investigations did not identify and investigate safety defects in a timely manner.
Photograph Investigators found that the inflaters could explode more violently than intended when airbags are deployed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Air bags; Bankruptcy; Automobile industry; Investigations; Vehicles; Injuries

Business indexing term: Subject: Bankruptcy Automobile industry

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration--NHTSA; NAICS: 926120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/05/business/airbag-arc-nhtsa-recall.html

Title: U.S. to Recall A Key Part For Airbags:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2861065096

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-recall-key-part-airbags/docview/2861065096/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lucky in Love, but Not With Toyota Priuses: [Society Desk]

Author: Safronova, Valeriya

Publication info: Safronova, Valeriya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lucky-love-not-with-toyota-priuses/docview/2860021066/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jennifer Lee and Dr. Sachin Jain bonded over commonalities in their upbringings. They also discovered, after separate car accidents, that they could count on each other.
While driving home from a work dinner in downtown Los Angeles in August 2021, Jennifer Lee's Toyota Prius was suddenly struck in the side by another car that had run a red light. Ms. Lee had suffered whiplash, her car was badly damaged and she was in a state of shock.
As the police and tow truck arrived, she called Dr. Sachin Jain, whom she had been dating for about three months.
"He was the first person who came to my mind," Ms. Lee said. And without hesitating, Dr. Jain left the dinner he was attending to drive 40 minutes so he could pick up Ms. Lee, bring her home, and take care of her.
"I was in my crisis mode, and he was the rational person saying don't worry, we'll get this figured out," Ms. Lee said.
That weekend, Dr. Jain devoted himself to helping Ms. Lee buy a new car. "I wanted to make sure she got a fair deal," he said. "That was a real bonding experience. We spent 48 hours together."
Several weeks later, at the end of September, Dr. Jain was crossing the street in Los Angeles on a walk signal when a distracted driver in a Toyota Prius ran into him. Dr. Jain flew onto the car, and rolled off its windshield. He suffered a concussion, and fractured one of his ribs and his tibial plateau, the flat portion of the bone that runs from the knee to the ankle.
At the time, Ms. Lee was driving on the freeway to pick up an embroidered jacket, a gift for Dr. Jain's upcoming birthday. "He called me and he wasn't making any sense," she said. "My heart sunk. Someone had to take the phone from him and say, 'He's been hit by a car.' It was so scary."
She turned around and drove straight to the scene of the accident, then followed the ambulance as it took Dr. Jain to the emergency room at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
"My closest family members were 3,000 miles away," Dr. Jain said. His immediate family members live on the East Coast. "But in many ways I felt like I had the comfort of family by my side when she was with me in that emergency room," he added. After being released the same day, Dr. Jain was in physical therapy for five months.
Dr. Jain and Ms. Lee first met at Alibi Room, a bar and restaurant in Los Angeles, in May 2021 after matching on Hinge. They connected over their shared love of Costco and the TV series "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit." They also discovered commonalities in their upbringings.
"We're from different cultures," Dr. Jain said. "But we both had these immigrant stories."
"It was like, 'What did you do on the weekends when you were young'," Ms. Lee said. "I drove to art class six hours away in San Diego."
"I went to Korean SAT classes every weekend," Dr. Jain answered.
Ms. Lee, 33, was born in Seoul. When she was about 3, her family moved to Irvine, Calif., because of her father's job with Kia Motors. In 2013, she received a bachelor's degree in fashion design and marketing from Central Saint Martins in London before relocating to Seoul in 2014 to work at Coupang, a Korean e-commerce company. In 2015, she moved back to Los Angeles, and in 2021, began her current job as a color and material designer at Skechers.
Dr. Jain, 42, grew up in different parts of Bergen county in New Jersey; his parents immigrated from Rajasthan, India, in the 1970s. He has a bachelor's degree in government from Harvard, an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, and a medical degree from Harvard Medical School.
In the middle of his residency at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, from 2009 to 2011, Dr. Jain took a leave to work in President Obama's administration in several roles related to health care reform. He completed the residency in 2012.
In 2014, he joined CareMore Health, a health plan and care delivery system for Medicare and Medicaid patients, as a chief medical officer. He became the chief executive of the company in 2016. Since July 2020, he has been the chief executive of SCAN Health Plan, a nonprofit organization focused on care of older adults.
After their first date, Ms. Lee and Dr. Jain continued seeing each other, but neither was ready to commit. "We wanted our next relationship to be a serious one so we decided we'd take our time to get to know each other," Ms. Lee said.
That summer, on a flight back from Houston, where they had gone for the weekend to visit one of Dr. Jain's friends, the two of them chatted the entire time. "We were talking like best friends talk," Dr. Jain said. "That was the first point it registered that it could be something more."
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
The day after Dr. Jain's accident, the couple went on a planned trip to Cancún, Mexico, where Ms. Lee surprised Dr. Jain with a Cameo video of the actor Mr. T wishing him a happy birthday and a strong recovery. "I was a huge fan of Mr. T as a kid," Dr. Jain said. "I loved 'Rocky III' and 'The A-Team.' The present was super sweet and thoughtful and kind of hilarious."
In February 2022, at his friend's wedding, Dr. Jain decided he was ready to fully immerse himself in the relationship, so he told Ms. Lee that he loved her. But she didn't say it back. He feared the relationship was over. "I thought maybe this is it," he said.
Ms. Lee had never told a partner "I love you" before. "I built it up in my head," she said. "If I say I love you, that means you're the person I want to marry." She had spoken to friends and to her older sister, Carol Kim, and they were convinced she did love Dr. Jain. But she was afraid to vocalize her feelings too hastily. "I wanted to be intentional about it," she said. Finally, some weeks later, she realized she was overthinking and reciprocated.
A little less than a year later, on Feb. 13, 2023, Ms. Lee and Dr. Jain were staying at the Westin Hapuna Beach Resort in Waimea, Hawaii, when Dr. Jain suggested they do a free photo shoot on the beach for their 2023 holiday card.
Ms. Lee thought it was odd to take photos 10 months in advance, but she agreed that it would be a fun activity.
As they posed for photos, Dr. Jain dropped to one knee. "My first instinct was like, 'Did you drop something? You're going to ruin your suit,"' Ms. Lee said. "Suddenly he got the box out. Time stopped. I blacked out." The diamond ring Dr. Jain presented was one he had chosen with the help of his brother Roopam Jain, a jeweler.
"It was amazing," Ms. Lee said. "And everyone says I'm really picky."
Afterward, they had dinner at Mauna Kea Beach Hotel and spent the evening calling their friends and family to tell them the news. "As soon as we announced we're getting married, everybody immediately started asking about the date of the wedding," Dr. Jain said. "They had been waiting 20-some-odd years for this news," he added, in reference to his family.
So Dr. Jain and Ms. Lee did not hesitate. During the next five months, with the help of eager family members and friends, they planned six days of wedding celebrations that combined influences from both of their cultures.
On July 28, they had a wedding ceremony in front of 400 people at the Rockleigh, an events space in Northern New Jersey.
The day before, on a Thursday, during a traditional Korean paebaek tea ceremony at the venue, the family's elders offered words of wisdom and blessings.
On Thursday evening, they held a sangeet, an Indian wedding tradition, during which friends and family can put on performances. "We had a choreographer work with all these different groups of people," Ms. Lee said. Her family members performed to "Gangnam Style," a popular 2012 Korean song by the musician Psy, and her friends danced to "It's Gonna Be Me" by 'N Sync.
Dr. Jain surprised Ms. Lee with a piano performance of "Home" by Michael Bublé, accompanied by his friend and his nephew on vocals. "The time everybody spent practicing was the beauty of it," Ms. Lee said. "The celebrations started before the actual ceremony."
On Friday, after the ceremony, there was a cocktail hour and an entirely vegetarian dinner prepared by chef Vipul Gupta from Moghul Catering that fused Korean and Indian food. A live band, Blue Avenue Groove, performed at the reception. The next day, Narpat Jain, one of Dr. Jain's brothers, and his wife, Archana Jain, hosted a lunch -- with a pizza truck and a dosa station -- during which the newlyweds played traditional Indian wedding games, like searching for a ring in a bowl filled with milk and flowers.
About two weeks later, on Aug. 12, Dr. Jain and Ms. Lee were legally married by their friend and neighbor, Kristen Byrdsong, a superior court judge, in her backyard in Playa del Rey, Los Angeles. "She came out in her judge's robe and wrote a speech," Dr. Jain said. "She and her husband popped Dom Pérignon for us."
"It's all been a complete blur," Dr. Jain said. "What we always wanted was our families to really come together as one. It was something we were anxious about, coming from two different cultures. But in the end, there was so much obvious connection and love."
On This Day
Where The Rockleigh, Rockleigh, N.J.
When July 28, 2023
Icy Treats Ms. Lee's family loves cold sweet treats, so the bride and groom provided Italian gelato, Indian kulfi and shaved ice, and American ice cream. "We made sure they had ice cream at every meal," Dr. Jain said.
Last-Minute Zoom About two weeks before the wedding, Dr. Jain's brother Roopam and his wife, Sapna Jain, sounded the alarm that Dr. Jain's parents, Dr. Subhash Jain and Sarla Jain, had never met Ms. Lee's parents, Dong Kyung Lee and Myung Hee Lee. A video call was quickly organized and the parents connected despite the language barrier -- one set speaks Hindi at home in Alpine, N.J., and the other set lives in Seoul and speaks primarily Korean.
Endless Looks During the course of their many days of celebration, the bride and groom each wore about 10 different outfits. One of them -- the most crucial one -- almost didn't make it to the wedding. Ms. Lee's lehenga (a set containing an embroidered red and gold skirt, a blouse and two shawl-like scarves) for the ceremony and reception, designed by the brand Sabyasachi, had to travel back and forth from India to New York City twice because the first time, a top she had not ordered was sent and the measurements were all wrong. But, Dr. Jain said, "in the end it was perfect."
Photograph Jennifer Lee and Dr. Sachin Jain had six days of wedding celebrations, including a July 28 ceremony at the Rockleigh, an event space in northern New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAJESH SATANKAR FOR KNOTTING BELLS) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Weddings; Families & family life; Emergency medical care; Rites & ceremonies; Health care policy

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; New Jersey

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/01/style/jennifer-lee-sachin-jain-wedding.html

Title: Lucky in Love, but Not With Toyota Priuses:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 3, 2023

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2860021066

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lucky-love-not-with-toyota-priuses/docview/2860021066/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Sport Facing Crisis and Decline Tries to Reform Before It's Too Late: [Sports Desk]

Author: Drape, Joe

Publication info: Drape, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sport-facing-crisis-decline-tries-reform-before/docview/2860021006/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: New York racing officials, addressing a deepening concern for the industry, say they will use diagnostic technology and synthetic tracks to keep horses safe.
It has become an all-too-common scenario: a thoroughbred suffers a ghastly injury before a packed grandstand and a national television audience and has to be euthanized by injection on the track. This past Saturday at Saratoga Race Course, an undefeated colt named New York Thunder was just strides from winning a $ 500,000 stakes race when he stumbled and unseated his rider.
The jockey, Tyler Gaffalione, got up. New York Thunder had to be put down after shattering his left front fetlock.
It was the 12th horse fatality -- the eighth while racing -- at the Saratoga summer meet. Combined with the deaths of a dozen horses last spring at Churchill Downs, including two on Kentucky Derby day, the fatalities have brought renewed scrutiny of horse racing and again left owners, trainers and racetrack executives struggling to reassure the public that racing is safe for its human and equine athletes.
In the wake of the deaths, New York racing officials have vowed to spend millions on PET and CT scans and outfit horses with sensors in the hopes of diagnosing pre-existing injuries before they become fatal. And a synthetic racing surface, which equine injury data shows to be significantly safer than dirt and turf tracks, is being installed for winter racing at Belmont Park and is being considered for both Aqueduct and Saratoga.
"We can strive for zero fatalities and part of that is aggressive imaging, synthetic surfaces and sensor tracking," said David O'Rourke, the chief executive officer and president of the New York Racing Association. The association is in the process of acquiring the diagnostic equipment and hopes to have it in place soon.
Also, the director of the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Authority, which oversees racing safety nationwide, said the authority will soon implement a rule lengthening the time horses must wait to race after they have received a steroid injection. Steroids can mask pain and may cause horses to run hard even when they are hurt.
In recent years, racehorse deaths have deepened the sense of crisis in an industry that is dwindling in popularity as racing fans turn to other sports and forms of gambling.
In 2019, 30 horses died at Santa Anita Park in California in a span of six months, creating national headlines and drawing the scrutiny of state lawmakers and animal rights activists. In response, state regulators and racing officials strengthened rules regarding the use of riding crops, medications for horses, education for trainers and jockeys, track safety and recuperation policies for injured horses.
The reforms appeared to be effective. Last year, 12 horses died at Santa Anita. Thoroughbred fatalities throughout California fell 54 percent from 2019 to 2022.
Dr. Scott Palmer, New York's equine medical director, said the number of fatalities had been declining in New York as well.
Nationally, since 2009, the Jockey Club has kept a database to track fatal breakdowns on American racetracks and analyze how they can be prevented. That first year, thoroughbreds had fatal injuries at the rate of two per 1,000 starts.
The rate of fatal injuries has declined every year for the last four years. In 2022, the rate was 1.25 deaths per 1,000 starts.
But the high-profile breakdowns at big races have occurred when casual fans are tuned in and, ultimately, turned off. While 12 horses died at Saratoga the previous two years, a majority of the deaths occurred during training hours. This year, eight horses have died while racing.
"The Kentucky Derby teed this up," Palmer said, referring to the repeated and highly publicized deaths at Churchill Downs in May. The pattern continued at the Preakness Stakes in Baltimore, where Havnameltdown -- trained by Bob Baffert, the most recognizable figure in the sport -- broke down in a race preceding the second leg of the Triple Crown.
"It's been awful," Palmer said.
New York Thunder, the horse that broke down in front of the Saratoga crowd, was brilliantly fast but prone to injury, according to his veterinary records obtained by The New York Times.
The horse's trainer, Jorge Delgado, declined to comment on his handling of the colt, the third of his horses to die since July 27. The colt's London-based owner, Kia Joorabchian, could not be reached for comment.
After winning his first two races last year as a 2-year-old, first on a synthetic surface and then on turf, New York Thunder had a slow start to his 3-year-old season. He spent two weeks in the spring on the Kentucky vet's list described as "lame," according to vet records, making him ineligible to compete. Horses are put on the vet's list when they are deemed unsound by regulatory veterinarians or have undergone certain procedures that require extra time or scrutiny.
He returned to racing on April 30 at Woodbine Racetrack in Toronto, easily winning a stakes race on a synthetic surface.
In June, Delgado entered New York Thunder in the Woody Stephens Stakes on the undercard of the Belmont Stakes. But the horse was scratched by state veterinarians the morning of the race because he was injured, according to the vet records. No other information was given in the records.
On July 14, New York Thunder went on the vet's list again for two weeks after he was given a joint injection, the records say. The injection was allowed under rules set by the national horse racing authority, which was created by Congress 2020 to oversee the sport. It is common for trainers to inject horses with steroids to battle inflammation and reduce pain.
On July 28, the colt came off the vet's list and won the Amsterdam Stakes on dirt in Saratoga by an eye-catching seven and a half lengths.
Racing a horse two weeks after it has received an injection is allowable under the rules but controversial in the sport. Before the national racing authority took over antidoping and medication control on May 22, California had a rule that prohibited steroid fetlock injections within 30 days of a race.
Before the rule went into effect, the state had 83 catastrophic fetlock failures in 20 months. Afterward, it had 24 in the next 19 months.
Dr. Greg Ferraro, the chairman of the California Horse Racing Board, said the use of medications too close to a race limits the ability of regulatory veterinarians to identify pre-existing conditions that may progress to catastrophic injuries.
"Fourteen days is a step backward," said Ferraro, a former racetrack veterinarian. "If you put any athlete in significant training, the health of joint disintegrates, you can't slow it down, but you can speed it up by putting corticosteroid in the fetlock. You inject to run. That culture needs to be eliminated."
The culture still existed when New York Thunder was racing this summer. On Aug. 12, two weeks before the H. Allen Jerkens Memorial Stakes in Saratoga, he again received a joint injection.
On the day of the Jerkens Memorial, the colt bounced out of the gate and led every step of the seven-furlong sprint. He was gliding like a swamp buggy, five lengths ahead, as the finish line approached. There were more than 48,000 people at the racetrack for the 154th running of the Travers Stakes, or "Midsummer Derby," later that day.
A full-throated roar powered New York Thunder down the stretch.
And then the colt seemed to come apart, crumpling to the ground and tossing Gaffalione. Gasps and groans turned to silence. The horse ambulance arrived; a screen was raised. Tear-streaked faces in droves headed for the exits.
It seemed a cruel replay of the scene three weeks earlier, on another big day with a national broadcast audience, when a filly named Maple Leaf Mel fatally broke down just yards from the finish line.
Lisa Lazarus, the chief executive of the national authority, acknowledged that the rule in place and the process for determining a horse's soundness failed New York Thunder.
"There's two ways to look at a horse -- on paper and through his vet records and past performances and in person on the day of the race," Lazarus said. "The regulatory vet can only act on what they see on the day and in the moment."
In the final days of the Saratoga meeting, which ends Monday, a veterinarian from Lazarus's staff is examining the records of horses entered in every race. Lazarus anticipates that the authority, along with state racing associations, will create a review panel to daily determine the fitness of horses entered to run that day, much like the model that California employs.
Lazarus said the authority would adopt the California rule of banning steroid fetlock injections within 30 days of a race.
Changes in racetracks are also likely to help. Horses break down 0.41 times per 1,000 starts on synthetics compared with 0.99 times on turf and 1.44 times on dirt, according to the Jockey Club's database.
Mark Casse, a Hall of Fame trainer in the United States and Canada, said he has trained or raced horses at least 150,000 times on Woodbine's synthetic racetrack over the past decade. He said synthetic tracks are more consistent and have more give, especially in inclement weather.
"It's been safer year after year after year," Casse said. "What happens on dirt is that the preferred way to win is to train for speed and get to the front. Getting dirt kicked in their faces discourages horses. On synthetic, it's not as fast as you can, it's more tactical. Speed on hard dirt kills."
Santa Anita and Del Mar in California and Keeneland in Kentucky experimented with synthetic tracks more than a decade ago. Breakdown rates fell significantly, but complaints from trainers and breeders skyrocketed. Trainers said they saw more soft tissue and hind injuries. Breeders were afraid horses that performed well on synthetics might not transfer that quality to dirt, diminishing the value of their stallions.
"We, as an industry, do not like to change," Casse said. "But if we continue to cling to tradition, we will be out of business."
With the amount of scrutiny on horse racing, however, Casse believes the sport is at a crossroads and without change will go out of business.
"We have to be better," Casse said. "I'm not sure that I'm as proud to be a horse trainer as I used to be."
Photograph New York Thunder winning the Amsterdam Stakes in July. The colt was euthanized after being injured at Saratoga last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOPHIE SHORE/CAL SPORT MEDIA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); Stage regulators and racing officials imposed new safety rules after 30 horses died at Santa Anita Park in Arcadia, Calif., in 2019. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNA SCHOENEFELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A25.

Subject: Fatalities; Jockeys; Racetracks; Veterinarians; Steroids; Injuries; Horse racing

Location: California; New York; United States--US; Kentucky

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/01/sports/horse-racing/horse-racing-deaths-reforms.html

Title: A Sport Facing Crisis and Decline Tries to Reform Before It's Too Late:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.25

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2860021006

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sport-facing-crisis-decline-tries-reform-before/docview/2860021006/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Crime Wave Carmakers Enabled: [Op-Ed]

Author: Manjoo, Farhad

Publication info: Manjoo, Farhad. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/crime-wave-carmakers-enabled/docview/2860020974/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a recent analysis of data from 37 American cities, the Council on Criminal Justice, a nonpartisan think tank, suggested a hopeful trend -- the pandemic-era spike in crime may have peaked. The homicide rate has dropped significantly over the last year, based on data from 30 American cities. In many places, just about all types of violent crimes are down, in some areas substantially -- in Atlanta, for instance, there have been 21 percent fewer aggravated assaults, 28 percent fewer homicides and 56 percent fewer rapes than at this point in 2022, according to police department data.
But there's a glaring exception: auto thefts. According to the Council on Criminal Justice, "The number of vehicle thefts during the first half of 2023 was 33.5 percent higher, on average, than during the same period in 2022 -- representing 23,974 more vehicle thefts in the cities that reported data." In Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Chicago, New Orleans, Buffalo and Durham, N.C., motor vehicle thefts this year have more than doubled relative to last year, according to stats collected by Jeff Asher, a crime data analyst. This week, The Baltimore Sun reported that "auto thefts are on pace to more than double the total from last year, as reports through the first eight months of 2023 are already up 88 percent compared to all of 2022."
Why are so many cars getting stolen? Police departments and city officials point to this: Millions of Kias and Hyundais are ridiculously easy to steal.
For years now, most automakers have equipped most of the cars they sell in the United States with electronic immobilizers, devices that prevent cars from starting unless they detect a radio ID code associated with the car's rightful key. But Hyundai and Kia, which come under the same South Korean conglomerate, did not install this basic device in somewhere around nine million cars sold between 2011 and 2022. A couple of years ago, videos showing how to hotwire the vulnerable cars began to pop up online. I won't go into details but I will say that it doesn't require much more than a USB plug.
The resulting crime wave has clobbered American cities. "We're hitting close to 6,000 cars that have been stolen this year alone," Adrian Diaz, Seattle's police chief, told me. More than a third of the cars stolen in Seattle in August were Hyundais and Kias, he said. "That's a massive cost, not only for the victim of having a vehicle stolen," but also in resources involved in "trying to investigate these crimes," Diaz said.
And then there are the follow-on incidents. Stolen Kias and Hyundais have been involved in numerous deadly crashes, armed robbery sprees and other crimes around the country. "We're recovering guns out of a lot of Kias that are stolen," Diaz said.
Seattle is one of several cities that are suing Kia and Hyundai, and they make a compelling case. The carmakers should have known they were creating unsafe products. The costs of their decision have had far-reaching effects on public safety and city resources, and there's no telling when the thefts might abate. Kia and Hyundai, not the public, should bear the cost of their irresponsible decision to sell cars without immobilizers.
The carmakers say they're doing all they can to stem the thefts. They've created a software update that they say fixes the issue; it requires a visit to a dealer and takes up to 45 minutes to install. They've also given police departments anti-theft steering wheel locks to hand out to affected owners, they say. So far, about 21 percent of affected cars -- about 660,000 Kias and 811,000 Hyundais -- have had the software upgrade installed, the carmakers said. (After you get the upgrade, the carmakers will give you a window sticker to alert thieves that they're wasting their time with your ride -- a good idea, I guess, though it does place a lot of faith in the integrity of would-be criminals.) The companies have also settled a $ 200 million lawsuit with owners of the vulnerable cars (though a federal judge recently rejected the settlement, ruling that it may not offer enough compensation for some drivers). A Kia spokesman told me that the cities' lawsuits are "without merit," arguing that federal auto safety regulators do not require automakers to install immobilizers in their vehicles. (A lawsuit filed by several insurance companies disputes this point.)
It may also be difficult for cities to prove that the rise in thefts is primarily Kia and Hyundai's fault. Richard Rosenfeld, a criminologist who is one of the authors of the Council on Criminal Justice's analysis, told me that motor vehicle theft is an under-researched phenomenon. Many police departments do not "code" the make and model of stolen cars, so it's difficult to make long-term comparisons. "I cannot tell you what fraction of all motor vehicles that are stolen are Kias and Hyundais," he said.
But stats released by some of the worst affected cities strongly suggest that thefts of Kias and Hyundais are a major part of the recent spike. In the first half of 2022, according to the Chicago mayor's office, there were about 500 stolen Kias and Hyundais in Chicago. In the second half of 2022, the number of stolen Kias and Hyundais shot up to 8,350; this year, more than half of the cars stolen in Chicago were from these two brands. In August, Cleveland.com reported that Kias and Hyundais made up 57 percent of cars stolen this year, compared to 11 percent during the same period last year. In May, the Baltimore mayor's office announced the city's suit against the carmakers, reporting that Kias and Hyundais accounted for 41 percent of the cars stolen up to that point this year. (Hyundai and Kia accounted for just over 10 percent of the cars sold in America in the first quarter of this year, according to the research firm Cox Automotive.)
There's a chance that Kia and Hyundai will escape some of the blame for these thefts because there's a juicier target for politicians to go after: social media platforms, where the how-to videos have circulated.
Media accounts of the thefts often highlight TikTok's role; one Insider story was headlined "Grand Theft TikTok." In March, Eric Adams, the mayor of New York, held a news conference to discuss the city's response to the rise in stolen cars. After pointing out the steps Hyundai and Kia have taken to prevent the thefts, he went after tech companies. "We don't need social media to contribute to social disorder," he said. The same month, Representative Joe Morelle, a New York Democrat, told reporters, "We don't need companies like TikTok playing an active role in facilitating these crimes and putting information on how-to videos for people who would misuse them."
This strikes me as bizarre blame shifting. It's Kia and Hyundai, not TikTok, that sold theft-prone cars. I'm not against tech companies moderating their platforms to curb the spread of potentially dangerous information. But you know what would be better? Making cars that can't be stolen with a USB cable.
Office Hours With Farhad Manjoo
Farhad wants to chat with readers on the phone . If you're interested in talking to a New York Times columnist about anything that's on your mind, please fill out this form. Farhad will select a few readers to call.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page SR3.

Subject: Software; Crime; Automobile theft; Police departments; Councils; Social networks; Automobile industry; Mayors; Robbery; Murders & murder attempts; Cities; Vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Automobile industry

Location: Baltimore Maryland; Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/01/opinion/kia-hyundai-tiktok.html

Title: A Crime Wave Carmakers Enabled:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.3

Publicationyear: 2023

Publication date: Sep 3, 2023

column: Had Manjoo

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2860020974

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/crime-wave-carmakers-enabled/docview/2860020974/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Loss of Son, Coach Faces a Terrible Truth: [National Desk]

Author: Branch, John; Bracken, Kassie; Laffin, Ben; Chiarappa, Alfredo; Ward, Joe

Publication info: Branch, John; Bracken, Kassie; Laffin, Ben; Chiarappa, Alfredo; Ward, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-loss-son-coach-faces-terrible-truth/docview/2858156244/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Meiko Locksley was found to have had a degenerative brain disease often associated with football. His father, the head coach at Maryland, is still reckoning with the implications.
Michael Locksley was helping coach Alabama to a national championship in 2017 when his 25-year-old son, Meiko, was shot and killed.
Meiko was a standout high-school football player who bounced between college programs as his mind and life slipped into darkness in his early 20s.
His father is now the head coach at the University of Maryland. Michael Locksley has mourned Meiko's loss, in part, by leading discussions about mental health and trying to destigmatize it among the young men he coaches.
One thing he has not said publicly, until now: Meiko had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., the degenerative brain disease caused by repeated blows to the head and often associated with football.
C.T.E. can only be diagnosed, with certainty, posthumously.
"I always thought, like, how do you go from a normal 21-year-old Division I football-playing person to, literally six months later, saying you hear people in the basement of an apartment where you lived on the eighth floor and you don't have a basement?" Locksley said.
He continued: "That didn't make sense to me. So I just always would go back to saying, 'Maybe it had something to do with these concussions."'
Locksley said that he did not know the precise role that C.T.E. played in Meiko's decline, and he is right. Researchers cannot make direct links, either. Were Meiko's severe symptoms and mental-health issues caused by, exacerbated by or unaffected by C.T.E.?
A direct and personal -- deeply personal -- link to C.T.E. would be the most inconvenient of truths.
Locksley still coaches, leading a major program in a major conference. And he has another son, Kai, playing professionally in the Canadian Football League. He justifies his continued role in football with a risk-vs.-reward calculation.
"I want to be able to teach it and present it as safe as possible while still allowing this great game to give the rewards that it's given to so many families that I've seen over the 30-something years I've been coaching," he said.
"My goal is to walk that thin line very truthfully," he added.
Is it the view of a man who has suffered the incalculable loss of a son, but also has more to lose?
The brain of Meiko Locksley is one of 152 belonging to contact-sport athletes under the age of 30 that were donated between 2008 and 2022 to the UNITE Brain Bank and studied by researchers at Boston University.
In a paper published Monday in JAMA Neurology, the researchers reported that 63 of the athletes, or 41.4 percent of them, had C.T.E. Most were football players who never played past college, sometimes not past high school. One was 17.
That does not suggest that nearly half of young football players will get C.T.E.; the donations were made by mourning families desperate to find answers, most often after a suicide.
"This study clearly shows that the pathology of C.T.E. starts early," said Dr. Ann McKee, a neuropathologist and director of Boston University's C.T.E. Center.
What came to be known as C.T.E. was first diagnosed decades ago in "punch-drunk" boxers. Symptoms can include memory loss, erratic behavior and depression.
These days, despite discoveries in contact-sport athletes and military personnel of all kinds, C.T.E. is most often associated with aging football players. Junior Seau, Ken Stabler, Mike Webster and Dave Duerson are some of its most famous victims.
Researchers reported earlier this year that 345 of 376 donated brains of deceased N.F.L. players had C.T.E.
But there is a growing subset of young people, too, like the 63 in the latest study, whose lives, deaths and C.T.E. diagnoses are hidden in relative anonymity.
One was the son of one of the top football coaches in the country.
From 'Few Bad Days' to 'Shoot Me Now'
On the kitchen wall where Michael and Kia Locksley live is a framed piece of wood that reads, "Home is wherever football takes us."
Below it are 11 hanging wooden slats, one below another, listing all the coaching stops. Towson. Navy. Pacific. Army. Maryland. Florida. Illinois. New Mexico as a head coach. Maryland again. Alabama. Maryland as head coach.
They almost reach the floor.
"I don't know if I have room for any more stops," Locksley said.
Meiko Locksley was born on April 24, 1992, at the start of that chain. His mother was in college. His father was an assistant football coach at Towson, where he had played safety, making $ 12,000, he said.
Michael Locksley had one son already, also named Michael. The Locksleys had two more children after Meiko: a boy named Kai and a girl named Kori.
Meiko was reading at 4 and finished his first Harry Potter book at 6. Kia insisted that he balance athletics with art, so he took piano lessons; he played "Here Comes the Bride" for a wedding at 9. He did some child acting and modeling. He wrote poetry and rap. He got good grades. He laughed easily, danced routinely.
"He had very few bad days as a child," his father said.
Meiko began playing tackle football at 7. It was the late 1990s. Concerns over concussions almost didn't exist, especially for children.
"They were 7 and weighed nothing," Kia Locksley said. "And the hits, it almost looked like they just bounced off each other."
She is haunted by her carefree attitude. She remembers Meiko being knocked out on the field in middle school. Moments later, he seemed OK.
"Everything that I looked for at that time was in place: He was walking, he was talking," Kia Locksley said. "But I look back now with the information, definitely, I should have had him evaluated then and taken precautions then."
What makes C.T.E. especially tricky is that it is caused not just by obvious concussions, researchers say, but by the cumulative effect of subconcussive hits -- all the smacks and jolts that might barely register at the time.
While Michael Locksley was offensive coordinator at Illinois, Meiko became a star high school quarterback. When his father was offered the head job at New Mexico, Meiko played for a high school in Albuquerque.
He went to college to play at Youngstown State. It was about then that his parents noticed worrying changes.
Meiko had discipline problems and stopped going to class -- uncharacteristic for Meiko and embarrassing for Michael, who presumed that his son was merely running with the wrong crowd.
Meiko transferred to New Mexico to play for his father, moving from quarterback to safety. Kia Locksley was in graduate school there. She and Meiko would meet on campus for coffee.
"He started talking about how he was depressed," Kia said. "And that was very new."
The Locksleys got Meiko into counseling, and Michael had "guardrails" to keep him on the right path -- as coach, he could monitor class attendance and request drug tests. Meiko's behavior seemed to stabilize.
But Michael Locksley was fired early in their first season together. Meiko stayed. He sustained a concussion that kept him out of several games because of severe headaches.
Meiko transferred to a Pennsylvania junior college, then to Towson. His parents were nearby. Michael had become offensive coordinator at Maryland.
Meiko's mother noticed he had a growing inability to understand simple conversations.
"I would be on the phone with him for so long about little things, and I just didn't understand," Kia said. "I was confused, like: 'What is wrong with you? Why are you unable to process this?"'
He was moody and easily agitated. He lost a worrying amount of weight and became less concerned about how he dressed and looked. He got into an off-campus fight and was kicked off the football team. He argued routinely with a girlfriend.
Then he began hallucinating.
"I got a call in the middle of the night, and Meiko was on the other end and his girlfriend had left," Kia Locksley said. "She went back to, he thought, New Mexico, but he told me she was still here. And I said, 'What do you mean?' And he goes: 'She didn't leave. She's in this closet."'
Meiko played what he said was a recording of her, but it was completely silent. "I heard nothing. But he heard her voice," Kia Locksley said.
Kia Locksley thought it was a mental breakdown, signs of an illness. Michael Locksley suspected drugs.
Neither considered C.T.E. or the impact of football.
The Locksleys felt lucky to have money and connections. Meiko went through a string of therapists and medications. He went to Florida for a brain scan that turned up "hot spots" (damage from concussions, presumably), but offered no real answers.
He was ultimately diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder.
Once, at home, Meiko became enraged and smashed a window. Police were summoned.
"And that's when I heard him say," Kia Locksley said, "'Why is this happening? I didn't ask for this disease. Why do I have this? Just shoot me now. Just kill me.' He went for the police officer's gun. He wanted to die as opposed to dealing with the mental illness that he was struggling with."
Kia Locksley learned to care for Meiko by "emotionally detaching" from her expectations of him.
"I remember praying one night and just crying," she said. "I had to release and let go of who I wanted him to be, who I thought he was going to be, all the dreams that I had for him."
Michael Locksley coped with his son's decline differently.
"I kept wanting to knock the wall down to say, 'Come on out of here, man,"' Locksley said. "It felt like he was a prisoner in his own brain."
Then came the night of Sept. 3, 2017.
An Unresolved Death and a Diagnosis
The season opened the night before Meiko died. No. 1 Alabama played No. 3 Florida State in Atlanta.
Michael Locksley, an offensive coordinator for Alabama under Nick Saban, traded text messages with Meiko before the game, then called him after the Crimson Tide won, 24-7.
"I can remember him saying, like, 'Dang, Pops, man, y'all killed those boys,"' Locksley recalled.
Locksley cried while retelling the conversation.
The next night, Sept. 3, Michael and Kia were at their Alabama apartment. They were awakened by police officers at their door.
Meiko had been shot in the chest in Columbia, Md., near where he lived. He died at the University of Maryland Medical Center.
Circumstances were unknown that night, and the case remains unsolved, six years later. Michael Locksley sometimes goes to the scene and sits in his car, hoping someone might recognize him and tell him what happened to his son.
It was Michael who recommended the brain donation. By 2017, C.T.E. had received a lot of attention, and football coaches could not feign ignorance about concussions.
Locksley had seen the 2015 film "Concussion." A year before Meiko's death, the N.F.L. admitted C.T.E.'s link to football.
"I really wanted to know if the concussions played any part in the connection with his deteriorating mental health," Locksley said.
The results came in a conference call with researchers. Meiko had C.T.E.
The damage to his brain was deemed to be Stage 1 of four stages, like 38 others in the under-30 study. Another 21 brains were classified as Stage 2. The remaining three -- one N.F.L. player, one college football player and one rugby player -- were Stage 3.
The news of C.T.E. swamped Kia Locksley with regret.
"My God, I could have done something differently," she said, tearing up. After a pause, she added: "A little guilt."
Michael Locksley found unexpected comfort in the diagnosis. It was not drugs, he was relieved to know.
But he was now a football coach with a conundrum. He has spent years separating Meiko's mental-health struggles from his C.T.E. diagnosis.
He frequently talks about "mental health" and his program's open-door policy for players experiencing personal problems. He has spoken at length about Meiko's struggles.
It is natural to wonder, knowing the C.T.E. diagnosis, if "mental health" is a convenient euphemism, if not a bit of strategic misdirection.
"I continue to differentiate between the two," Locksley said. "I'm a layman, and my layman's mind-set is that they weren't really connected, and maybe they aren't. Maybe they were. I don't know."
Football 'Changed the Lineage of My Family'
Michael Locksley has rebuilt Maryland's football program, winning back-to-back bowl games for the first time in nearly 20 years. He is paid several million dollars a year. He has a large home, drives nice cars and oversees a program with shimmering new offices and football facilities.
It is his dream job. Locksley grew up in an area of Washington, D.C., that is still troubled and dangerous. He was the first in his family to go to college, thanks to football. It is where he met Kia.
"The benefits of playing the game of football, coming from where I was, I wouldn't be where I am today," he said. "The brown leather ball with however many ounces of air in it, it changed the lineage of my family."
He continued, putting his feelings to words.
"Does it hurt that I lost my son? One-hundred percent it does. Does it hurt to know that he had C.T.E. and it possibly could have been because of playing college football, high-school football, youth football? Sure. But if you were to ask me today how I feel -- I have grandsons now that love football and are playing contact football before high school."
Kia Locksley now believes that children should not play tackle football, perhaps until high school. That echoes the recommendation of C.T.E. researchers who see a correlation between C.T.E. and the number of years of full-contact participation.
Her husband sees that as impractical unless a ban were widely implemented "and everybody did it."
Meiko's diagnosis has changed the way he coaches, Locksley said. He is more aware of the signs of concussions and appreciative of the protocols.
"It definitely makes me think twice about how we practice, how often we are having contact," he said.
But he dismissed the idea that Maryland might consider following the lead of some colleges, like those in the Ivy League, that limit contact only to games, which researchers think would greatly reduce brain injuries in athletes.
"If one team is doing things a certain way and another is doing it differently, then sometimes that does create a competitive disadvantage," he said. "I'm judged Saturday on winning games."
That form of judgment begins again this Saturday, as Maryland opens its season against Towson -- the school where Locksley got his start and met his wife, and where Meiko last played football.
The next day will be the anniversary of Meiko's death.
Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Photograph Meiko Locksley started tackle football when he was 7. He sometimes slept in his uniform. (A16); Meiko Locksley was found to have had a degenerative brain disease often associated with football. His father, Michael, who is the head coach at Maryland, is still reckoning with the implications. (A16-A17); Michael Locksley with his wife, Kia. He wondered if his son's erratic behavior was because of concussions. He remains unsure of the link. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALFREDO CHIARAPPA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16, A17.

Subject: Football; Young adults; Concussion; Community colleges; Donations; Coaches & managers; Brain diseases; Secondary schools; Mental health

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: New Mexico; United States--US; Illinois; Maryland; Florida; Alabama

Company / organization: Name: Boston University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/28/sports/ncaafootball/football-concussions-cte.html

Title: After Loss of Son, Coach Faces a Terrible Truth:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 29, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2858156244

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-loss-son-coach-faces-terrible-truth/docview/2858156244/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 29, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After the Loss of a Son, a Football Coach Confronts a Terrible Truth

Author: Branch, John

Publication info: Branch, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-loss-son-football-coach-confronts-terrible/docview/2858024110/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Michael Locksley was helping coach Alabama to a national championship in 2017 when his 25-year-old son, Meiko, was shot and killed.
Meiko was a standout high school football player who bounced between college programs as his mind and life slipped into darkness in his early 20s.
His father is now the coach at the University of Maryland. Michael Locksley has mourned Meiko’s loss, in part, by leading discussions about mental health and trying to destigmatize it among the young men he coaches.
One thing he has not said publicly, until now: Meiko had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or CTE, a degenerative brain disease caused by repeated blows to the head and often associated with football.
CTE can only be diagnosed, with certainty, posthumously.
Locksley said he did not know the precise role that CTE played in Meiko’s decline, and he is right. Researchers cannot make direct links, either. Were Meiko’s severe symptoms and mental-health issues caused by, exacerbated by or unaffected by CTE?
A direct and deeply personal link to CTE would be the most inconvenient of truths.
Locksley still coaches, leading a major program in a major conference. And he has another son, Kai, playing professionally in the Canadian Football League. He justifies his continued role in football with a risk-vs.-reward calculation.
The brain of Meiko Locksley is one of 152 belonging to contact-sport athletes under the age of 30 that were donated between 2008 and 2022 to the UNITE Brain Bank and studied by researchers at Boston University.
In a paper published Monday in JAMA Neurology, the researchers reported that 63 of the athletes, or 41.4% of them, had CTE. Most were football players who never played past college, sometimes not past high school. One was 17.
Researchers reported this year that 345 of 376 donated brains of deceased NFL players had CTE.
But there is a growing subset of young people, too, such as the 63 in the latest study.
One was the son of one of the top football coaches in the country.
From ‘Few Bad Days’ to ‘Shoot Me Now’
On the kitchen wall where Michael and Kia Locksley live is a framed piece of wood that reads, “Home is wherever football takes us.”
Below it are 11 hanging wooden slats, one below another, listing all the coaching stops. Towson. Navy. Pacific. Army. Maryland. Florida. Illinois. New Mexico as a head coach. Maryland again. Alabama. Maryland as head coach.
Meiko Locksley was born April 24, 1992, at the start of that chain. His mother was in college. His father was an assistant football coach at Towson, where he had played safety, making $12,000, he said.
Michael Locksley had one son already, also named Michael. The Locksleys had two more children after Meiko: a boy named Kai and a girl named Kori.
Meiko was reading at 4 and finished his first Harry Potter book at 6. Kia insisted that he balance athletics with art, so he took piano lessons; he played “Here Comes the Bride” for a wedding at 9. He did some child acting and modeling. He wrote poetry and rap. He got good grades. He laughed easily, danced routinely.
“He had very few bad days as a child,” his father said.
Meiko began playing tackle football at 7. It was the late 1990s. Concerns over concussions almost didn’t exist, especially for children.
“They were 7 and weighed nothing,” Kia Locksley said. “And the hits, it almost looked like they just bounced off each other.”
She is haunted by her carefree attitude. She remembers Meiko being knocked out on the field in middle school. Moments later, he seemed OK.
He went to college to play at Youngstown State. It was about then that his parents noticed worrying changes.
Meiko had discipline problems and stopped going to class — uncharacteristic for Meiko and embarrassing for Michael, who presumed that his son was merely running with the wrong crowd.
Meiko transferred to New Mexico to play for his father, moving from quarterback to safety. Kia Locksley was in graduate school there. She and Meiko would meet on campus for coffee.
“He started talking about how he was depressed,” Kia said. “And that was very new.”
The Locksleys got Meiko into counseling. Meiko’s behavior seemed to stabilize.
But Michael Locksley was fired early in their first season together. Meiko stayed. He sustained a concussion that kept him out of several games because of severe headaches.
Meiko transferred to a Pennsylvania junior college, then to Towson. His parents were nearby. Michael had become offensive coordinator at Maryland.
Meiko’s mother noticed he had a growing inability to understand simple conversations.
“I would be on the phone with him for so long about little things, and I just didn’t understand,” Kia said. “I was confused, like: ‘What is wrong with you? Why are you unable to process this?’”
He was moody and easily agitated. He lost a worrying amount of weight and became less concerned about how he dressed and looked. He got into an off-campus fight and was kicked off the football team. He argued routinely with a girlfriend.
Then he began hallucinating.
Once, at home, Meiko became enraged and smashed a window. Police were summoned.
“And,” Kia Locksley said, “that’s when I heard him say, ‘Why is this happening? I didn’t ask for this disease. Why do I have this? Just shoot me now. Just kill me.’ He went for the police officer’s gun. He wanted to die as opposed to dealing with the mental illness that he was struggling with.”
Kia Locksley learned to care for Meiko by “emotionally detaching” from her expectations of him.
Michael Locksley coped with his son’s decline differently.
“I kept wanting to knock the wall down to say, ‘Come on out of here, man,’” Locksley said. “It felt like he was a prisoner in his own brain.”
Then came the night of Sept. 3, 2017.
An Unresolved Death and a Diagnosis
The season opened the night before Meiko died. No. 1 Alabama played No. 3 Florida State in Atlanta.
Michael Locksley, an offensive coordinator for Alabama under Nick Saban, traded text messages with Meiko before the game, then called him after the Crimson Tide won, 24-7.
“I can remember him saying, like, ‘Dang, Pops, man, y’all killed those boys,’” Locksley recalled.
Locksley cried while retelling the conversation.
The next night, Sept. 3, Michael and Kia were at their Alabama apartment. They were awakened by police officers at their door.
Meiko had been shot in the chest in Columbia, Maryland, near where he lived. He died at the University of Maryland Medical Center.
Circumstances were unknown that night, and the case remains unsolved.
It is natural to wonder, knowing the CTE diagnosis, if “mental health” is a convenient euphemism.
“I continue to differentiate between the two,” Locksley said. “I’m a layman, and my layman’s mindset is that they weren’t really connected, and maybe they aren’t. Maybe they were. I don’t know.”
Football ‘Changed the Lineage of My Family’
Michael Locksley has rebuilt Maryland’s football program, winning back-to-back bowl games for the first time in nearly 20 years. He is paid several million dollars a year. He has a large home, drives nice cars and oversees a program with shimmering new offices and football facilities.
“The benefits of playing the game of football, coming from where I was, I wouldn’t be where I am today,” he said. “The brown leather ball with however many ounces of air in it, it changed the lineage of my family.”
Meiko’s diagnosis has changed the way he coaches, Locksley said.
“It definitely makes me think twice about how we practice, how often we are having contact,” he said.
But he dismissed the idea that Maryland might consider following the lead of some colleges that limit contact only to games.
“If one team is doing things a certain way and another is doing it differently, then sometimes that does create a competitive disadvantage,” he said. “I’m judged Saturday on winning games.”
That form of judgment begins again this Saturday, as Maryland opens its season against Towson — the school where Locksley got his start and met his wife, and where Meiko last played football.
The next day will be the anniversary of Meiko’s death.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Music Education; Middle Schools; Neurology; Discipline Problems; Researchers; Armed Forces; Mental Health; Brain; Police; Team Sports; Fathers; College Programs; Mental Disorders

Subject: Chronic traumatic encephalopathy; Young adults; College campuses; Mental disorders; Community colleges; Brain; College football; Mental health; Coaches & managers; High school football

Location: New Mexico; New York; United States--US; Maryland; Florida; Alabama

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: University of Maryland; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Attacks On Police; Automobiles; Canadian Football League; Police; University Of Maryland Medical Center; Columbia University; Mexico; Interscholastic Athletics; Columbia (Md); Age, Chronological; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Florida; Mental Health And Disorders; Sports; Football (College); Canada; Youth; Men And Boys; Illinois; Coaches And Managers; Alabama; Jama Neurology (Journal); Research; Pennsylvania; Florida State University; Towson University; University Of Florida; Boston Univ ersity; Atlanta (Ga); Concussions; Education (K 12); Branch, John; Brain; Youngstown (Pa); New Mexico; University Of Maryland; Journal Of The American Medical Assn; Children And Childhood; Football; Kia Motors Corp; Towson (Md); Colleges And Universities; Saban, Nick; University Of Alabama; Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy; Maryland

Title: After the Loss of a Son, a Football Coach Confronts a Terrible Truth

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 28, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-28T20:19:57Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2858024110

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-loss-son-football-coach-confronts-terrible/docview/2858024110/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

It's a Surprisingly Speedy Shift: [SpecialSections]

Author: Gelles, David; Plumer, Brad; Tankersley, Jim; Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Gelles, David; Plumer, Brad; Tankersley, Jim; Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/surprisingly-speedy-shift/docview/2852900823/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The United States is pivoting away from fossil fuels and toward wind, solar and other renewable energy, even in areas dominated by the oil and gas industries.
Delivery vans in Pittsburgh. Buses in Milwaukee. Cranes loading freight at the Port of Los Angeles. Every municipal building in Houston. All are powered by electricity derived from the sun, wind or other sources of clean energy.
Across the country, a profound shift is taking place that is nearly invisible to most Americans. The nation that burned coal, oil and gas for more than a century to become the richest economy on the planet, as well as historically the most polluting, is rapidly shifting away from fossil fuels.
A similar energy transition is already well underway in Europe and elsewhere. But the United States is catching up, and globally, change is happening at a pace that is surprising even the experts who track it closely.
Wind and solar power are breaking records, and renewables are now expected to overtake coal by 2025 as the world's largest source of electricity. Automakers have made electric vehicles central to their business strategies and are openly talking about an expiration date on the internal combustion engine. Heating, cooling, cooking and some manufacturing are going electric.
As the planet registers the highest temperatures on record, rising in some places to levels incompatible with human life, governments around the world are pouring trillions of dollars into clean energy to cut the carbon pollution that is broiling the planet.
The cost of generating electricity from the sun and wind is falling fast and in many areas is now cheaper than gas, oil or coal. Private investment is flooding into companies that are jockeying for advantage in emerging green industries.
"We look at energy data on a daily basis, and it's astonishing what's happening," said Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International Energy Agency. "Clean energy is moving faster than many people think, and it's become turbocharged lately."
More than $ 1.7 trillion worldwide is expected to be invested in technologies such as wind, solar power, electric vehicles and batteries globally this year, according to the I.E.A., compared with just over $ 1 trillion in fossil fuels. That is by far the most ever spent on clean energy in a year.
Those investments are driving explosive growth. China, which already leads the world in the sheer amount of electricity produced by wind and solar power, is expected to double its capacity by 2025, five years ahead of schedule. In Britain, roughly one-third of electricity is generated by wind, solar and hydropower. And in the United States, 23 percent of electricity is expected to come from renewable sources this year, up 10 percentage points from a decade ago.
"The nature of these exponential curves sometimes causes us to underestimate how quickly changes occur once they reach these inflection points and begin accelerating," said former Vice President Al Gore, who called attention to what he termed a "planetary crisis" 17 years ago in his film "An Inconvenient Truth." "The trend is definitely in favor of more and more renewable energy and less fossil energy."
Even as the pace of change in the United States is surprising everyone from energy experts to automobile executives, fossil fuels still dominate energy production at home and abroad.
Corporations are building new coal mines, oil rigs and gas pipelines. The government continues to award leases for drilling projects on public lands and in federal waters and still subsidizes the industries. After posting record profits last year, leading oil companies are backing away from recent promises to invest more heavily in renewable energy.
The scale of change required to remake the systems that power the United States -- all the infrastructure that needs to be removed, re-engineered and replaced -- is mind-boggling. There are major challenges involved in adding large amounts of renewable energy to antiquated electric grids and mining enough minerals for clean technologies. Some politicians, including most Republicans, want the country to continue burning fossil fuels, even in the face of overwhelming scientific consensus that their use is endangering life on the planet. Dozens of conservative groups organized by the Heritage Foundation have created a policy playbook, should a Republican win the 2024 presidential election, that would reverse course on lowering emissions. It would shred regulations designed to curb greenhouse gases, dismantle nearly every federal clean energy program and boost the production of fossil fuels.
And while energy systems are changing fast, so is the climate. It is far from certain whether the United States and other polluting countries will do what scientists say is required to avert catastrophe: stop adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere by 2050. All of the investment so far has slowed the pace at which emissions are growing worldwide, but the amount of carbon dioxide pumped into the atmosphere is at record levels.
And yet, from Beijing to London, Tokyo to Washington, Oslo to Dubai, the energy transition is undeniably racing ahead. Change is here, even in oil country.
'Energy Is Energy'
As the workday begins in Tulsa, Okla., the assembly line at the electric school bus factory rattles to life. Crews fan out across the city to install solar panels on century-old Tudor homes. Teslas and Ford F-150 Lightnings pull up to charging stations powered in part by the country's second-largest wind farm. And at the University of Tulsa's School of Petroleum Engineering, faculty are working on ways to use hydrogen as a clean energy source.
Tulsa, a former boomtown once known as the "Oil Capital of the World" where the minor league baseball team is the Drillers, is immersed in a new energy revolution.
At the port, an Italian company, Enel, is building a $ 1 billion solar panel factory. The bus factory is operated by Navistar, one of the biggest commercial vehicle makers in the world. And the city's main electric utility, Public Service Company of Oklahoma, now harvests more than 28 percent of its power from wind.
Clean energy entrepreneurs are flocking to Oklahoma, too. Francis Energy, a fast-growing maker of electric vehicle charging stations, is based in Tulsa. Canoo, an electric vehicle start-up, is building a 100,000-square-foot battery factory at a nearby industrial park and a manufacturing plant for its trucks in Oklahoma City, though there are questions about whether the company will have enough funding to realize its plans. And teams from Solar Power of Oklahoma are busy fastening photovoltaic panels to the roofs of homes and businesses around Tulsa.
The city is embracing its shifting identity.
"We have a tremendous sense of pride in our history," said Dewey F. Bartlett Jr., the Republican former mayor of Tulsa who was an oil and gas executive but now helps recruit clean energy companies to the region. "But we also understand that energy is energy, whether it is generated by wind, steam or whatever it might be."
Around the country, clean energy is taking root in unlikely locales.
Houston, home to more than 500 oil and gas companies, also has more than 130 solar- and wind-related companies. Some of the country's largest wind and solar farms are in the Texas flatlands outside the city, and a huge wind farm has been proposed off the coast of Galveston.
In Arkansas, a planned solar farm -- the state's biggest -- is expected to help power a nearby U.S. Steel factory that is undergoing a $ 3 billion upgrade. When complete, the plant will use electric furnaces to mold scrap steel into new products. That will result in about 80 percent less greenhouse gases, the company says, and set the pace for an industry that has been a major polluter.
About two-thirds of the new investment in clean energy is in Republican-controlled states, where policymakers have historically resisted renewables. But with each passing month, the politics seem to matter less than the economics.
"We're the reddest state in the country, and we're an oil and gas state," said J.W. Peters, president of Solar Power of Oklahoma. "So it took a lot of time to convince people that this wasn't snake oil."
Mr. Peters was broke six years ago, with less than $ 400 in his checking account after his contracting business slowed down. Then he responded to a help-wanted ad looking for workers to install solar panels, which were becoming more popular in Tulsa. He now employs 61 workers and has $ 18 million in annual sales. "The environmental benefits are nice," he said, "but most people are doing this for the financial opportunity."
'Something Very Dramatic'
Fifteen years ago, solar panels, wind turbines and battery-powered vehicles were widely viewed as niche technologies, too expensive and unreliable for mainstream use.
But clean energy became cheap far faster than anyone expected. Since 2009, the cost of solar power has plunged by 83 percent, while the cost of producing wind power has fallen by more than half. The price of lithium-ion battery cells fell 97 percent over the past three decades.
Today, solar and wind power are the least expensive new sources of electricity in many markets, generating 12 percent of global electricity and rising. This year, for the first time, global investors are expected to pour more money into solar power -- some $ 380 billion -- than into drilling for oil.
The rapid drop in costs for solar energy, wind power and batteries can be traced to early government investment and steady improvements over time by hundreds of researchers, engineers and entrepreneurs around the world.
"The world has produced nearly three billion solar panels at this point, and every one of those has been an opportunity for people to try to improve the process," said Gregory Nemet, a solar power expert at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. "And all of those incremental improvements add up to something very dramatic."
An equally potent force, along with the technological advances, has been an influx of money -- in particular, a gusher since 2020 of government subsidies.
In the United States, President Biden signed a trio of laws during his first two years in office that allocated unprecedented funds for clean energy: A $ 1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure law provided money to enhance the power grid, buy electric buses for schools and build a national network of electric vehicle chargers. The bipartisan CHIPS and Science Act set aside billions of dollars for semiconductors vital to car manufacturing. And the Inflation Reduction Act, which marks its first anniversary on Aug. 16, is by far the most ambitious attempt to fight climate change in American history.
That landmark law provided tax breaks related to electric vehicles, heat pumps and energy efficiency upgrades, solar panel and wind turbine manufacturing and clean hydrogen production. The government is also investing in efforts to capture carbon emissions and store them before they can reach the atmosphere, as well as technology that can remove them directly from the air.
Originally estimated to cost roughly $ 391 billion between 2022 and 2031, the tax breaks are proving so popular with manufacturers and consumers that estimates now put the cost as high as $ 1.2 trillion over the next decade.
Combined, the three laws have prompted companies to announce at least $ 230 billion in manufacturing investments so far. In Georgia, a Korean solar manufacturer, Qcells, is building a $ 2.5 billion plant. In Nevada, Tesla is building a new $ 3.6 billion electric truck factory. And in Oklahoma, the Enel and Canoo facilities are primed to benefit from the Inflation Reduction Act, as is a new $ 4.4 billion battery factory being considered by Panasonic, the Japanese conglomerate.
"There's a lot of appetite to invest in the United States thanks to that law," said Giovanni Bertolino, an executive at Enel, adding that the plant his company is building in Tulsa would not exist without the Inflation Reduction Act.
Regulations are also hastening the energy transition. Mr. Biden has proposed tough new federal pollution limits on tailpipes and smokestacks, but several states are acting on their own. California, with market muscle that influences the entire auto industry, plans to halt sales of new gas-powered cars by 2035 and new diesel-powered trucks by 2036 -- and a handful of states are following suit. In May, New York became the first state to ban gas hookups in most new buildings, requiring all-electric heating and cooking starting in 2026. Several cities, including New York and San Francisco, have similar prohibitions, although some Republican-controlled states have blocked their municipalities from banning gas.
Heavy investment by the United States has spurred a spirited reaction from other wealthy nations. Countries that initially complained that the United States was unfairly subsidizing clean energy manufacturers have since engaged in a sort of friendly subsidy race.
Canada, South Korea and others have pushed for their companies to have better access to the American incentives, while offering similar subsidies to their domestic manufacturers. After Russia invaded Ukraine last year, the European Union moved to lessen its dependence on Russian oil and gas. In May, for the first time ever, wind and solar power in the E.U. generated more electricity than fossil fuels.
And in China, which is currently both the world's top polluter and the global leader for renewable power, the government continues to invest in every stage of clean energy production, from solar cells to batteries, wind turbines and more. Like the United States, China provides subsidies to buyers of electric vehicles. Last year it spent $ 546 billion on clean energy, far more than any other country in the world.
With costs falling fast, manufacturing has picked up and installations of solar and wind projects have increased. The U.S. solar industry installed a record 6.1 gigawatts of capacity in the first quarter of 2023, a 47 percent increase over the same period last year.
And those low costs have led many of the United States' biggest corporations, such as Alphabet, Amazon and General Motors, to purchase large amounts of wind and solar power, because it burnishes their reputations and because it makes good economic sense.
"We're seeing the nonlinear change happen before us," said Jon Creyts, chief executive of RMI, a nonprofit organization that promotes the energy transition. "And that's important, because we're facing a climate crisis right now."
'A National Phenomenon'
Steve Uerling's Tulsa home is a model of energy efficiency. He replaced all his incandescent light bulbs with LEDs. He installed a heat pump and rooftop solar panels this year. And he drives a plug-in hybrid Ford Fusion and a Tesla Model 3.
Mr. Uerling, a mechanical engineer, said he wanted to see renewable power take off in Oklahoma and was trying to do his part. But he was also driven by his wallet.
"My fuel cost is equivalent to getting 200 miles a gallon on gasoline," he said. "We charge at night, when we get a much cheaper rate on our electricity."
Millions of people around the country are making similar calculations. Electric vehicles are by far the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry, with record sales of 300,000 in the second quarter of 2023, a 48 percent increase from a year earlier. Teslas are now among the best-selling cars in the country, and Ford has expanded its production of the F-150 Lightning, the electric version of its popular pickup truck, after a surge of initial demand created a waiting list.
Concerns among consumers about the availability of charging stations as well as the cost of some models have helped to cool sales somewhat, leading some automakers to slash prices. Still, federal tax credits of up to $ 7,500 have made the least expensive electric vehicles competitive with gas-powered cars. And about two dozen states offer additional tax credits, rebates or reduced fees, further pushing down their cost.
Government action is also helping heavier vehicles go electric. Sales of electric school buses are soaring, largely because of $ 5 billion in federal grants that can cover 100 percent of the cost for low-income communities. The Postal Service plans to spend nearly $ 10 billion to purchase 66,000 electric mail trucks -- roughly 30 percent of its fleet -- over the next five years.
In the private sector, Amazon has ordered 100,000 electric delivery trucks from Rivian. Tesla has an electric semitruck, as do several other manufacturers, including Peterbilt.
Companies that provide charging stations are springing up to meet the demand. Francis Energy has more than 400 chargers across Oklahoma and is expanding nationwide. EVgo, which has one of the largest fast-charging networks in the United States, plans to more than double the 3,000 charging stalls it operates.
"It is not a red-state, blue-state thing," said Cathy Zoi, EVgo's chief executive. "It is a national phenomenon."
In an unusual move, seven carmakers -- BMW Group, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz Group and Stellantis -- are spending $ 1 billion in a joint venture to build 30,000 charging ports on major highways and other locations in the United States and Canada.
The shift is happening so quickly that some of America's most iconic automakers are preparing for a world beyond gasoline-powered cars and trucks.
General Motors, which has the largest market share of any carmaker in the United States, has committed to selling only zero-emissions vehicles by 2035. It's a "once-in-a-generation inflection point" for the 114-year-old automaker, according to Mary Barra, G.M.'s chief executive.
In an interview, Ms. Barra said her company began to consider an all-electric future in 2020. "We started to see this happening with the consumer research we did," said Ms. Barra, who has subsequently bet billions on G.M.'s efforts to reorient its engineering, overhaul its manufacturing facilities and processes and build new battery plants.
As the cost of batteries comes down, and the number of charging stations nationwide goes up, Ms. Barra expects exponential growth. "I think it's going to be definitely an upward trajectory," she said. "It'll be a little bumpy, but bumpy growing."
Photograph Tulsa, Okla., was once known as the "Oil Capital of the World," and the minorleague team is the Drillers -- but clean energy entrepreneurs are flocking there. Clockwise from top: Waiting outside a Tulsa oil refinery; the Golden Driller statue; and ONEOK Field, home to the Drillers. Below, Winford Harris driving an electric bus for Tulsa Transit. (F2); At left, finished school buses lining the manufacturing floor at the IC factory in Tulsa. President Biden signed three laws during his first two years in office that allocated $ 1 trillion to, among other enhancements, purchase electric school buses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MASON TRINCA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F3) This article appeared in print on page F2, F3.

Subject: Wind power; Solar energy; Greenhouse gases; Electricity; Energy industry; Fossil fuels; Clean technology; Electric vehicles; Renewable resources; Wind farms; Automobiles; College baseball; Alternative energy sources; Coal

Business indexing term: Subject: Energy industry Renewable resources

Location: United States--US; Oklahoma

Company / organization: Name: Solar Power of Oklahoma; NAICS: 221114

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/18/climate/energy-transition-climate.html

Title: It's a Surprisingly Speedy Shift:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 19, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodical s--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852900823

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/surprisingly-speedy-shift/docview/2852900823/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Swamp Is in Serious Need Of a Good Cleaning: [Review]

Author: Poniewozik, James

Publication info: Poniewozik, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swamp-is-serious-need-good-cleaning/docview/2852310614/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the return of this scathing satire on Peacock, the economy is a swamp full of predators and prey.
It is tempting to say that "Killing It," on Peacock, is a satire of dog-eat-dog capitalism. But that would be an understatement. There's also plenty of human-kill-snake capitalism. And snake-eat-human. And shark-eat-human. And giant snail -- well, let's not get ahead of ourselves.
Few comedies use wild animals as much or as well as "Killing It," created by Dan Goor and Luke Del Tredici, which returns for a second season on Thursday. But the critters' relevance is more than zoological. In the running allegory of this scathing, slapstick sendup of the American dream, the road to riches -- or simple economic security -- runs through a feral ecosystem of predators and prey.
In the first season, Craig Foster (Craig Robinson), a Florida security guard, enters a snake-killing contest intended to control the spread of invasive pythons in the Everglades. Partnering with Jillian Glopp (Claudia O'Doherty), a stubbornly upbeat ride-share driver, he seeks out the $ 20,000 prize to finance his dream: farming saw palmetto berries to turn into prostate supplements.
Craig and Jillian encounter competitors and obstacles including Brock (Scott MacArthur), a self-proclaimed wildlife expert and aspiring YouTube star, and Rodney Lamonca (Tim Heidecker), a sleazy motivational speaker fleecing wannabe tycoons. This is the economy: You're either offing snakes or selling snake oil.
The first season, set amid the frenzy of the 2016 election, was one of the surprise treats of 2022 TV, a sneakily incisive commentary on the gospel of the hustle. (If you didn't watch it -- and the show's undeserved lack of buzz suggests you didn't -- stream it before starting the new one. It's 10 quick episodes, and you'll want to be up to speed on the serialized story.)
Season 2 drops the snakes but expands the show's scope, leaning into the question of whether it's possible to make a dream come true without moral compromise. Craig has started his saw palmetto farm with Jillian, only to see the first crop threatened by another invasive swamp thing, the giant African land snail. (It's real, and it's -- ugh.)
The struggle to save the farm deepens the partnership between Craig, softhearted but realistic, and Jillian, the persistent Jiminy Cricket on his shoulder. (O'Doherty is giving one of TV's best current comedy performances.) And it draws in new adversaries: the Boones, a family of small-time crooks who operate out of a local strip club and keep an alligator as an enforcer.
Dot-Marie Jones is a standout as the hard-bitten matriarch, Jackie, whose ambitions in horning in on the farm's business are surprisingly modest: to get her extended clan health insurance. (The squabbling, larcenous Boones at times make the season feel like more of a sequel to "Justified" than the actual "Justified" sequel, "City Primeval.")
This is not the Florida of sex, sun and South Beach but rather a desperate swamp full of monsters and hustlers. "Killing It" shares a low-rent vibe with series like the late, raunchy "Florida Girls," whose Melanie Field steals scenes as Craig and Jillian's domineering assistant, Shayla. The nonstop Florida jokes paint the state as a tacky anything-goes zone of scams and lax regulation; at one point, Craig is threatened with "the largest fine the state of Florida can levy against a corporation": $ 50.
Left to bootstrap themselves up, its characters warp their identities and rent themselves out to stay afloat. One subplot involves an exploitative agency for Pitbull impersonators; in another, Craig's ex-wife becomes a pregnancy surrogate for a dubious rich couple.
All this makes for a season even darker than the snake-slaughtering first. But this isn't one of those moody, barely-a-comedy dramedies; it's gut-bustingly, grotesquely funny. It's also well plotted for such a broad comedy, though at times it feels as if it were trying to shove too much story into eight episodes, two fewer than the first season. A story line fleshing out Craig's wayward brother, Isaiah (Rell Battle), is welcome but gets a little lost in the mix.
There's little golden opportunity in the Sunshine State of "Killing It," yet the show is not without optimism. Jillian in particular buoys the series with her relentless conscience and modest dreams; she's happy just to put a down payment on a new Kia (which she names "Mallory"), replacing her old beater that towed a billboard and smelled "like that iguana that died in the engine."
And there's a pot of gold on the horizon, as established by a framing device in which a future Craig, now wildly rich, tells the story of his success. The question, heightened in Season 2, is how much of his soul he had to give up on the way there.
But as caustic as "Killing It" can be about the myth of self-made success, and as brutally as it makes fun of Florida, it also has empathy for the desire to make a dream grow from the muck of an inhospitable swamp. Under the right circumstances, it suggests, all of us are Everglades pythons, invasive species seeking ecological niches to exploit and make our own. As Isaiah says in Season 1, it's "snakes all the way down."
Killing It Streaming on Peacock
Photograph Claudia O'Doherty and Craig Robinson in Season 2 of "Killing It," which asks whether it's possible to make a dream come true without moral compromise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAE PATTON/PEACOCK, VIA UTV) This article appeared in print on page C3.

Subject: Capitalism; Streaming media

Business indexing term: Subject: Capitalism

Location: Everglades; Florida; United States--US

People: Robinson, Craig

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/17/arts/television/killing-it-review-peacock.html

Title: The Swamp Is in Serious Need Of a Good Cleaning:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 18, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Television Review

ProQuest document ID: 2852310614

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swamp-is-serious-need-good-cleaning/docview/2852310614/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gun Toll Grows As Simple Device Adds To Carnage: [National Desk]

Author: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gun-toll-grows-as-simple-device-adds-carnage/docview/2849425769/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Caison Robinson, 14, had just met up with a younger neighbor on their quiet street after finishing his chores when a gunman in a white car rolled up and fired a torrent of bullets in an instant.
"Mom, I've been shot!" he recalled crying, as his mother bolted barefoot out of their house in northwest Las Vegas. "I didn't think I was going to make it, for how much blood was under me," Caison said.
The Las Vegas police say the shooting in May was carried out with a pistol rigged with a small and illegal device known as a switch. Switches can transform semiautomatic handguns, which typically require a trigger pull for each shot, into fully automatic machine guns that fire dozens of bullets with one tug.
By the time the assailant in Las Vegas sped away, Caison, a soft-spoken teenager who loves video games, lay on the pavement with five gunshot wounds. His friend, a 12-year-old girl, was struck once in the leg.
These makeshift machine guns -- able to inflict indiscriminate carnage in seconds -- are helping fuel the national epidemic of gun violence, making shootings increasingly lethal, creating added risks for bystanders and leaving survivors more grievously wounded, according to law enforcement authorities and medical workers.
The growing use of switches, which are also known as auto sears, is evident in real-time audio tracking of gunshots around the country, data shows. Audio sensors monitored by a public safety technology company, Sound Thinking, recorded 75,544 rounds of suspected automatic gunfire in 2022 in portions of 127 cities covered by its microphones, according to data compiled at the request of The New York Times. That was a 49 percent increase from the year before.
"This is almost like the gun version of the fentanyl crisis," Mayor Quinton Lucas of Kansas City, Mo., said in an interview.
Mr. Lucas, a Democrat, said he believes that the rising popularity of switches, especially among young people, is a major reason fewer gun violence victims are surviving in his city.
Homicides in Kansas City are approaching record highs this year, even as the number of nonfatal shootings in the city has decreased.
Switches come in various forms, but most are small Lego-like plastic blocks, about an inch square, that can be easily manufactured on a 3-D printer and go for around $ 200.
Law enforcement officials say the devices are turning up with greater frequency at crime scenes, often wielded by teens who have come to see them as a status symbol that provides a competitive advantage. The proliferation of switches also has coincided with broader accessibility of so-called ghost guns, untraceable firearms that can be made with components purchased online or made with 3-D printers.
"The gang wars and street fighting that used to be with knives, and then pistols, is now to a great extent being waged with automatic weapons," said Andrew M. Luger, the U.S. attorney for Minnesota.
Switches have become a major priority for federal law enforcement officials. But investigators say they face formidable obstacles, including the sheer number in circulation and the ease with which they can be produced and installed at home, using readily available instruction videos on the internet. Many are sold and owned by people younger than 18, who generally face more lenient treatment in the courts.
Social media platforms like YouTube ban content that shows people how to make illegal weapons. However, such content is protected under the First Amendment and remains widely available online.
Federal law enforcement officials have contacted Glock, the company that produces a weapon that has come to define an entire class of easily available 9 millimeter handguns, in search of ways to modify the weapon to make it harder to attach switches. Carlos Guevara, a vice president at Glock, said the company has collaborated with law enforcement officials to target illegal sellers and users of switches but has determined the design of the pistol cannot be altered in that way.
In 2021, a man with a gun modified with a switch fired at two police officers in Houston, killing one and injuring the other. One of the gunmen in a 2022 gang shootout in Sacramento that left six dead and injured 12 people carried a gun fitted with a switch, according to the police. In recent months, shootings using modified weapons have been caught on camera in Milwaukee, prompting the city's mayor to compare the scene to a war zone.
Dr. James Miner, the chair of emergency medicine at Hennepin Healthcare in Minneapolis, which has the largest trauma center in Minnesota, said he first heard about switches in 2020 when he was trying to make sense of why gunshot victims were arriving at the hospital with numerous wounds and why more people seemed to be reporting being shot by stray bullets.
"It's more common now for someone to say: 'I was walking down the street and I heard the sound and all of a sudden my leg hurt, my chest hurt,"' he said. "Rather than: 'I was held up or I was involved in a drug deal gone wrong."'
Since the 1930s, federal laws have tightly restricted ownership of machine guns outside of the military and police departments. In 1986, Congress banned the production of new machine guns for civilian use, making them even more uncommon in the years that followed.
Devices to turn firearms fully automatic have existed for years, but they had not been a major concern for the authorities until recently.
In 2019, federal agents began seizing a significant number of switches imported from China, said Thomas Chittum, a former associate deputy director at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives who now oversees analytics and forensic services at Sound Thinking.
Soon, the authorities began seeing a rise in switches -- which in 2019 sold for as little as $ 19 -- in several major American cities. Between 2017 and 2021, the A.T.F. recovered 5,454 machine gun conversion parts, a 570 percent increase from the preceding five years.
Steven M. Dettelbach, director of the A.T.F., said that trend ominously echoed the days of "Al Capone and the Tommy gun," when criminals often had more firepower than law enforcement.
In an interview, he recalled having asked one of his advisers to bring an inexpensive 3-D printer to his office last year to show how a switch was made. The speed, ease and cheap cost, he said, were chilling.
He said they handed one to him "after a half-hour, 40 minutes."
The Justice Department has stepped up prosecutions of sellers and suppliers over the past few years. Under the Gun Control Act of 1968, it is a crime to manufacture a machine gun, a violation that carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. Last week, prosecutors in Chicago charged a 20-year-old man with selling 25 switches and a 3-D printer to an undercover agent. In November, federal prosecutors in Texas charged a supplier who, they assert, had sold thousands of switches -- shipping some inside of children's toys.
Switches are fast becoming embedded in youth culture, and have been the subject of rap songs and memes on social media. One of four teenagers accused in the killing of an off-duty Chicago police officer this year posted on the internet a song called "Switches," rapping "shoot the switches, they so fast" as he showed an arsenal of weapons.
Caison Robinson said he knew about switches before he was nearly killed by one. Teenagers he knew began bragging about having acquired the converted guns, often from older siblings, he said. They called the switches "buttons," he said, which came in several colors.
"It's become a thing you get to be cool," said Caison, who said in an interview that he tried to steer clear of armed cliques of teenagers in his Las Vegas neighborhood. "It's like a trend now."
His mother, Takeila Peebles, moved to Las Vegas from Chicago seven years ago. She said she thought he would be safer in their new city.
The day of the shooting, Ms. Peebles, who works in medical billing and as a chef from her home, told Caison he could go outside to play only after he tidied up his bedroom, threw in a load of laundry and vacuumed the stairs. When Caison finished his chores, around 3:45 p.m., he headed out. Not long after, she heard gunfire and caught a glimpse of a white Kia Optima speeding away.
A soldier in uniform who happened to be nearby saw what had happened and tended to Caison's wounds until a passing motorist rushed him to the hospital.
One bullet struck his colon, part of which had to be removed, medical officials say. Another pierced his liver. A third punched through a principal vein in his abdomen. The other bullets broke his femur and caused nerve damage to his forearm.
Investigators concluded that the shooting was tied to a gang dispute and that Caison was not the intended target. In late June, Hakeem Collette, 17, pleaded guilty to battery with a deadly weapon and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. He will be eligible for parole in two years.
Caison's mother, Ms. Peebles, said the punishment is outrageous, considering the anguish her family has experienced. For three weeks after her son was shot, she had a recurring nightmare in which she watched helplessly as Caison bled to death on the pavement.
Lately, Ms. Peebles said she often tiptoes into his bedroom to make sure he is still there.
"I'm always at a loss for words when I look at him," she said. "He's not a touchy person, but I just always want to hug him."
Photograph Switches, which are small Lego-like plastic blocks, are put on the back of handguns. (A1); With a switch, pistols can fire dozens of bullets with a single tug of the trigger. Automatic gunfire surged in 2022.; Dr. James Miner noticed gunshot victims in Minneapolis were arriving with numerous wounds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Caison Robinson, 14, survived five gunshot wounds from an attack with a modified gun. He was not the intended target. His mother, Takeila Peebles, came to his aid outside their home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIDGET BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Law enforcement; Social networks; Military weapons; Public prosecutors; 3-D printers; Gun violence; Criminal investigations; Firearm laws & regulations; Murders & murder attempts; Cities; Teenagers; Fatalities

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Kansas City Missouri; Minnesota; Las Vegas Nevada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/12/us/guns-switch-devices.html

Title: Gun Toll Grows As Simple Device Adds To Carnage:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 13, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849425769

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gun-toll-grows-as-simple-device-adds-carnage/docview/2849425769/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inexpensive Add-on Spawns a New Era of Machine Guns

Author: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inexpensive-add-on-spawns-new-era-machine-guns/docview/2849343394/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAS VEGAS — Caison Robinson, 14, had just met up with a younger neighbor on their quiet street after finishing his chores when a gunman in a white car rolled up and fired a torrent of bullets in an instant.
“Mom, I’ve been shot!” he recalled crying, as his mother bolted barefoot out of their house in northwest Las Vegas. “I didn’t think I was going to make it, for how much blood was under me,” Caison said.
Las Vegas police say the shooting in May was carried out with a pistol rigged with a small and illegal device known as a switch. Switches can transform semi-automatic handguns, which typically require a trigger pull for each shot, into fully automatic machine guns that fire dozens of bullets with one tug.
By the time the assailant in Las Vegas sped away, Caison, a soft-spoken teenager who loves video games, lay on the pavement with five gunshot wounds. His friend, a 12-year-old girl, was struck once in the leg.
These makeshift machine guns — able to inflict indiscriminate carnage in seconds — are helping fuel the national epidemic of gun violence, making shootings increasingly lethal, creating added risks for bystanders and leaving survivors more grievously wounded, according to law enforcement authorities and medical workers.
The growing use of switches, which are also known as auto sears, is evident in real-time audio tracking of gunshots around the country, data shows. Audio sensors monitored by a public safety technology company, SoundThinking, recorded 75,544 rounds of suspected automatic gunfire in 2022 in portions of 127 cities covered by its microphones, according to data compiled at the request of The New York Times. That was a 49% increase from the year before.
“This is almost like the gun version of the fentanyl crisis,” Mayor Quinton Lucas of Kansas City, Missouri, said in an interview.
Lucas, a Democrat, said he believes that the rising popularity of switches, especially among young people, is a major reason fewer gun violence victims are surviving in his city.
Homicides in Kansas City are approaching record highs this year, even as the number of nonfatal shootings in the city has decreased.
Switches come in various forms, but most are small Lego-like plastic blocks, about 1 inch square, that can be easily manufactured on a 3D printer and go for around $200.
Law enforcement officials say the devices are turning up with greater frequency at crime scenes, often wielded by teens who have come to see them as a status symbol that provides a competitive advantage. The proliferation of switches also has coincided with broader accessibility of so-called ghost guns, untraceable firearms that can be made with components purchased online or made with 3D printers.
“The gang wars and street fighting that used to be with knives, and then pistols, is now to a great extent being waged with automatic weapons,” said Andrew M. Luger, the U.S. attorney for Minnesota.
Switches have become a major priority for federal law enforcement officials. But investigators say they face formidable obstacles, including the sheer number in circulation and the ease with which they can be produced and installed at home, using readily available instruction videos on the internet. Many are sold and owned by people younger than 18, who generally face more lenient treatment in the courts.
Social media platforms like YouTube ban content that shows people how to make illegal weapons. However, such content is protected under the First Amendment and remains widely available online.
Federal law enforcement officials have contacted Glock, the company that produces a weapon that has come to define an entire class of easily available 9 mm handguns, in search of ways to modify the weapon to make it harder to attach switches. Carlos Guevara, a vice president at Glock, said the company has collaborated with law enforcement officials to target illegal sellers and users of switches but has determined the design of the pistol cannot be altered in that way.
In 2021, a man with a gun modified with a switch fired at two police officers in Houston, killing one and injuring the other. One of the gunmen in a 2022 gang shootout in Sacramento, California, that left six dead and injured 12 people carried a gun fitted with a switch, according to police. In recent months, shootings using modified weapons have been caught on camera in Milwaukee, prompting the city’s mayor to compare the scene with a war zone.
Dr. James Miner, the chair of emergency medicine at Hennepin Healthcare in Minneapolis, which has the largest trauma center in Minnesota, said he first heard about switches in 2020 when he was trying to make sense of why gunshot victims were arriving at the hospital with numerous wounds and why more people seemed to be reporting being shot by stray bullets.
“It’s more common now for someone to say: ‘I was walking down the street and I heard the sound and all of a sudden my leg hurt, my chest hurt,’” he said. “Rather than: ‘I was held up or I was involved in a drug deal gone wrong.’”
Since the 1930s, federal laws have tightly restricted ownership of machine guns outside of the military and police departments. In 1986, Congress banned the production of new machine guns for civilian use, making them even more uncommon in the years that followed.
Devices to turn firearms fully automatic have existed for years, but they had not been a major concern for authorities until recently.
In 2019, federal agents began seizing a significant number of switches imported from China, said Thomas Chittum, a former associate deputy director at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives who now oversees analytics and forensic services at SoundThinking.
Soon, authorities began seeing a rise in switches — which in 2019 sold for as little as $19 — in several major American cities. Between 2017 and 2021, the ATF recovered 5,454 machine gun conversion parts, a 570% increase from the preceding five years.
Steven M. Dettelbach, director of the ATF, said that trend ominously echoed the days of “Al Capone and the Tommy gun,” when criminals often had more firepower than law enforcement.
In an interview, he recalled having asked one of his advisers to bring an inexpensive 3D printer to his office last year to show how a switch was made. The speed, ease and cheap cost, he said, were chilling.
He said they handed one to him “after a half-hour, 40 minutes.”
The Justice Department has stepped up prosecutions of sellers and suppliers over the past few years. Under the Gun Control Act of 1968, it is a crime to manufacture a machine gun, a violation that carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. Last week, prosecutors in Chicago charged a 20-year-old man with selling 25 switches and a 3D printer to an undercover agent. In November, federal prosecutors in Texas charged a supplier who, they assert, had sold thousands of switches — shipping some inside children’s toys.
Switches are fast becoming embedded in youth culture, and have been the subject of rap songs and memes on social media. One of four teenagers accused in the killing of an off-duty Chicago police officer this year posted on the internet a song called “Switches,” rapping “shoot the switches, they so fast” as he showed an arsenal of weapons.
Caison Robinson said he knew about switches before he was nearly killed by one. Teenagers he knew began bragging about having acquired the converted guns, often from older siblings, he said. They called the switches “buttons,” he said, which came in several colors.
“It’s become a thing you get to be cool,” Caison said.
In an interview, he said that he tried to steer clear of armed cliques of teenagers in his Las Vegas neighborhood. “It’s like a trend now.”
His mother, Takeila Peebles, moved to Las Vegas from Chicago seven years ago. She said she thought he would be safer in their new city.
The day of the shooting, Peebles, who works in medical billing and as a chef from her home, told Caison he could go outside to play only after he tidied up his bedroom, threw in a load of laundry and vacuumed the stairs. When Caison finished his chores, around 3:45 p.m., he headed out. Not long after, she heard gunfire and caught a glimpse of a white Kia Optima speeding away.
A soldier in uniform who happened to be nearby saw what had happened and tended to Caison’s wounds until a passing motorist rushed him to the hospital.
One bullet struck his colon, part of which had to be removed, medical officials say. Another pierced his liver. A third punched through a principal vein in his abdomen. The other bullets broke his femur and caused nerve damage to his forearm.
Investigators concluded that the shooting was tied to a gang dispute and that Caison was not the intended target. In late June, Hakeem Collette, 17, pleaded guilty to battery with a deadly weapon and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. He will be eligible for parole in two years.
Peebles said the punishment is outrageous, considering the anguish her family has experienced. For three weeks after her son was shot, she had a recurring nightmare in which she watched helplessly as Caison bled to death on the pavement.
Lately, Peebles said she often tiptoes into his bedroom to make sure he is still there.
“I’m always at a loss for words when I look at him,” she said. “He’s not a touchy person, but I just always want to hug him.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Law enforcement; Social networks; Military weapons; Public prosecutors; 3-D printers; Criminal investigations; Gun violence; Firearm laws & regulations; Murders & murder attempts; Teenagers; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Kansas City Missouri; Minnesota; Las Vegas Nevada

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Assaults; Lego Group; United States; Automobiles; Bureau Of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms And Explosives; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Lucas, Quinton; Texas; Federal State Relations (Us); Computers And The Internet; Factories And Manufacturing; Mass Shootings; Sacramento (Calif); Kia Motors Corp; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Houston (Tex); Organized Crime; 3 D P rinters; Justice Department; Youth; Glock Gmbh; Minneapolis (Minn); Disasters And Emergencies; Teenagers And Adolescence; Sensors; Police; Missouri; Capone, Al; Social Media; Sacramento, Calif, Shootings (2022); Law And Legislation; YoutubeCom; Dettelbach, Steven M; Kansas City (Mo); Democratic Party; Kansas; Minnesota; Computer And Video Games; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Gun Control; Las Vegas (Nev); Chicago (Ill); Milwaukee (Wis); Doctors; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Urban Areas; New York Times; Police Department (Chicago, Ill); Age, Chronological

Title: Inexpensive Add-on Spawns a New Era of Machine Guns

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-12T16:26:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849343394

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inexpensive-add-on-spawns-new-era-machine-guns/docview/2849343394/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

With Breathtaking Speed, Blast of Fire Erases a Town in Hawaii: [National Desk]

Author: Baker, Mike; Fuller, Thomas

Publication info: Baker, Mike; Fuller, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-breathtaking-speed-blast-fire-erases-town/docview/2848650287/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Lahaina lay in ruins following a wildfire that the governor said most likely killed more than 60 people, making it the deadliest in Hawaii's history.
The death toll in a historic Maui town leveled by a wildfire soared to 53 on Thursday as the U.S. military joined search and rescue operations in the charred ruins of one of Hawaii's most celebrated tourist destinations.
Gov. Josh Green of Hawaii said on Thursday that the number of fatalities from the disaster, already the deadliest wildfire in the state's history, would likely exceed the 61 people lost when a tsunami crashed into the Big Island in 1960.
"What we've seen today has been catastrophic," Mr. Green said at a news conference Thursday afternoon, calling the fire "likely the largest natural disaster in Hawaii state history."
Before this week's fire, Front Street in the western Maui town of Lahaina was a leafy, oceanside tourist thoroughfare of art galleries, souvenir shops and restaurants. The firestorm decimated the street, burning right down to the edge of the Pacific Ocean, a grasslands wildfire that became a house-to-house urban inferno.
Along Front Street, wood-framed stores were unrecognizable. Other structures were reduced to concrete shells. Some 270 structures -- including homes, businesses, a school and a church -- were destroyed or heavily damaged, the authorities said.
Images of the smoldering ruins on Front Street offered testament to a panicked escape. A collection of charred vehicles, their tires vaporized, clogged the pavement at odd angles. Some cars jutted onto a sidewalk that in calmer times offered an unfettered view of the Pacific Ocean.
Some survivors escaped into the waves -- the Coast Guard on Thursday reported they had rescued 17 people from the ocean. There was no way of knowing how many occupants of the homes or vehicles did not get out in time.
Lionel Montalvo, a retired fire chief for the Maui Fire Department, said in an interview on Thursday that many elderly would likely be among those killed.
"I believe that a lot of people stayed in their homes expecting the Fire Department to show up and put out the fire," he said. Some older people in the community are accustomed to smoke from the days when sugar cane fields were burned at harvest time, he said. They might not have felt that alarmed when they smelled the smoke, he said.
Officials said identifying the remains of the dead among the ashes would be a long, painstaking process. Chief John Pelletier of the Maui County Police Department described Lahaina as "hallowed sacred ground" because of the number of remains around the town. The region's FEMA administrator said that cadaver dogs are being sent from Washington and California to search for human remains. Asked how many people were missing, Chief Pelletier said: "Honestly we don't know." The lack of internet and power were hampering the search, he said.
The Maui wildfire carries the highest death toll of any fire in the United States since the 2018 Camp fire in California that killed 85 people.
By Thursday, the fire was largely contained, the authorities said, and search and rescue efforts were being aided by 30 members of the U.S. military. Thousands of tourists were evacuated from the island, including London Breed, San Francisco's mayor, who was vacationing on Maui when the fire struck. Thousands more were crowding shelters on the island.
"We are going to need to house thousands of people," the governor said on Thursday. He urged people across the state to open their homes to those made homeless by the fires.
Some residents of Lahaina raised questions over the timeliness of evacuation orders. A number of survivors said they fled because they saw the fire, not because of any instructions from authorities. The Maui County mayor, Richard T. Bissen Jr., said at the news conference on Thursday that "mandatory evacuations did take place" in affected areas, but he did not address why many people said they got no alerts.
Evacuation orders posted to social media show a confused picture. Areas around the Lahaina Intermediate School, on the eastern edge of town, were ordered to evacuate at 6:40 a.m. on Tuesday. Two and a half hours later, the Fire Department declared that the fire had been "100 percent contained." But the fire flared back up, and new evacuation orders did not come until late that afternoon, after 4 p.m.
Cole Millington, who runs a hot sauce company in Lahaina, said the fire came with breathtaking speed. Within 15 minutes of seeing smoke outside his window, he and his roommates left their home. The street was on fire, and fallen power lines and trees were blocking the way. No one knew what was going on, he said, and traffic out of Lahaina was at a standstill. Everything he owns is now gone, he said.
Tad Craig, a wedding photographer, described hearing exploding propane tanks and being buffeted by winds so powerful that smoke from the fires was blowing sideways. "It was just a total inferno -- Armageddon," he said.
At around 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Michele Numbers-Stefl looked out a window of the home that she shares with her husband, Mark Stefl, in Lahaina and saw flames on a hill about 500 yards away.
"Oh, my God! Pack up the dogs, there's a fire there!" she yelled to her husband, according to Mr. Stefl.
He told her, "Don't worry, the Fire Department will put it out."
Within what felt like mere seconds, Mr. Stefl said, the wildfire, fanned by the raging winds, had raced down the hill and was just 30 yards from their house. "When I turned around, it was right there. That's how fast it was," Mr. Stefl said. "It was like a freight train coming down the mountain."
He and his wife ran to their cars, trying to scoop up their two dogs and two cats on the way. "We literally ran down the stairs, grabbed cats and dogs and backed up the drive through black smoke, fire, heat, just flying through," Mr. Stefl said.
Mr. Stefl, 67, a tile setter, drove his pickup. His wife was in her Kia Sorento.
"I couldn't see where I was driving and drove down the hill, and next thing you know, the town's on fire," Mr. Stefl said. "The fire was just traveling too fast and too hot, and next thing you know Lahaina Town is gone, literally gone."
Brian Ferguson, a spokesman for the California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, for which wildfires are a constant challenge, said Hawaii authorities might have had trouble alerting tourists to danger.
"Alerts are the lifeblood of getting people to safety in a crisis," Mr. Ferguson said. "But if you're visiting from New Jersey, are you signed up for emergency alerts? Probably not."
Hawaii's emergency response also has geographic disadvantages, Mr. Ferguson said. Tens of thousands of state and local firefighters are on constant alert in California, for instance; Hawaii, a rural state, has a far lower population and far fewer emergency medical workers. Access to mutual aid and firefighting equipment is also far easier on the mainland, he noted. "Honolulu can't just drive extra fire trucks over, if Maui needs them," he said.
The cause of the wildfires was not yet known. However, in recent years brush fires in Maui have been fueled by nonnative grasses that overtook abandoned pineapple and sugar cane plantations, according to Clay Trauernicht, a tropical fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Declining rainfall, a result of weather patterns and of rising temperatures likely influenced by climate change, have also increased the risk.
This week a hurricane hundreds of miles south of the Hawaii islands helped to create the dangerous conditions that drove the fire across western Maui and into Lahaina, meteorologists said. The hurricane pulled in moisture, reinforcing the already dry conditions on Maui.
Robert Bohlin with the Hawaii Weather Office said that the strong winds accelerated when they hit Maui's mountains, similar to the effect of a strong water current hitting a rock and speeding up on the other side. The vicious winds propelled the flames into the town, turning a wildfire into an urban one.
A number of landmarks in the historic town appear to have been destroyed, including the Baldwin Home Museum, a former missionary compound and the oldest standing home on the island.
One of the town's cherished landmarks is still standing: a 150-year-old banyan tree on Front Street. But it appears to have been badly singed by the fire, and whether the tree will survive is unclear.
The tree was just eight feet tall when it was planted in 1873 to commemorate a Protestant mission to Lahaina a half-century earlier. However, years of careful tending by residents helped the banyan tree grow to more than 60 feet tall, according to the Lahaina Restoration Foundation, which manages more than a dozen historic sites in the town.
"It's said that if the roots are healthy, it will likely grow back," county officials said in an update about the tree late Wednesday. "But it looks burned."
The damage to Maui businesses also appears substantial. Theo Morrison, executive director of the foundation, said that the damage in Lahaina, particularly to its historic district, is significant.
"People haven't just lost homes," she said. "They're going to lose jobs, and we have just lost a big part of our economy. Those historic sites were part of what made Lahaina such a special place."
Mike Baker reported from Lahaina, Hawaii, and Thomas Fuller from San Francisco. Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Jill Cowan, Colbi Edmonds, Jacey Fortin, Shawn Hubler, Judson Jones, Michael Levenson and Simon Romero contributed reporting.
Mike Baker reported from Lahaina, Hawaii, and Thomas Fuller from San Francisco. Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Jill Cowan, Colbi Edmonds, Jacey Fortin, Shawn Hubler, Judson Jones, Michael Levenson and Simon Romero contributed reporting.
Photograph The extent of the destruction was evident Thursday in Lahaina, on Maui. Wildfires have killed at least 53 on the island this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK T. FALLON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1); The historic Waiola Church and Lahaina Hongwanji Mission in Lahaina, Hawaii, were engulfed as a wildfire raged on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW THAYER/THE MAUI NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); A highway leading out of Lahaina was crowded on Thursday. Strong winds caused a grassland wildfire to overtake the town. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO GARCIA/REUTERS); Waiting at the Kahului Airport for flights off the island of Maui on Wednesday. Thousands of visitors were forced to evacuate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Destroyed cars in Lahaina on Thursday. Their odd angles suggest panicked attempts to escape. With access to the town barred, it wasn't known whether the vehicles' occupants got out in time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Fatalities; Fire departments; Houses; Evacuations & rescues; Press conferences; Mayors; Governors; Storm damage; Forest & brush fires; Sugarcane; Human remains

Location: United States--US; Pacific Ocean; California; Lahaina Hawaii

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/10/us/maui-hawaii-wildfires-deaths-damage.html

Title: With Breathtaking Speed, Blast of Fire Erases a Town in Hawaii:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848650287

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-breathtaking-speed-blast-fire-erases-town/docview/2848650287/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Technology Can Save Children In Hot Cars. It Isn't Mandated.: [National Desk]

Author: Levenson, Michael

Publication info: Levenson, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/technology-can-save-children-hot-cars-isnt/docview/2848650266/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A moment of forgetfulness by a distracted or sleep-deprived parent can be devastating. Experts and child-safety advocates have called for interior motion sensors in all vehicles.
Ever since Tyler Cestia left his son Thomas in his truck on a hot morning in June two years ago, he has felt, he said, like a cork bobbing in the ocean.
It was June 14, 2021, and Mr. Cestia was preparing for a stressful audit at work when he forgot to drop off Thomas at the babysitter on the way to his office in New Iberia, La.
At lunchtime, he drove to a restaurant with the auditor and then back to his office.
That afternoon, it occurred to him that he didn't remember seeing the babysitter that morning. He ran to his truck where he found Thomas in his car seat behind the driver's seat. Thomas, who was 2 and a half years old, was pronounced dead at the scene.
"It was just a total utter shock," said Mr. Cestia, 37, who lives in New Iberia with his wife, Pam, and their two other children. "It's almost like a nightmare that's not real. I'm living in a makeshift world that's not real. And once you come down off that, it's a daily grind."
Mr. Cestia said he has coped with the extreme grief with help from his religious faith and therapy. He has also had the support of his wife.
"People think, 'Oh, how does somebody do that?"' Pam Cestia said. "You don't forget your cellphone. You don't forget this. But he was hyper-focused on something else. He's not a bad parent. He's not a bad father."
The aftermath in other cases has been more dire. Marriages have fallen apart. Caregivers have been prosecuted and faced prison time. In one case last year in Chesterfield, Va., a father who realized what he had done immediately went home and killed himself.
And still the deaths come. Just this week in Houston, a 3-month-old died after he was left unattended in a car, the police said. About 40 children a year die from heatstroke in cars, either because they are left in the vehicle or because they become trapped, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
That averages out to a child dying in a hot car every 10 days in the United States. The deaths are more frequent in summer but happen in every month of the year.
Child-safety advocates said that new technology could help prevent these recurring tragedies. Vehicles with interior motion sensors, for example, can sound the horn and send alerts to a driver's phone if they detect a child in the back seat after the car has been turned off.
But automakers and regulators have not made the technology standard equipment in new vehicles, frustrating safety experts. According to Kids and Car Safety, a nonprofit group, 1,050 children have died in hot cars nationwide since 1990 and at least another 7,300 have survived with varying injuries.
"It should really be embarrassing for the automakers and to the government that this has not already been taken care of," said Janette E. Fennell, the founder and president of Kids and Car Safety. "When you have the technology to prevent these deaths, and it's not expensive, what are we waiting for?"
Federal regulators said they were developing rules that would require new vehicles to have lights and chimes to remind drivers to check the back seat after they turn off a car, as required under the $ 1 trillion infrastructure law that President Biden signed in 2021. But that requirement won't take effect until 2025.
Major automakers have also pledged that by 2025 all new vehicles will include basic back-seat reminder systems. As of last October, more than 150 models offered the reminders, according to the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, which said in a statement that the industry was making "major progress" toward its goal of universal back-seat reminders.
But higher-tech systems that use radar or ultrasonic sensors to detect a child in the back seat remain relatively rare.
"It's a matter of cost and demand," said Emily A. Thomas, the manager of auto safety at Consumer Reports, which holds the position that child-detection systems should be standard in new vehicles. "People don't know this is what they need, so there's not a huge demand for it and, unfortunately, the auto industry responds to what's required. So if it's not required, they won't put it in as standard equipment."
About half of all hot-car deaths lead to criminal charges ranging from child endangerment to murder, according to Kids and Car Safety. Many parents and caregivers take plea deals to avoid jail time and because they are unwilling to face a court battle after the death of a child, the group said.
The psychological underpinnings of the problem have been discussed for years, at least since 2009, when Gene Weingarten of The Washington Post wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning article exploring whether criminal charges are really appropriate for parents who accidentally kill their children by leaving them in cars.
David M. Diamond, a neuroscientist at the University of South Florida who was quoted in that story, has been patiently explaining the issue ever since, including for a documentary film, "Fatal Distraction," that was released in 2021.
Dr. Diamond said that many of the deaths happen when parents drive to work and go into "autopilot mode and lose awareness of the child in the back seat."
During the drive, the part of the brain that handles habitual behaviors like commuting "outcompetes and suppresses" the conscious memory system, which is responsible for reminding a parent to stop and drop off the child at day care, Dr. Diamond said. Stressed and sleep-deprived parents are particularly susceptible to this problem, he said.
"That's why we need technology because, frankly, we are so forgetful," Dr. Diamond said in an interview. "I try to emphasize to people that it's not negligence, it's not bad parenting, it's just part of being human."
The reminder lights and chimes installed in many newer vehicles advise drivers to check the back seat when the car is turned off. Those systems are usually triggered by a rear door being opened before or during a trip, but they cannot actually detect whether a child is in the car.
Ultrasonic sensors, found in some Kia and Hyundai vehicles, can detect a child (or a pet) moving in the back seat after a vehicle has been locked and then blow the horn and send text messages to the driver. But ultrasonic sensors may not detect a child sleeping in a rear-facing car seat, Dr. Thomas said.
Radar-based systems can purportedly detect even slight movements like the rise and fall of the chest of a child sleeping in a car seat. At least one vehicle, the Genesis GV70, features that technology.
In March, the Federal Communications Commission approved a specific frequency for short-range radar, which automakers say will make it much easier to deploy child-detecting radar inside cars. Before that, companies had to seek waivers from the F.C.C.
While radar technology is not widely available, safety advocates said that drivers could remind themselves to check the back seat by putting something important next to the child, like a purse, phone, wallet or even one of their shoes.
The Cestias have their own system. Every morning at 8:05 they text each other to make sure that their 1½-year-old was dropped off at the babysitter.
They have also spoken out strongly in favor of mandatory child-detection technology in cars.
"This is my opportunity to be Thomas's mom and to advocate for him," Pam Cestia said. "His story can help save other people's lives."
Photograph Pam and Tyler Cestia of New Iberia, La., in the bedroom of their son Thomas, who died in 2021. "It's a daily grind," Mr. Cestia said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDMUND D. FOUNTAIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) This article appeared in print on page A1, A19.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Automobile industry; Children & youth; Caregivers; Sensors; Sleep deprivation; Automobile safety; Vehicles; Fatalities; Child welfare

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/10/us/hot-car-deaths-sensors.html

Title: Technology Can Save Children In Hot Cars. It Isn't Mandated.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848650266

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/technology-can-save-children-hot-cars-isnt/docview/2848650266/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Death Toll Soars in Maui, as Rescue Crews Scour Decimated Town

Author: Baker, Mike; Fuller, Thomas

Publication info: Baker, Mike; Fuller, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/death-toll-soars-maui-as-rescue-crews-scour/docview/2848622946/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAHAINA, Hawaii — The death toll in a historic Maui town leveled by a wildfire soared to 53 on Thursday as the U.S. military joined search-and-rescue operations in the charred ruins of one of Hawaii’s most celebrated tourist destinations.
Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said Thursday that the number of fatalities from the disaster, already the deadliest wildfire in the state’s history, would probably exceed the 61 people lost when a tsunami crashed into the Big Island in 1960.
“What we’ve seen today has been catastrophic,” Green said at a news conference Thursday afternoon, calling the fire “likely the largest natural disaster in Hawaii state history.”
Before this week’s fire, Front Street in the western Maui town of Lahaina was a leafy, oceanside tourist thoroughfare of art galleries, souvenir shops and restaurants. The firestorm decimated the street, burning down to the edge of the Pacific Ocean, a grasslands wildfire that became a house-to-house urban inferno.
Along Front Street, wood-framed stores were unrecognizable. Other structures were reduced to concrete shells. About 270 structures — including homes, businesses, a school and a church — were destroyed or heavily damaged, authorities said.
Images of the smoldering ruins on Front Street offered testament to a panicked escape. A collection of charred vehicles, their tires vaporized, clogged the pavement at odd angles. Some cars jutted onto a sidewalk that in calmer times offered an unfettered view of the Pacific Ocean.
Some survivors escaped into the waves — the Coast Guard on Thursday reported they had rescued 17 people from the ocean. There was no way of knowing how many occupants of the homes or vehicles did not get out in time.
Lionel Montalvo, a retired fire chief for the Maui Fire Department, said in an interview Thursday that many elderly would probably be among those killed.
“I believe that a lot of people stayed in their homes expecting the Fire Department to show up and put out the fire,” he said. Some older people in the community are accustomed to smoke from the days when sugar cane fields were burned at harvest time, he said. They might not have felt that alarmed when they smelled the smoke, he said.
Officials said identifying the remains of the dead among the ashes would be a long, painstaking process. Chief John Pelletier of the Maui County Police Department described Lahaina as “hallowed sacred ground” because of the number of remains around the town. The region’s Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator said that cadaver dogs are being sent from Washington and California to search for human remains. Asked how many people were missing, Pelletier said: “Honestly we don’t know.” The lack of internet and power were hampering the search, he said.
The Maui wildfire carries the highest death toll of any fire in the United States since the 2018 Camp fire in California that killed 85 people.
By Thursday, the fire was largely contained, authorities said, and search-and-rescue efforts were being aided by 30 members of the U.S. military. Thousands of tourists were evacuated from the island, including San Francisco Mayor London Breed, who was vacationing on Maui when the fire struck. Thousands more were crowding shelters on the island.
“We are going to need to house thousands of people,” Green said Thursday. He urged people across the state to open their homes to those made homeless by the fires.
Some residents of Lahaina raised questions over the timeliness of evacuation orders. A number of survivors said they fled because they saw the fire, not because of any instructions from authorities. The Maui County mayor, Richard Bissen Jr., said at the news conference Thursday that “mandatory evacuations did take place” in affected areas, but he did not address why many people said they got no alerts.
Evacuation orders posted to social media show a confused picture. Areas around the Lahaina Intermediate School, on the eastern edge of town, were ordered to evacuate at 6:40 a.m. Tuesday. Two and a half hours later, the Fire Department declared that the fire had been “100% contained.” But the fire flared back up, and new evacuation orders did not come until late that afternoon, after 4 p.m.
Cole Millington, who runs a hot sauce company in Lahaina, said the fire came with breathtaking speed. Within 15 minutes of seeing smoke outside his window, he and his roommates left their home. The street was on fire, and fallen power lines and trees were blocking the way. No one knew what was going on, he said, and traffic out of Lahaina was at a standstill. Everything he owns is now gone, he said.
Tad Craig, a wedding photographer, described hearing exploding propane tanks and being buffeted by winds so powerful that smoke from the fires was blowing sideways. “It was just a total inferno — Armageddon,” he said.
At about 2:30 p.m. Tuesday, Michele Numbers-Stefl looked out a window of the home that she shares with her husband, Mark Stefl, in Lahaina and saw flames on a hill about 500 yards away.
“Oh, my God! Pack up the dogs, there’s a fire there!” she yelled to her husband, according to Stefl.
He told her, “Don’t worry, the Fire Department will put it out.”
Within what felt like mere seconds, Stefl said, the wildfire, fanned by the raging winds, had raced down the hill and was just 30 yards from their house. “When I turned around, it was right there. That’s how fast it was,” Stefl said. “It was like a freight train coming down the mountain.”
He and his wife ran to their cars, trying to scoop up their two dogs and two cats on the way. “We literally ran down the stairs, grabbed cats and dogs and backed up the drive through black smoke, fire, heat, just flying through,” Stefl said.
Stefl, 67, a tile setter, drove his pickup. His wife was in her Kia Sorento.
“I couldn’t see where I was driving and drove down the hill, and next thing you know, the town’s on fire,” Stefl said. “The fire was just traveling too fast and too hot, and next thing you know, Lahaina Town is gone, literally gone.”
Brian Ferguson, a spokesperson for the California Governor’s Office of Emergency Services, for which wildfires are a constant challenge, said Hawaii authorities might have had trouble alerting tourists to danger.
“Alerts are the lifeblood of getting people to safety in a crisis,” Ferguson said. “But if you’re visiting from New Jersey, are you signed up for emergency alerts? Probably not.”
Hawaii’s emergency response also has geographic disadvantages, Ferguson said. For example, in California, tens of thousands of state and local firefighters are on constant alert; Hawaii, a rural state, has a far lower population and far fewer emergency medical workers. Access to mutual aid and firefighting equipment is also far easier on the mainland, he noted. “Honolulu can’t just drive extra firetrucks over, if Maui needs them,” he said.
The cause of the wildfires was not yet known. However, in recent years, brush fires in Maui have been fueled by nonnative grasses that overtook abandoned pineapple and sugar cane plantations, according to Clay Trauernicht, a tropical fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Declining rainfall, a result of weather patterns and of rising temperatures probably influenced by climate change, has also increased the risk.
This week, a hurricane hundreds of miles south of the Hawaii islands helped to create the dangerous conditions that drove the fire across western Maui and into Lahaina, meteorologists said. The hurricane pulled in moisture, reinforcing the already dry conditions on Maui.
Robert Bohlin, who is with the Hawaii Weather Office, said the strong winds accelerated when they hit Maui’s mountains, similar to the effect of a strong water current hitting a rock and speeding up on the other side. The vicious winds propelled the flames into the town, turning a wildfire into an urban one.
A number of landmarks in the historic town appear to have been destroyed, including the Baldwin Home Museum, a former missionary compound and the oldest standing home on the island.
One of the town’s cherished landmarks is still standing: a 150-year-old banyan tree on Front Street. But it appears to have been badly singed by the fire, and whether the tree will survive is unclear.
The tree was just 8 feet tall when it was planted in 1873 to commemorate a Protestant mission to Lahaina a half-century earlier. However, years of careful tending by residents helped the banyan tree grow to more than 60 feet tall, according to the Lahaina Restoration Foundation, which manages more than a dozen historic sites in the town.
“It’s said that if the roots are healthy, it will likely grow back,” county officials said in an update about the tree late Wednesday. “But it looks burned.”
The damage to Maui businesses also appears substantial. Theo Morrison, executive director of the foundation, said the damage in Lahaina, particularly to its historic district, is significant.
“People haven’t just lost homes,” she said. “They’re going to lose jobs, and we have just lost a big part of our economy. Those historic sites were part of what made Lahaina such a special place.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Fatalities; Fire departments; Houses; Evacuations & rescues; Press conferences; Mayors; Forest & brush fires; Storm damage; Sugarcane; Human remains

Location: United States--US; Pacific Ocean; California; Hawaii

Identifier / keyword: Explosions (Accidental); Restaurants; Unemployment; Rescues; News And News Media; San Francisco (Calif); Hurricanes And Tropical Storms; Labor And Jobs; Evacuations And Evacuees; Wind; Lahaina (Hawaii); Breed, London; United States; Maui (Hawaii); Hawaii (The Big Island); United States Coast Guard; Oceans And Seas; Government Employees; California; Weather; Automobiles; Maritime Accidents And Safety; Hirono, Mazie K; Trees And Shrubs; Pacific Ocean; Art; Global Warming; Fuller, Thomas; Wildfires; Facebook Inc; Deaths (Fatalities); University Of Hawaii; Minnesota; Historic Buildings And Sites; United States Defense And Military Forces; Collectors And Collections; Fires And Firefighters; Transit Systems; Hawaii; Travel And Vacations; Memorabilia And Souvenirs; Honolulu (Hawaii); Roads And Traffic; Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Army

Title: Death Toll Soars in Maui, as Rescue Crews Scour Decimated Town

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-11T03:02:46Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848622946

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/death-toll-soars-maui-as-rescue-crews-scour/docview/2848622946/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fears of Rising Death Toll in Maui, as Rescue Crews Scour Decimated Town

Author: Baker, Mike; Fuller, Thomas

Publication info: Baker, Mike; Fuller, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fears-rising-death-toll-maui-as-rescue-crews/docview/2848551614/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAHAINA, Hawaii — Before dozens of lives were lost in the deadliest wildfires in Hawaii’s history, Front Street in Lahaina was a leafy, oceanside tourist thoroughfare of art galleries, souvenir shops and restaurants. The firestorm that tore across Maui’s western coast this week decimated Front Street, burning right down to the edge of the Pacific Ocean.
Wildfires that have scorched the grasslands of the Hawaiian islands have become increasingly common but until this week had not flattened a town. The fire that destroyed large parts of Lahaina on Tuesday and Wednesday was a grasslands wildfire that became a house-to-house urban inferno.
Along Front Street, wood-framed stores were flattened. Other structures were reduced to concrete shells. About 270 structures — including homes, businesses, a school and a church — were destroyed or heavily damaged, authorities said.
Images of the smoldering ruins on Front Street offered testament to a panicked escape. A collection of charred vehicles, their tires vaporized, clogged the pavement at odd angles. Some cars jutted onto a sidewalk that in calmer times offered an unfettered view of the Pacific Ocean.
Some survivors escaped into the waves, where the Coast Guard rescued them. But with access to downtown Lahaina now heavily restricted by authorities, there was no way of knowing Thursday how many occupants of the homes or vehicles did not get out in time.
Lionel Montalvo, a retired fire chief for the Maui Fire Department, said in an interview Thursday that he feared the death toll would rise significantly, especially among the elderly. Already, the wildfire had the highest death toll of any fire in the United States since the 2018 Camp fire in California that killed 85 people.
“I believe that a lot of people stayed in their homes expecting the Fire Department to show up and put out the fire,” he said. Some older people in the community are accustomed to smoke from the days when sugar cane fields were burned at harvest time, he said. They might not have felt that alarmed when they smelled the smoke, he said.
Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said Thursday that the death toll would likely exceed the 61 people lost when a tsunami crashed into the Big Island in 1960. A Maui County spokesperson said the official death toll was 53 as of Thursday afternoon.
By Thursday, the Maui fires, including the one that devastated Lahaina, were largely contained, authorities said, and search-and-rescue efforts were being aided by 30 members of the U.S. military. Thousands of tourists were evacuated from the island, including San Francisco Mayor London Breed, who was vacationing on Maui when the fire struck. Thousands more were crowding shelters on the island.
Some residents raised questions over the timeliness of evacuation orders. A number of survivors said they fled because they saw the fire, not because of any instructions from authorities.
Evacuation orders posted to social media show a confused picture. Areas around the Lahaina Intermediate School, on the eastern edge of town, were ordered to evacuate at 6:40 a.m. Tuesday. Two and a half hours later, the Fire Department declared that the fire had been “100% contained.” But the fire flared back up, and new evacuation orders did not come until late that afternoon, after 4 p.m.
Cole Millington, who runs a hot sauce company in Lahaina, said the fire came with breathtaking speed. Within 15 minutes of seeing smoke outside his window, he and his roommates left their home. The street was on fire, and fallen power lines and trees were blocking the way. No one knew what was going on, he said, and traffic out of Lahaina was at a standstill. Everything he owns is now gone, he said.
Tad Craig, a wedding photographer, described hearing exploding propane tanks and being buffeted by winds so powerful that smoke from the fires was blowing sideways. “It was just a total inferno — Armageddon,” he said.
At about 2:30 p.m. Tuesday, Michele Numbers-Stefl looked out a window of the home that she shares with her husband, Mark Stefl, in Lahaina and saw flames on a hill about 500 yards away.
“Oh, my God! Pack up the dogs, there’s a fire there!” she yelled to her husband, according to Stefl.
He told her, “Don’t worry, the Fire Department will put it out.”
Within what felt like mere seconds, Stelf said, the wildfire, fanned by the raging winds, had raced down the hill and was just 30 yards from their house. “When I turned around, it was right there. That’s how fast it was,” Stefl said. “It was like a freight train coming down the mountain.”
He and his wife ran to their cars, trying to scoop up their two dogs and two cats on the way. “We literally ran down the stairs, grabbed cats and dogs and backed up the drive through black smoke, fire, heat, just flying through,” Stefl said.
Stefl, 67, a tile setter, drove his pickup. His wife was in her Kia Sorento.
“I couldn’t see where I was driving and drove down the hill, and next thing you know, the town’s on fire,” Stefl said. “The fire was just traveling too fast and too hot, and next thing you know, Lahaina Town is gone, literally gone.”
Brian Ferguson, a spokesperson for the California Governor’s Office of Emergency Services, for which wildfires are a constant challenge, said Hawaii authorities might have had trouble alerting tourists to danger.
“Alerts are the lifeblood of getting people to safety in a crisis,” Ferguson said. “But if you’re visiting from New Jersey, are you signed up for emergency alerts? Probably not.”
Hawaii’s emergency response also has geographic disadvantages, Ferguson said. For example, in California, tens of thousands of state and local firefighters are on constant alert; Hawaii, a rural state, has a far lower population and far fewer emergency medical workers. Access to mutual aid and firefighting equipment is also far easier on the mainland, he noted. “Honolulu can’t just drive extra firetrucks over, if Maui needs them,” he said.
The cause of the wildfires was not yet known. However, in recent years, brush fires in Maui have been fueled by nonnative grasses that overtook abandoned pineapple and sugar cane plantations, according to Clay Trauernicht, a tropical fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Declining rainfall, a result of weather patterns and of rising temperatures probably influenced by climate change, has also increased the risk.
This week, a hurricane hundreds of miles south of the Hawaii islands helped to create the dangerous conditions that drove the fire across western Maui and into Lahaina, meteorologists said. The hurricane pulled in moisture, reinforcing the already dry conditions on Maui.
Robert Bohlin, who is with the Hawaii Weather Office, said the strong winds accelerated when they hit Maui’s mountains, similar to the effect of a strong water current hitting a rock and speeding up on the other side. The vicious winds propelled the flames into the town, turning a wildfire into an urban one.
A number of landmarks in the historic town appear to have been destroyed, including the Baldwin Home Museum, a former missionary compound and the oldest standing home on the island.
One of the town’s cherished landmarks is still standing: a 150-year-old banyan tree on Front Street. But it appears to have been badly singed by the fire, and whether the tree will survive is unclear.
The tree was just 8 feet tall when it was planted in 1873 to commemorate a Protestant mission to Lahaina a half-century earlier. However, years of careful tending by residents helped the banyan tree grow to more than 60 feet tall, according to the Lahaina Restoration Foundation, which manages more than a dozen historic sites in the town.
“It’s said that if the roots are healthy, it will likely grow back,” county officials said in an update about the tree late Wednesday. “But it looks burned.”
The damage to Maui businesses also appears substantial. Theo Morrison, executive director of the foundation, said the damage in Lahaina, particularly to its historic district, is significant.
“People haven’t just lost homes,” she said. “They’re going to lose jobs, and we have just lost a big part of our economy. Those historic sites were part of what made Lahaina such a special place.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Fire departments; Houses; Evacuations & rescues; Airports; Historic buildings & sites; Mayors; Older people; Storm damage; Forest & brush fires; Sugarcane

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports

Location: New York; United States--US; Pacific Ocean; California; Hawaii

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Kahului Airport; NAICS: 488119

Identifier / keyword: Explosions (Accidental); Restaurants; Unemployment; Rescues; News And News Media; San Francisco (Calif); Hurricanes And Tropical Storms; Labor And Jobs; Evacuations And Evacuees; Wind; Lahaina (Hawaii); Breed, London; United States; Maui (Hawaii); Hawaii (The Big Island); United States Coast Guard; Oceans And Seas; Government Employees; California; Weather; Automobiles; Maritime Accidents And Safety; Hirono, Mazie K; Trees And Shrubs; Pacific Ocean; Art; Global Warming; Fuller, Thomas; Wildfires; Facebook Inc; Deaths (Fatalities); University Of Hawaii; Minnesota; Historic Buildings And Sites; United States Defense And Military Forces; Collectors And Collections; Fires And Firefighters; Transit Systems; Hawaii; Travel And Vacations; Memorabilia And Souvenirs; Honolulu (Hawaii); Roads And Traffic; Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Army

Title: Fears of Rising Death Toll in Maui, as Rescue Crews Scour Decimated Town

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-11T00:12:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848551614

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fears-rising-death-toll-maui-as-rescue-crews/docview/2848551614/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dozens of Children Die Every Year in Hot Cars. Could Technology Save Them?

Author: Levenson, Michael

Publication info: Levenson, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dozens-children-die-every-year-hot-cars-could/docview/2848503378/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Ever since Tyler Cestia left his son Thomas in his truck on a hot morning in June two years ago, he has felt, he said, like a cork bobbing in the ocean.
It was June 14, 2021, and Cestia was preparing for a stressful audit at work when he forgot to drop off Thomas at the babysitter on the way to his office in New Iberia, Louisiana.
At lunchtime, he drove to a restaurant with the auditor and then back to his office.
That afternoon, it occurred to him that he didn’t remember seeing the babysitter that morning. He ran to his truck, where he found Thomas in his car seat behind the driver’s seat. Thomas, who was 2 1/2 years old, was pronounced dead at the scene.
“It was just a total utter shock,” said Cestia, 37, who lives in New Iberia with his wife, Pam, and their two other children. “It’s almost like a nightmare that’s not real. I’m living in a makeshift world that’s not real. And once you come down off that, it’s a daily grind.”
Cestia said he has coped with the extreme grief with help from his religious faith and therapy. He has also had the support of his wife.
“People think, ‘Oh, how does somebody do that?’” Pam Cestia said. “You don’t forget your cellphone. You don’t forget this. But he was hyper-focused on something else. He’s not a bad parent. He’s not a bad father.”
The aftermath in other cases has been more dire. Marriages have fallen apart. Caregivers have been prosecuted and faced prison time. In one case last year in Chesterfield, Virginia, a father who realized what he had done immediately went home and killed himself.
And still the deaths come. Just this week in Houston, a 3-month-old died after he was left unattended in a car, the police said. About 40 children a year die from heatstroke in cars, either because they are left in the vehicle or because they become trapped, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
That averages out to a child dying in a hot car every 10 days in the United States. The deaths are more frequent in summer but happen in every month of the year.
Child-safety advocates said new technology could help prevent these recurring tragedies. Vehicles with interior motion sensors, for example, can sound the horn and send alerts to a driver’s phone if they detect a child in the back seat after the car has been turned off.
But automakers and regulators have not made the technology standard equipment in new vehicles, frustrating safety experts. According to Kids and Car Safety, a nonprofit group, 1,050 children have died in hot cars nationwide since 1990, and at least another 7,300 have survived with varying injuries.
“It should really be embarrassing for the automakers and to the government that this has not already been taken care of,” said Janette Fennell, the founder and president of Kids and Car Safety. “When you have the technology to prevent these deaths, and it’s not expensive, what are we waiting for?”
Federal regulators said they were developing rules that would require new vehicles to have lights and chimes to remind drivers to check the back seat after they turn off a car, as required under the $1 trillion infrastructure law that President Joe Biden signed in 2021. But that requirement won’t take effect until 2025.
Major automakers have also pledged that by 2025 all new vehicles will include basic back-seat reminder systems. As of last October, more than 150 models offered the reminders, according to the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, which said in a statement that the industry was making “major progress” toward its goal of universal back-seat reminders.
But higher-tech systems that use radar or ultrasonic sensors to detect a child in the back seat remain relatively rare.
“It’s a matter of cost and demand,” said Emily A. Thomas, the manager of auto safety at Consumer Reports, which holds the position that child-detection systems should be standard in new vehicles. “People don’t know this is what they need, so there’s not a huge demand for it, and unfortunately, the auto industry responds to what’s required. So if it’s not required, they won’t put it in as standard equipment.”
About half of all hot-car deaths lead to criminal charges ranging from child endangerment to murder, according to Kids and Car Safety. Many parents and caregivers take plea deals to avoid jail time and because they are unwilling to face a court battle after the death of a child, the group said.
The psychological underpinnings of the problem have been discussed for years, at least since 2009, when Gene Weingarten of The Washington Post wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning article exploring whether criminal charges are really appropriate for parents who accidentally kill their children by leaving them in cars.
David Diamond, a neuroscientist at the University of South Florida who was quoted in that story, has been patiently explaining the issue ever since, including for a documentary film, “Fatal Distraction,” that was released in 2021.
Diamond said many of the deaths happen when parents drive to work and go into “autopilot mode and lose awareness of the child in the back seat.”
During the drive, the part of the brain that handles habitual behaviors like commuting “outcompetes and suppresses” the conscious memory system, which is responsible for reminding a parent to stop and drop off the child at day care, Diamond said. Stressed and sleep-deprived parents are particularly susceptible to this problem, he said.
“That’s why we need technology — because, frankly, we are so forgetful,” Diamond said in an interview. “I try to emphasize to people that it’s not negligence, it’s not bad parenting, it’s just part of being human.”
The reminder lights and chimes installed in many newer vehicles advise drivers to check the back seat when the car is turned off. Those systems are usually triggered by a rear door being opened before or during a trip, but they cannot actually detect whether a child is in the car.
Ultrasonic sensors, found in some Kia and Hyundai vehicles, can detect a child (or a pet) moving in the back seat after a vehicle has been locked and then blow the horn and send text messages to the driver. But ultrasonic sensors may not detect a child sleeping in a rear-facing car seat, Thomas said.
Radar-based systems can purportedly detect even slight movements like the rise and fall of the chest of a child sleeping in a car seat. At least one vehicle, the Genesis GV70, features that technology.
In March, the Federal Communications Commission approved a specific frequency for short-range radar, which automakers say will make it much easier to deploy child-detecting radar inside cars. Before that, companies had to seek waivers from the FCC.
While radar technology is not widely available, safety advocates said that drivers could remind themselves to check the back seat by putting something important next to the child, like a purse, phone, wallet or even one of their shoes.
The Cestias have their own system. Every morning at 8:05, they text each other to make sure that their 1 1/2-year-old was dropped off at the babysitter.
They have also spoken out strongly in favor of mandatory child-detection technology in cars.
“This is my opportunity to be Thomas’ mom and to advocate for him,” Pam Cestia said. “His story can help save other people’s lives.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Automobile industry; Children & youth; Caregivers; Sensors; Automobile safety; Vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Federal Communications Commission--FCC; NAICS: 926130

Identifier / keyword: Houston (Tex); Sensors; New Iberia (La); Traffic Accidents And Safety; Suicides And Suicide Attempts; Cellular Telephones; Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Heatstroke; Consumer Reports; Kia Motors Corp; University Of South Florida; Hyundai Motor Co; Privacy; Florida; Death And Dying; Child Car Seats; United States; Radar; Automobile Safety Features And Defects; Parenting; Washington Post; Federal Communications Commission; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Genesis Motors; Automobiles; Wireless Communications; Child Abuse And Neglect; Deaths (Fatalities); Alliance For Automotive Innovation; Virginia; Children And Childhood; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Dozens of Children Die Every Year in Hot Cars. Could Technology Save Them?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-10T20:06:54Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848503378

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dozens-children-die-every-year-hot-cars-could/docview/2848503378/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

30,000: [MONEY AND BUSINESS/FINANCIAL DESK]

Author: Solis, Marie

Publication info: Solis, Marie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-000/docview/2843499826/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Out on the road with nowhere to plug in -- that's the greatest fear of many would-be electric vehicle buyers and why they're staying on the sidelines. And that's why a group of automakers is planning to build 30,000 fast charging points in North America.
The joint venture by seven carmakers -- BMW, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz and Stellantis -- would nearly double the number of fast chargers in the United States. Those chargers can replenish a drained battery in 10 to 30 minutes.
While most E.V. owners typically charge their vehicles at home overnight, they need fast charging stations for longer trips. But the chargers can be far-flung in sparsely populated areas.
At the moment, Tesla accounts for more than half the fast chargers in the United States. Last month, Ford Motor and G.M. struck a deal that would allow them to adopt Tesla's charging technology, and separately Tesla has pledged to make more of its chargers available to other car brands. The collaboration announced on Wednesday would give the automakers an option other than Tesla for charging.
Installing so many charging stations will be costly -- $ 1 billion -- and will take until the end of the decade to complete, though some chargers will be in place around the middle of next year.
But major carmakers have already invested billions to produce electric vehicles and want to ensure that the vehicles catch on. Shoring up charging infrastructure may be a necessary to getting car buyers over a major psychological hurdle.
"The better experience people have, the faster E.V. adoption will grow," said Mary T. Barra, the chief executive of G.M.
"We have to be ready to follow the data, and given how far we've come, we can afford to be a little patient as well as resolute as we let this unfold."
Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, on whether the central bank plans to continue raising interest rates after its latest increase on Wednesday.
"People write me off whenever I say I'm an influencer, and I'm like, 'No, I really feel I could be making the difference here."'
Deanna Giulietti, a TikTok creator who said she had turned down promotional work with streaming services in solidarity with the actors' and writers' strikes in Hollywood.
"It's a team effort as far as bringing fresh blood into the public service."
Lee Saunders, the president of AFSCME, a union representing public employees that is helping state and local governments recruit workers.
This article appeared in print on page BU2.

Subject: Automobile industry; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/28/business/the-big-number-30000.html

Title: 30,000:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843499826

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/30-000/docview/2843499826/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Plan to Double Total of Fast Chargers: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/plan-double-total-fast-chargers/docview/2842321376/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The companies will jointly spend at least $ 1 billion to build a North American network in an effort to persuade more people to buy battery-powered cars and trucks.
Seven major automakers announced a plan on Wednesday to nearly double the number of fast chargers in the United States in an effort to address one of the main reasons that people hesitate to buy electric cars.
The carmakers -- BMW Group, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz Group and Stellantis -- will initially invest at least $ 1 billion in a joint venture that will build 30,000 charging ports on major highways and other locations in the United States and Canada.
The United States and Canada have about 36,000 fast chargers -- those that can replenish a drained battery in 30 minutes or less. In some sparsely populated areas, such chargers can be hundreds of miles apart. Surveys show that fear about not being able to find a charger during longer journeys is a major reason that some car buyers are reluctant to buy electric vehicles.
Sales of electric vehicles have risen quickly in the United States, but there are signs that demand is softening. As a result, Tesla, Ford Motor and other carmakers have cut prices in recent months and are offering incentives. Popular models that had long waiting lists last year are now available in a few days or weeks.
Major carmakers are investing billions of dollars to manufacture electric vehicles and batteries and to establish supplier networks. Having staked their futures on the technology, they have a strong incentive to ensure that electric vehicles catch on with car buyers.
The chargers installed by the joint venture will have plugs designed for the connections used by most carmakers other than Tesla, as well as the standard developed by Tesla that Ford, G.M. and other companies have said they intend to switch to in 2025.
"The better experience people have, the faster E.V. adoption will grow," Mary T. Barra, the chief executive of General Motors, said in a statement.
The seven automakers plan to formalize the joint venture and announce its name by the end of the year, Chris Martin, a Honda spokesman, said. The first chargers will begin operating around the middle of 2024, he said, with all 30,000 in place by the end of the decade.
The joint venture is open to adding other partners, he said. Among major automakers, Ford was a notable absence from the announcement on Wednesday. The company said in a statement on Wednesday that it would continue to invest in its own network, which allows Ford owners to charge from a variety of providers with one mobile phone app.
The partnership also does not include Volkswagen. The company is a majority shareholder of Electrify America, one of the largest fast-charging providers.
Tesla accounts for more than half the fast chargers in the United States and has said it will open its networks to other car brands, though, so far, it has made fewer than 100 ports available. Owners of Ford and G.M. vehicles, among others, will be able to connect to 12,000 Tesla fast chargers using an adapter beginning next year. In 2025, Ford and G.M. plan to make models designed to take the Tesla plug without an adapter.
The decision to form the joint venture is an indication that the seven carmakers do not intend to rely solely on Tesla, which dominates sales of electric vehicles, for charging.
The chargers being built by the joint venture will be concentrated in urban areas and along major highways, especially those used most heavily by vacationers and other travelers, the companies said in a statement. Charging stations will be close to restrooms, restaurants and other amenities. The partners said they would try to take advantage of federal and state funds available for charging infrastructure.
Most electric vehicle owners charge at home and rarely need to use public chargers. Home chargers typically replenish batteries overnight. Most public chargers, about 125,000 in the United States and Canada, also operate relatively slowly -- taking four to 10 hours to do the job.
But fast chargers are important for longer trips. Fear of not being able to find one is a major psychological impediment for many would-be electric car buyers. A related problem is that many charging companies have been reluctant to build too many stations in places where few people own electric cars.
The best way to promote electric vehicle ownership, said Shay Natarajan, a partner at Mobility Impact Partners, a private equity firm in New York that focuses on transportation, would be to install chargers in states in the West, Midwest or Southeast where there aren't many, rather than in California or Eastern states that already have extensive charging networks.
Studies have found that in Norway, where almost all new cars sold are battery-powered, sales of electric cars increased steeply when fast chargers became available, Ms. Natarajan said. But the impact diminished as chargers became more commonplace.
"In states where E.V. adoption is the lowest, that is where it would make sense to build chargers," she said. "That is where you are going to have the most impact."
But even California could use more charging stations, said Cathy Zoi, the chief executive of EVgo, a Los Angeles company that builds and operates public charging stations nationwide.
"The most mature market is California, and we're not saturated in California yet," Ms. Zoi said. "Potential buyers of E.V.s are still feeling they need to see more charging stations."
The new joint venture could be a competitor to EVgo, Electrify America and other companies hoping to cash in on the growth of electric vehicles. But the carmakers may also want to tap the expertise of EVgo and others that have experience in finding suitable sites, acquiring permits and connecting to the electric grid.
EVgo has a partnership with G.M. to build fast-charging stations, and Ms. Zoi said the company was open to working with the joint venture.
An Energy Department database that maps the location of chargers highlights the gaping holes in current networks. In Minnesota, for example, fast chargers are sprinkled across the bustling Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul. But in the state's northern city, Duluth, home to nearly 90,000 people, there are just five fast-charging ports, four of which can charge only Tesla cars.
Fast chargers are concentrated in wealthier counties, according to a study by Bumper, an online marketplace for cars. There are also racial disparities. Counties where most residents are Black have, on average, fewer than half as many chargers per capita as white counties, according to Bumper. Native American counties have even fewer.
Photograph A joint venture will install 30,000 fast-charging ports in the U.S. and Canada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABBY JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); A Honda spokesman said the first chargers would begin operating in 2024. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELSEY McCLELLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Automobile industry; Joint ventures; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Electric vehicle charging stations

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Joint ventures Automobile sales

Location: California; United States--US; Canada

Company / organization: Name: EVgo Services LLC; NAICS: 236220, 335312; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/business/energy-environment/electric-vehicles-fast-chargers-automakers.html

Title: Plan to Double Total of Fast Chargers:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 27, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842321376

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/plan-double-total-fast-chargers/docview/2842321376/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

GM and Other Automakers Will Build 30,000 Electric Vehicle Chargers

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gm-other-automakers-will-build-30-000-electric/docview/2842252773/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Seven major automakers announced a plan on Wednesday to nearly double the number of fast chargers in the United States in an effort to address one of the main reasons that people hesitate to buy electric cars.
The carmakers — BMW Group, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz Group and Stellantis — will initially invest at least $1 billion in a joint venture that will build 30,000 charging ports on major highways and other locations in the United States and Canada.
The United States and Canada have about 36,000 fast chargers — those that can replenish a drained battery in 30 minutes or less. In some sparsely populated areas, such chargers can be hundreds of miles apart. Surveys show that fear about not being able to find a charger during longer journeys is a major reason that some car buyers are reluctant to buy electric vehicles.
Sales of electric vehicles have risen quickly in the United States, but there are signs that demand is softening. As a result, Tesla, Ford and other carmakers have cut prices in recent months and are offering incentives. Popular models that had long waiting lists last year are now available in a few days or weeks.
Major carmakers are investing billions of dollars to manufacture electric vehicles and batteries and to establish supplier networks. Having staked their futures on the technology, they have a strong incentive to ensure that electric vehicles catch on with car buyers.
The chargers installed by the joint venture will have plugs designed for the connections used by most carmakers other than Tesla, as well as the standard developed by Tesla that Ford, GM and other companies have said they intend to switch to in 2025.
“The better experience people have, the faster EV adoption will grow,” Mary T. Barra, the CEO of General Motors, said in a statement.
The seven automakers plan to formalize the joint venture and announce its name by the end of the year, said Chris Martin, a Honda spokesperson. The first chargers will begin operating around the middle of 2024, he said, with all 30,000 in place by the end of the decade.
The joint venture is open to adding other partners, he said. Among major automakers, Ford was a notable absence from the announcement on Wednesday. The company said in a statement on Wednesday that it would continue to invest in its own network, which allows Ford owners to charge from a variety of providers with one mobile phone app.
The partnership also does not include Volkswagen. The company is a majority shareholder of Electrify America, one of the largest fast-charging providers.
Tesla accounts for more than half the fast chargers in the United States and has said it will open its networks to other car brands, although, so far, it has only made fewer than 100 ports available. Owners of Ford and GM vehicles, among others, will be able to connect to 12,000 Tesla fast chargers using an adapter beginning next year. In 2025, Ford and GM plan to make models designed to take the Tesla plug without an adapter.
The decision to form the joint venture is an indication that the seven carmakers do not intend to rely solely on Tesla, which dominates sales of electric vehicles, for charging.
The chargers being built by the joint venture will be concentrated in urban areas and along major highways, especially those used most heavily by vacationers and other travelers, the companies said in a joint statement. Charging stations will be close to restrooms, restaurants and other amenities. The partners said they would try to take advantage of federal and state funds available for charging infrastructure.
Most electric vehicle owners charge at home and rarely need to use public chargers. Home chargers typically replenish batteries overnight. Most public chargers, about 125,000 in the United States and Canada, also operate relatively slowly — taking four to 10 hours to do the job.
But fast chargers are important for longer trips. Fear of not being able to find one is a major psychological impediment for many would-be electric car buyers. A related problem is that many charging companies have been reluctant to build too many stations in places where few people own electric cars.
The best way to promote electric vehicle ownership, said Shay Natarajan, a partner at Mobility Impact Partners, a private equity firm in New York that focuses on transportation, would be to install chargers in states in the West, Midwest or Southeast where there aren’t many, rather than in California or Eastern states that already have extensive charging networks.
Studies have found that in Norway, where almost all new cars sold are battery-powered, sales of electric cars increased steeply when fast chargers became available, Natarajan said. But the impact diminished as chargers became more commonplace.
“In states where EV adoption is the lowest, that is where it would make sense to build chargers,” she said. “That is where you are going to have the most impact.”
But even California could use more charging stations, said Cathy Zoi, the CEO of EVgo, a Los Angeles company that builds and operates public charging stations nationwide.
“The most mature market is California, and we’re not saturated in California yet,” Zoi said. “Potential buyers of EV’s are still feeling they need to see more charging stations.”
The new joint venture could be a competitor to EVgo, Electrify America and other companies hoping to cash in on the growth of electric vehicles. But the carmakers may also want to tap the expertise of EVgo and others that have experience in finding suitable sites, acquiring permits and connecting to the electric grid.
EVgo has a partnership with GM to build fast-charging stations, and Zoi said the company was open to working with the joint venture.
An Energy Department database that maps the location of chargers highlights the gaping holes in current networks. In Minnesota, for example, fast chargers are sprinkled across the bustling Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul. But in the state’s northern city Duluth, home to nearly 90,000 people, there are just five fast-charging ports, four of which can charge only Tesla cars.
Fast chargers are concentrated in wealthier counties, according to a study by Bumper, an online marketplace for cars. There are also racial disparities. Counties where most residents are Black have, on average, fewer than half as many chargers per capita as white counties, according to Bumper. Native American counties have even fewer.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Automobile industry; Joint ventures; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Joint ventures Automobile sales

Location: California; New York; United States--US; Canada

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: EVgo Services LLC; NAICS: 236220, 335312; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Honda Motor Co Ltd; Hyundai Motor Co; Canada; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; General Motors; Mercedes Benz; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Stellantis Nv; Kia Motors Corp; Business; Barra, Mary T; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Ford Motor Co

Title: GM and Other Automakers Will Build 30,000 Electric Vehicle Chargers

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 26, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-26T22:06:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842252773

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gm-other-automakers-will-build-30-000-electric/docview/2842252773/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Huge in Mexico. Struggling With Mom.: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Cantú, Elda; Carrasquero, Marian

Publication info: Cantú, Elda; Carrasquero, Marian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/huge-mexico-struggling-with-mom/docview/2840448575/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Fleeing the strictures of modern life in a hypercompetitive South Korea, a young woman found a calmer way of life in Mexico -- and millions of social media followers.
To her mother in South Korea, SuJin Kim is a failure: She's over 30, single and not working for a big Korean corporation.
But to her millions of followers in Latin America, she has become a relatable friend and a teacher of all things Korean. In Mexico, where she lives, they know her, in fact, as "Chinguamiga," her online nickname, a mash-up of the words for friend in Korean and Spanish.
Her success has been propelled not just by her ingenuity and charisma, but also by a wave of South Korean popular culture that has swept the world, driven in part by a government effort to position the country as a cultural giant and to exert a soft power.
In her homeland, Ms. Kim, 32, struggled with the grind of a hypercompetitive society where success is defined narrowly and young women face diminishing labor prospects, grueling work schedules, sexism and restrictive beauty standards.
In Mexico, the growing interest in all things Korean has made her a social-media sensation with more than 24 million followers on TikTok and over eight million subscribers to her YouTube channel, allowing her to gain popularity, financial stability and a romantic partner -- all on her own terms.
"There was a packaging that she came with," said Dr. Renato Balderrama, who leads the Center for Asian Studies at the Autonomous University of Nuevo León in Monterrey, an industrial hub with an expanding Korean presence. "She had all this training in Korea, in this new Korea that allows her to land in a place like Mexico and be successful."
A sort of a teacher of comparative pop culture, Ms. Kim offers lessons on popular Korean soap operas, lyrics, fashion standards, traditions and social norms. She once worked as a waitress in Mexico for a day and posted about her confusion with tips. (South Korea is a no-tip country.) She showed followers how Korean students crammed for exams. She started traveling across Mexico tasting regional delicacies.
Her social media success has attracted invitations to events, award nominations, magazine spreads and sponsorship deals, and yielded a popular business teaching Korean language classes online. She moved from Monterrey to Mexico City to gain more exposure and grow her brand.
Ms. Kim's budding empire now includes an online store of Korean beauty products. She will be featured as a contestant in the second season of HBO's "Bake Off Celebrity" show.
Ms. Kim's success tracks the growth of Korean influence in Mexico and the region.More than 2,000 Korean companies have a presence in Mexico, part of a so-called near-shoring strategy that has driven larger corporations -- Kia, LG, Samsung, Hyundai, among others -- to take advantage of a free-trade agreement with Canada and the United States.
South Korea has not only arrived in Mexico with jobs, cars and cellphones, but also with something more intangible: its own idea of modern culture. K-pop, K-beauty and K-dramas have shown Latin Americans a new, different way to be cool.
K-pop bands have been performing to increasingly bigger and sold-out venues since 2012. This year, a summer festival will bring 16 Korean groups to Mexico City, with ticket prices starting at around $ 170.
Some newsstands specialize in magazines, posters and merchandise about South Korean celebrities. Netflix offers dubbing in "Latin Spanish" for Korean shows. Movie theaters stream live K-pop concerts performed abroad.
Ms. Kim grew up in Seoul but after a work-study stint in Canada and traveling through South America, she returned home and found life in South Korea stifling.
"I don't want to go back to my old life," she remembered thinking.
She moved to Mexico in 2018, driven by a desire to experience life in Latin America and trying to escape severe burnout. She worked for a Korean multinational corporation and found the work rhythm all too familiar so she started teaching Korean.
Then the pandemic upended the world.
"It's my moment, I have nothing to do," she recalled thinking before she started to post her Korean classes on YouTube. "I had zero views, nobody saw me."
Her videos were straightforward language lessons "Easy Words in Korean -- 3 Minutes!" But then she pivoted to TikTok and uploaded a short clip, this time explaining Korean culture.
"That same day it had like 5,000 views and I was like, what?!" she said, her pointy nails adorned with jeweled stars, bows and moons.
Very quickly, her TikTok following exploded.
One afternoon this year, Ms. Kim welcomed her students to a virtual Korean class on Zoom; she charges $ 35 to $ 45 for each four-week session, with one 90-minute class per week.
When the class started, 76 students had logged on. There were young girls and bespectacled moms and at least one longhaired businessman, spread across Central and South America.
Ms. Kim's bright blue curls bounced on the screen as she moved her head approvingly.
When a student trying to figure out how to pluralize singular nouns asked, "No plural?" she chirped: "No! How neat, right?"
After finishing college in South Korea, Ms. Kim said she experienced severe stress. "I wanted to die and I wished to rest," she said in one of her most popular videos. She has spoken openly about being hospitalized to take care of her mental health.
She attributes her exhaustion to Korea's culture of sacrifice and grind that helped the country become an economic powerhouse after the Korean War.
"Everything is quick, quick, now, right this second," Dr. Balderrama said. "This created a culture where there's no place for mediocrity, there's no place for those unwilling to compete."
In Mexico, Ms. Kim hoped to find a more joyous life: "I saw how Latin culture is, how Latin people live and they're living happily," she said. "I don't want to waste a single moment I'm in Latin America because it's so precious to me."
But if Ms. Kim has found a passion and a business, she has not completely found the peace of mind she was seeking. She's in therapy to deal with what she described as some depression and anxiety.
Her large following and popularity has bred fear: "I feel people will forget me, that nobody will like me," she said, worried about the toll of having to come up with creative content to remain relevant.
"I also have this problem with haters, with people's comments, which affect me," she added.
She does get criticized online by users who say she should go back to Korea, who ask whether she pays taxes in Mexico (she says she does) and who consider her another foreigner lured by life on the cheap and who contribute to the gentrification of parts of the country at the expense of Mexican residents.
In a recent video,as she prepared to go home for a visit she showed an ID card that she said was proof of her status as a legal resident. She wanted to dispel any rumors she had to leave the country because she was on a tourist visa.
Ms. Kim declined to discuss her citizenship status with The New York Times, but months ago she posted a video in which she said she'd taken the exam to become a citizen of Mexico.
By many standards, Ms. Kim has made it. But what about her mother's standards?
"I don't think she'll change her mind about success -- that I'm not a success, that's a fact for her," she said following her visit home. "She's still more worried than happy for me."
Still, after meeting Ms. Kim's boyfriend and his family in South Korea, her parents promised to visit her in Mexico.
Photograph Top, gifts form Ms. Kim's followers; middle, dancing with friends; above, a quieter moment. The social media sensation says her South Korean mother remains skeptical about her success, as she's over 30, single and not employed by a Korean corporation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIAN CARRASQUERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A4.

ERIC Subject: Peer Acceptance; Success; Nouns; Mothers; Korean; Social Media; Korean Culture

Subject: Teaching; Success; K-pop music; Celebrities; Popularity; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: South America; Mexico; Canada; Latin America; South Korea

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/21/world/americas/sujin-kim-chinguamiga-mexico-korea.html

Title: Huge in Mexico. Struggling With Mom.:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

column: The Saturday Profile

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840448575

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/huge-mexico-struggling-with-mom/docview/2840448575/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Survey of U.S. Cities Shows Nearly 10% Drop in Homicides: [National Desk]

Author: Arango, Tim

Publication info: Arango, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/survey-u-s-cities-shows-nearly-10-drop-homicides/docview/2840134388/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After a surge during the height of Covid, killings have fallen but remain well above prepandemic levels.
In 2020, amid the disruptions of the pandemic and the social upheaval following the police murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, the United States saw the largest increase in its homicide rate in modern history. Now, more than three years after the start of the pandemic, the country is on track to record one of its largest -- if not the largest -- annual declines in homicides, according to a report released on Thursday.
Even so, violent crime is still considerably higher than just before the pandemic, the benchmark that police chiefs and city leaders are striving to return to, as cities remain awash in guns.
In the new report, the nonpartisan Council on Criminal Justice examined crime data from 30 U.S. cities -- including Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia and Denver -- and found that through the first half of the year there were 202 fewer homicides, a drop of more than 9 percent. Still, homicides across those cities are 24 percent higher than in same period of 2019.
"I would call the result heartening," said Richard Rosenfeld, a professor of criminology and criminal justice at the University of Missouri-St. Louis who was the lead author of the report. "Not a cause for celebration. Most cities have not returned to the homicide levels that were prevailing just prior to the height of the pandemic. So we have a ways to go."
The latest data at least offers a hopeful sign that the increases in violent crime during the pandemic were not the start of a new era of steadily rising crime, as many experts have worried. But the data is limited to the cities in which the council could obtain data, and the authors cautioned that for some categories only a few cities released statistics.
Gun assaults, for instance, declined 5.6 percent -- a positive sign for gun violence overall -- but that was based on only the 10 cities in the study that provided gun assault data. Robberies, burglaries and larcenies were also down. Car thefts, which have risen substantially in recent years, partially because of the ease in which teenagers have been able to steal Kia and Hyundai models, rose even further.
The council began tracking crime at the start of the pandemic, seeking to provide a timely snapshot of national trends and fill the void in comprehensive data from government agencies. The F.B.I., which typically releases national statistics in the fall for the prior year, has been hampered by a shift in 2021 to a new reporting system that saw several large cities, such as Chicago and New York, fail to submit data.
Just as criminologists struggle to reach a consensus to explain sudden increases in crime like the United States saw in 2020, concrete explanations for declines in crime are similarly elusive.
"It's like explaining the score at halftime," said Jeff Asher, a crime analyst based in New Orleans who tracks homicides across American cities and levels of law enforcement staffing. "Even if you are up by two touchdowns, it's still halftime. And so understanding that context makes it hard to say, 'Oh it's because it's x, y or z.' We don't have a strong understanding yet. And it'll be a little while until we do have an understanding."
But many agree that the disruptions of the pandemic -- the social isolation, the closure of schools and jobs lost -- likely led to an increase in crime. More contentious is an unproven theory cited by some experts that amid the social unrest that followed the murder of Mr. Floyd, officers in some places pulled back from enforcement and some citizens, distrustful of law enforcement, stopped working with police.
Notably, violent crime has fallen at a time when many police departments are smaller than they were before the pandemic. While the defund the police movement, which grew out of the Floyd protests, lost momentum as crime rose, police staffing levels declined in many cities as officers retired or quit and as many departments struggled to recruit new officers in a competitive U.S. job market. The result for some major cities has been an unintended experiment in what a smaller police department looks like.
Los Angeles, for example, is down about 1,000 officers since 2019 -- it had about 9,200 officers at the end of last year -- and hundreds of civilian workers. And yet homicides are down more than 20 percent this year, and overall gun violence has fallen at a similar clip.
"We are still not done with getting back to crime levels, community safety levels, that we saw just four years ago," Chief Michel Moore of the Los Angeles Police Department said in an interview. He added: "We're not home free because of the persistence of gun violence, and the persistence of too many guns in too many hands."
With fewer officers, Mr. Moore said the department was relying on overtime and on focusing resources on the most serious violent and property crimes. He said that the department was not responding as quickly as it used to for lesser issues, like neighborhood disputes or loud, late-night parties. The department's goal is to hire 700 more officers and 300 more civilians this year.
"The service levels have been impacted," he said, adding that the change has come at the expense of community members who typically interact with the police only on that type of lower level issue. That "gives me concern because it undermines their sense of confidence and their sense of safety in the department, and in government," he said.
A similar dynamic of smaller departments and falling crime has also played out in Philadelphia, which had about 5,800 officers at the end of last year, more than 700 fewer than in 2019. The city saw homicides decline more than 20 percent and has spent millions of dollars in overtime.
In Minneapolis, whose homicide data is not included in the council's report, violent crime is also down substantially, and the department has about 300 fewer officers than in 2019. To maintain the reductions in crime, the department has said it would focus its limited resources this summer on crime hot spots in the city.
Even with the increases in recent years, violent crime is still far below its historical peaks reached in the early 1990s. In periods of the last century when murders and violent crime surged, policymakers responded with ever harsher criminal justice policies: mandatory minimum sentences for drug crimes, tough new laws for juvenile offenders and massive increases in policing, all of which led to mass incarceration.
And as crime rose in recent years, some mayors and governors did respond with tough-on-crime rhetoric. But, at least so far, there have not been major policy shifts toward more punitive measures like during the 1980s and 1990s, said Jeffrey A. Fagan, an expert on crime and policing at Columbia Law School. Efforts to overhaul bail systems are continuing and progressive prosecutors are being elected in many cities, which, he said, "showed that you really didn't need these harsh measures that were put in place to have violence rates and murder rates decline."
Photograph Homicides in Albuquerque have decreased by 24 percent in the first half of 2023, compared with the first half of last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANCEY BUSH/THE ALBUQUERQUE JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Workforce planning; Criminal statistics; Councils; Law enforcement; Assaults; Pandemics; Police reform; Gun violence; Robbery; Departments; Murders & murder attempts; Violent crime; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Los Angeles California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/20/us/crime-data-homicides.html

Title: Survey of U.S. Cities Shows Nearly 10% Drop in Homicides:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840134388

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/survey-u-s-cities-shows-nearly-10-drop-homicides/docview/2840134388/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New Zealand Is Embracing Maori Names: [Sports Desk]

Author: Frost, Natasha

Publication info: Frost, Natasha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-zealand-is-embracing-maori-names/docview/2838145762/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A concerted effort to say Indigenous names correctly, and tell the stories behind them, will show up in stadiums in New Zealand and Australia.
When soccer fans land in New Zealand this month ahead of the Women's World Cup, they may find themselves welcomed not to Auckland or Wellington, but to "Tāmaki Makaurau" ("Tah-mah-key Ma-kow-row") or "Te Whanganui-a-Tara" ("Tay Fung-a-noo-ee a Tah-rah").
Those names -- what the cities are called in the country's Indigenous language, te reo Māori -- are reflected in the official documents for this year's Women's World Cup, which has placed Indigenous languages and imagery unapologetically at the forefront.
Every city that will host a match is listed with its English and Indigenous names, and FIFA announced this month that it would fly First Nations and Māori flags in every stadium. The effort came after soccer and government officials in the host nations pushed for a more inclusive approach, and it "will mean so much to so many," the head of Australia's soccer federation said.
In New Zealand, the decision reflects an ongoing conversation about the nation's identity. For decades, many New Zealanders routinely mangled and mispronounced the Māori names of the country's cities and towns. Taupō ("Toe-paw") was pronounced "Towel-po." Ōtāhuhu (Oh-tah-hu-hu) was "Oter-hu." And Paraparaumu ("para-para-oo-moo") was sometimes simply referred to as "Pram."
More recently lawmakers, broadcasters and much of the general public have cast out those mispronunciations as part of a concerted national effort to say the names correctly. At the same time, many are choosing to use their cities' original Māori names over their English alternatives. Last year, a formal petition to rename the country altogether and restore all Māori names was signed by more than 70,000 people.
"Before, it felt like a choice to say the names right," said Julia de Bres, a linguist at Massey University in New Zealand. "And now it feels like a choice not to."
Visitors should absolutely use those names, as well as the common greeting "kia ora" ("key ow-rah"), said Hemi Dale, the director of Māori medium education at the University of Auckland.
"Once you grasp the vowels, you can get your tongue around most of the words -- long sounds, short sounds, the macron," the horizontal line above a vowel that indicates a stressed syllable, he said.
(A note: New Zealanders overseas -- of any descent -- will often permit themselves an internal wince at how foreigners say the word "Māori." The correct pronunciation is closest to "Mao-ree," and never "May-or-i." The plural is simply "Māori," without an "s," which does not appear in the language.)
The championing of Māori place names is visible throughout New Zealand life: Increasingly, New Zealanders call their homeland Aotearoa, the Māori name that is often translated as "land of the long white cloud" and that has been used by Māori to refer to the country for decades, if not centuries. Māori and English names are used by the country's weather forecasting service, on newly released official maps and on signs on the nation's roads.
The changes are an effect of a decades-long movement to revitalize a language that risked being extinguished by colonialism, said Rawinia Higgins, the country's Māori language commissioner.
As English-speaking settlers became the dominant population, Māori and their language were sidelined and suppressed. As late as the 1980s, Māori children were beaten at school for speaking the language, and many adults chose not to pass it on to their families.
Starting in the 1970s, the Māori language revival movement has led to te reo's being adopted as one of the country's two official languages, alongside sign language, and the establishment of nearly 500 early childhood schools in which Māori is spoken exclusively.
Many non-Māori New Zealanders have embraced the change, and there are long wait lists for Māori language courses. The government aims to have one million New Zealanders -- roughly one-fifth of the population -- speaking basic Māori by 2040.
But for a small but vocal minority, a bicultural society is viewed as divisive rather than inclusive.
Last year, after the chocolatier Whittakers temporarily changed the packaging on its milk chocolate bars to read Miraka Kirīmi (Creamy Milk), some in New Zealand called for a boycott of the brand. The question of bilingual road signs has taken on outsize importance ahead of this year's general election, where questions of racial politics have become a feature of the center-right's rhetoric.
Place names, as some of the more visible examples of the shift, have become caught in the fray. Lost in that debate is the reality that the country's colonial names often had little to do with the places they related to.
Christchurch, for instance, was named to recall a college at the University of Oxford, while the name Auckland was bestowed as a thank you to George Eden, the Earl of Auckland. Eden was the boss of a former governor of New Zealand, William Hobson, who chose the name. Eden never set foot in the city.
By contrast, Māori place names reflect location-specific information, including important stories or where food might be found, said Hana Skerett-White, a Māori teacher, advocate and translator who has worked with artists such as the singer Lorde.
"The Māori names tell us stories," she said. "They speak of our history, of important events, and they actually act as pockets of knowledge, which is how we transmit information from generation to generation.
"When those names are taken away, so too are our knowledge systems disrupted in the process."
English translations for Tāmaki Makaurau, as Auckland is known in Māori, vary. One version indicates that the city, with its palm-fringed harbors and volcanoes, is a place desired by many. Another tells the story of Tāmaki, a beautiful princess, and her many admirers.
From a Māori perspective, each understanding is equally valid, and individual tribes, or iwi, may approach it differently, said Pāora Puru, a Māori language advocate and a co-founder of the Māori social enterprise Te Manu Taupua.
"People have their own interpretations, their own meaning," he said. "I liken it to an invisible umbilical cord that connects you to that place, and to your ancestors' traditional connection, association, occupation or use of that particular area."
Photograph First Nations flags will fly at all Women's World Cup stadiums. (PHOTOGRAPH BY XAVIER LA CANNA/AAP IMAGE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); A New Year's celebration in Auckland, which is known as Tamaki Makaurau in the Indigenous te reo Maori language. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE ROWLAND/GETTY IMAGES FOR AUCKLAND UNLIMITED); Kayakers on Lake Taupo. For decades, many New Zealanders incorrectly pronounced the lake's name as "Towel-po." (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE HUTCHINGS/REUTERS); The Otahuhu main street in South Auckland in 2021. That te reo Maori name has been mispronounced as "Oter-hu." (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL WALTER/GETTY IMAGES); Tiger Woods played at Paraparaumu Beach Golf Club in 2002. Some had referred to Paraparaumu merely as "Pram." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN TREML/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) This article appeared in print on page D10.

Subject: Names; Tournaments & championships; Language; Women; Colonialism; Soccer; Cities

Location: New Zealand; Australia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/16/sports/soccer/world-cup-maori-names.html

Title: New Zealand Is Embracing Maori Names:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 17, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodica ls--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2838145762

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-zealand-is-embracing-maori-names/docview/2838145762/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

19%: [MONEY AND BUSINESS/FINANCIAL DESK]

Author: Solis, Marie

Publication info: Solis, Marie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/19/docview/2834561776/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It was a sign that the auto industry was overcoming its biggest challenges in recent years. General Motors, the largest U.S. automaker, reported on Wednesday that it had its best quarter for new-car sales in more than two years.
G.M. said it had sold 691,978 vehicles from April through June -- a 19 percent jump from a year earlier.
Like other automakers, G.M. faced shortages of computer chips and other parts in the pandemic, which sent up the cost of vehicles, forced factories to shut down and left car dealers with sparse lots. Sales fell in part because there were fewer cars to sell.
And though demand remained high -- higher than automakers could keep up with, in many cases -- some customers deferred new-car purchases or opted for used cars because of the second obstacle automakers encountered. As the Federal Reserve raised interest rates to tame inflation, auto loans became more expensive and put new cars out of reach for some.
But now, automakers -- Honda, Kia and Ford among them -- are having an easier time restocking dealer lots as the chip shortage has eased. And strong jobs reports and rising wages have left consumers in a better position to buy cars.
The industry isn't out of the woods yet -- central bankers expect two more rate increases by the end of the year and plan to keep rates high until they wrestle down inflation.
But Jonathan Smoke, the chief economist at the research firm Cox Automotive, called the quarterly sales figures "the beginning of returning to normal." "Everyone knows the music is about to stop."
Nela Richardson, ADP's chief economist, on the apparent end of the "great resignation" by workers.
"I think there should be a public conversations app with 1 billion+ people on it. Twitter has had the opportunity to do this but hasn't nailed it. Hopefully we will."
Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Meta, in his first post on the company's new platform, Threads, which is intended to compete with Twitter.
"We take care of the tourists, but no one takes care of us."
Diana Rios-Sanchez, a housekeeping supervisor at the InterContinental Los Angeles Downtown who was among the thousands of hotel workers who went on strike in Southern California.
This article appeared in print on page BU2.

Subject: Automobile industry; Interest rates; Automobile sales; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Interest rates Automobile sales Automobile dealers

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/07/business/the-big-number-19.html

Title: 19%:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 9, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2834561776

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/19/docview/2834561776/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York City Shootings Are Down Compared With 2022's Tally: [National Desk]

Author: Meko, Hurubie

Publication info: Meko, Hurubie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-city-shootings-are-down-compared-with/docview/2833856742/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Murders and rapes were also down, part of a nationwide trend after a post-pandemic spike.
Shootings in New York City dropped by about 25 percent through the first half of this year compared with the same period last year, extending a downward trend after a spike in violent crime during the pandemic.
The sharp drop, which mirrored similar decreases across the United States, came amid widespread fears about crime in the city, which officials have blamed for keeping workers and suburbanites cloistered in their homes.
At a briefing on Thursday, Edward Caban, the acting police commissioner, said that shootings had declined for 13 consecutive weeks. The numbers were released at the beginning of summer, when violence historically rises, but he said he was "confident" that the department's positive streak would continue in the summer.
"It is no coincidence," Mr. Caban said. "From the beginning of this administration, we made the fight against gun violence our top priority."
Through Sunday, reports of five of the seven offenses that the Police Department ranks as major felonies had gone down, while two increased, police data show. Murders, rapes and burglaries decreased by about 10 percent each; robberies fell nearly 5 percent. But car thefts increased 18 percent and felony assaults by 6 percent.
Michael Lipetri, chief of crime control strategies, tied the increase in car thefts to the ease of stealing certain models of cars. "You could basically steal a Hyundai or a Kia in seconds," he said on Thursday.
Transit crimes, which have overall fallen by nearly 4 percent this year, increased by about 19 percent over the past month compared to the same period last year, according to Police Department data. Officials did not shed light on the spike at the news conference.
Crime data is a "roller coaster," said Jeffrey A. Fagan, a professor at Columbia Law School. Causality, he said, is "almost impossible to prove," though police departments often take credit.
"Crime goes up, crime goes down, people are alarmed and the police department changes its tactics," he said. "Whatever changes they've made, they don't seem able to interrupt this cycle."
"What they're observing in New York is happening all over the country," Mr. Fagan said.
At the beginning of last year, as the pandemic eased and people began returning to their routines, the city struggled to stem an increase in violence.
Mayor Eric Adams, whose tenure began in 2022, made reversing the trend, specifically reining in gun violence, a central goal. Mr. Adams appointed a "gun violence czar." He also expanded a jobs program and Saturday Night Lights, which offers activities for children between the ages of 11 and 18.
But the crime-fighting approaches of Mr. Adams and the Police Department have also been met with criticism.
Last year, the department announced an initiative designed to enforce what they called quality-of-life crimes, focusing on things like public drinking, urination and disorderly groups. Critics said that the enforcement is a return to "broken windows" policing, the enforcement of low-level offenses in an effort to prevent more serious crimes, which they said results in harassment.
In June, a court-appointed monitor found that anti-crime units, then under the leadership of the former commissioner, Keechant Sewell, were still stopping, frisking and searching too many people, despite assurances from Mr. Adams that new policies and training would prevent the problem. A report from The City this week found that there had been a 600 percent increase in police vehicle pursuits in the year's first three months.
For David Caba, vice president at Bronx Rises Against Gun Violence, the drop in gun violence that the department emphasized on Thursday reflects the work of social service organizations such as his.
Since the pandemic disruptions have ebbed, his teams, which operate in six zones within the Bronx, have seen shootings and homicides fall, he said. The zones are each made up of about 12 to 15 blocks that have grappled with high rates of violence. One zone has gone over a year without a single shooting or murder, he said.
"It takes everyone," he said, adding: "It ain't just one entity that's going to come in and provide a remedy."
Photograph The acting police commissioner, Edward Caban, said that the decrease in shootings in New York City was "no coincidence." (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Automobile theft; Police departments; Shootings; Gun violence; Crime prevention; Robbery; Murders & murder attempts; Pandemics

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/nyregion/shootings-nyc-crime.html

Title: New York City Shootings Are Down Compared With 2022's Tally:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833856742

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-city-shootings-are-down-compared-with/docview/2833856742/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2833856740/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: AUTOMOBILES
Ford's U.S. Sales Rose 10% in Second Quarter
Ford Motor said Thursday that its new-vehicle sales rose 10 percent in the three months of April through June, thanks to robust demand for trucks. The automaker sold 531,662 motor vehicles, up from 483,688 in the second quarter last year, as sales of pickups, delivery vans and heavy trucks increased 26 percent. The gain in truck sales more than offset a decline of nearly 3 percent in sales of electric vehicles. Ford sold 14,843 battery-powered cars and trucks in the quarter, down from 15,273 a year earlier. It has had to slow production to upgrade assembly lines. The upgrade work mainly affected the Mustang Mach-E, whose sales declined 21 percent in the second quarter. Ford also sold 4,466 F-150 Lightning electric pickup trucks in the quarter. That was more than double the total from a year earlier and the second-highest quarterly total since the truck went on sale. On Wednesday, General Motors, Honda, Nissan, Hyundai and Kia reported increases of 14 percent or more. Overall, automakers sold more than 4.1 million cars and trucks in the second quarter, according to Cox Automotive, a market research firm, an increase of 16 percent from a year earlier. The total, however, was about 400,000 fewer cars than the industry typically sold in the second quarter before the coronavirus pandemic. Sales remain below their prepandemic levels because parts shortages have forced automakers to produce fewer vehicles for much of the last three years. The supply of computer chips, which have been particularly hard to get, has improved in recent months. NEAL E. BOUDETTE
INTERNATIONAL
Amazon's iRobot Deal Is in E.U.'s Cross Hairs
Amazon's $ 1.7 billion acquisition of iRobot may reduce competition and strengthen Amazon's position as an online marketplace provider, European Union antitrust regulators warned on Thursday. The European Commission opened a full-scale investigation and will decide by Nov. 15 whether to clear or block the deal for iRobot, the robot vacuum cleaner maker. "We continue to work through the process with the European Commission and are focused on addressing its questions and any identified concerns at this stage," an Amazon spokesperson said. Antitrust enforcers around the world have increased scrutiny of Big Tech acquiring smaller rivals, concerned about the accumulation of data by a few companies, and big players leveraging their dominance into new markets. The acquisition announced last August that it would add iRobot's Roomba robot vacuum to Amazon's portfolio of smart devices, which include the Alexa voice assistant, smart thermostats, security devices and wall-mounted smart displays. IRobot made its first Roomba robot vacuum in 2002. Amazon has previously said the vacuum cleaner market is very competitive, with lots of Chinese players. "The commission is concerned that the transaction would allow Amazon to restrict competition in the market for robot vacuum cleaners and to strengthen its position as online marketplace provider," an E.U. executive said. The Amazon spokesperson also said the company could "offer a company like iRobot the resources to accelerate innovation and invest in critical features while lowering prices for consumers." REUTERS
CATEGORY
Hedlyne Goes For Maximum of Two Lines
text text
Credit: By Neal E. Boudette and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY AP PHOTO/CHARLES KRUPA) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Robots; Antitrust; Automobile industry; Automobile sales; Trucks

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Automobile industry Automobile sales

Company / organization: Name: European Commission; NAICS: 928120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/business/07bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 7, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833856740

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2833856740/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New-Car Sales Take Off As Chip Shortage Eases: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-car-sales-take-off-as-chip-shortage-eases/docview/2833500410/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: General Motors, Toyota and other automakers sold more trucks and sport utility vehicles as supply chain problems eased and demand remained strong despite rising interest rates.
Some of the country's biggest automakers reported big sales increases for the second quarter on Wednesday, the strongest sign yet that the auto industry was bouncing back from parts shortages and overcoming the effects of higher interest rates.
General Motors, the largest U.S. automaker, said it sold 691,978 vehicles from April to June, up 19 percent from a year earlier. It was the company's highest quarterly total in more than two years.
Automakers have struggled in the last two years with a shortage of computer chips that forced factory shutdowns and left dealers with few vehicles to sell. More recently, rising interest rates have made auto loans more expensive, causing some consumers to defer purchases or opt for used vehicles.
"I'm not saying we are on the cusp of exciting growth here," said Jonathan Smoke, chief economist at Cox Automotive, a research firm. "But we are now at a turning point where the auto market returns to more balance. It's the beginning of returning to normal."
The easing of chip shortages has allowed automakers to restock dealer lots, making it easier for car buyers to find the models and features they want, Mr. Smoke said. At the end of June, dealers had about 1.8 million vehicles in stock, nearly 800,000 more than at the same point in 2022, according to Cox data.
Sales have also been helped by strong job creation and rising wages, Mr. Smoke said.
At the same time, however, higher interest rates and higher car prices have put new-car purchases out of reach of many consumers. In the first half of the year, the average price paid for a new vehicle was a near-record $ 48,564. The average interest rate paid on car loans in the first six months of 2023 was 7.09 percent, up from 4.86 percent a year earlier, according to Cox. The average monthly payment in the first half was $ 784, up from $ 691.
"Demand will be limited by the level of prices and rates, which are not likely to come down enough to stimulate more demand than the market can bear," Mr. Smoke said.
Cox estimated that total sales of new cars and trucks rose 11.6 percent in the first half of the year, to 7.65 million. The firm now expects full-year sales to top 15 million, which would be a rise of 8 percent.
Several automakers reported solid quarterly sales on Wednesday. Toyota said its U.S. sales rose 7 percent, to 568,962 cars and light trucks. Stellantis, the company that owns Jeep, Ram, Chrysler and other brands, reported a 6 percent rise, to 434,648 vehicles.
Honda, which had been severely hampered by chip shortages, said its sales rose 45 percent to 347,025 cars and trucks. Hyundai and Kia, the South Korean automakers, each sold more than 210,000 vehicles, posting gains of 14 percent and 15 percent.
Electric vehicles remain the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry. Rivian, a maker of electric pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, said on Monday that it delivered 12,640 in the second quarter, a 59 percent jump from a year earlier. And on Sunday, Tesla reported an 83 percent jump in global sales in the second quarter.
Cox estimated that more than 500,000 electric vehicles were sold in the United States in the first six months of the year, and that more than one million would be sold in 2023, setting a record for battery-powered cars and trucks in the country.
Tesla, which does not break out its sales by country, remains the largest seller of E.V.s in the U.S. market. Cox estimated that the company sold more than 161,000 electric cars in the second quarter in the United States. Ford Motor, which offers three fully electric models., reports its quarterly sales on Thursday.
G.M. sold more 15,300 battery-powered cars and trucks, but nearly 14,000 were the Chevrolet Bolt, a smaller vehicle that the company will stop making at the end of the year. The company also sold 1,348 Cadillac Lyriq electric S.U.V.s and 47 GMC Hummer pickup trucks. Chevrolet will soon start delivering a new electric Silverado pickup truck, which uses the same battery technology as the Lyriq and Hummer.
Photograph Uncrating a Chevrolet Bolt battery at a General Motors plant in Michigan. The company said it sold more than 15,300 E.V.s in the second quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Shortages; Interest rates; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Trucks; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Shortages Interest rates Automobile sales Automobile dealers

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/05/business/general-motors-auto-sales.html

Title: New-Car Sales Take Off As Chip Shortage Eases:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833500410

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-car-sales-take-off-as-chip-shortage-eases/docview/2833500410/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Billy Joel's Madison Square Garden Run to End in 2024: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Sisario, Ben

Publication info: Sisario, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-joels-madison-square-garden-run-end-2024/docview/2821526078/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The singer-songwriter, one of New York's most beloved musicians, will conclude his monthly gig at the Manhattan arena after his 150th career concert there.
In December 1978, Billy Joel headlined Madison Square Garden for the first time, playing three shows on the tour for his first No. 1 album, "52nd Street." Dozens more performances followed there over the years, and in January 2014, Joel began a monthly residency as the Garden's first "music franchise."
Now the monthly gig is coming to an end. On Thursday, Joel and the Garden announced his final 10 shows in the series, saying the residency will conclude in July 2024 with his 104th show in the series, which will be his 150th lifetime performance at the Garden.
"I'm kind of flabbergasted that it lasted as long as it did," Joel said at a news conference at the Garden. "My team tells me that we could continue to sell tickets, but 10 years, 150 shows -- all right already!" James L. Dolan, the chief executive of MSG Entertainment, which owns the Garden and other venues, added: "Billy Joel's franchise run has made history -- not only for Madison Square Garden, but also for the music industry overall."
Joel's run at MSG has been a cultural phenomenon and a business unto itself. Every show has sold out, and aside from a dozen or two standards -- you are all but guaranteed to hear "Piano Man," "Allentown," "New York State of Mind" and "It's Still Rock and Roll to Me" -- the set list varies enough to keep fans coming back again and again. The roster of special guests has included Bruce Springsteen, Tony Bennett, Olivia Rodrigo and Joel's daughter Alexa Ray Joel.
The residency has continued on a roughly monthly schedule since its inception, aside from an 18-month break during the Covid-19 pandemic, returning in November 2021.
According to the trade publication Pollstar, Joel's residency has played to nearly 1.7 million people through its 89th performance in April, and sold $ 207 million in tickets. By his final show, the residency will have grossed over $ 250 million.
The idea for the residency came about following Celine Dion's two record-breaking runs in Las Vegas, which started in 2003 and ultimately sold about $ 660 million in tickets. But Joel balked at traveling there. "I knew I didn't want to be a resident in a place like Vegas," he once said. "I don't even like Vegas."
Joel's performances at the Garden have become "the Super Bowl of music events," Dennis Arfa, his longtime booking agent, told The New York Times last year. It has also inspired a new residency model that has lately taken hold in the music business, with some superstar artists preferring longer stays at a smaller number of venues, rather than crisscrossing the map one gig at a time -- a move that can reduce touring costs and provide a bit of branding buzz. Last year, for example, Harry Styles played 15 dates at the Garden and, in late 2022 and 2023, another 15 at the Kia Forum in Inglewood, Calif.
Joel, 74, will begin his 10 countdown shows on Oct. 20. A representative for the singer said that while he is ending this run, Joel is not retiring.
"There's only one thing that's more New York than Billy Joel," Mayor Eric Adams of New York said in a statement, "and that's a Billy Joel concert at MSG."
This article appeared in print on page C13.

Subject: Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Madison Square Garden Co; NAICS: 711310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/01/arts/music/billy-joel-ending-msg-residency.html

Title: Billy Joel's Madison Square Garden Run to End in 2024:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 2, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821526078

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billy-joels-madison-square-garden-run-end-2024/docview/2821526078/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hyundai Plans Georgia Plant Along With LG: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Penn, Ivan

Publication info: Penn, Ivan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hyundai-plans-georgia-plant-along-with-lg/docview/2819561559/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The facility is the second battery project under development in the state by Hyundai Motor Group and may bring 3,000 jobs.
Hyundai Motor Group and LG Energy Solutions announced plans on Thursday to build a $ 4.3 billion electric vehicle battery plant in Georgia, the latest clean energy facility to come to the state.
The project is expected to bring 3,000 new jobs to southeast Georgia by the end of 2025. It is the second battery manufacturing plant that Hyundai is developing in the state, which has used incentives in the Inflation Reduction Act to open new facilities. Hyundai announced in December that it had teamed up with SK On, a South Korean electric vehicle battery developer, to build a plant in Bartow County.
"Hyundai Motor Group is focusing on its electrification efforts to secure a leadership position in the global auto industry," Jaehoon Chang, president and chief executive of Hyundai Motor Company, said in a statement.
The facility is planned for Bryan County, Ga., near the Hyundai Motor Group Metaplant America, which is under construction, the company said. The Metaplant facility will produce Hyundai, Genesis and Kia electric vehicles.
Senator Jon Ossoff, a Georgia Democrat, said in an interview that incentives for clean energy manufacturing in the Inflation Reduction Act made the plant possible.
"This is yet another huge win for Georgia," he said.
In April, Mr. Ossoff led a trade mission to South Korea, where he met with senior executives from both companies.
The announcement followed a decision in January by Hanwha QCells to tap the federal climate and tax measure to expand its operations with a $ 2.5 billion Georgia facility that will produce solar panels and their components.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Clean technology; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US

Location: United States--US; Georgia

Company / organization: Name: Hyundai Motor Co Ltd; NAICS: 336110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/26/business/hyundai -lg-georgia-battery-plant.html

Title: Hyundai Plans Georgia Plant Along With LG:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 27, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: New s

ProQuest document ID: 2819561559

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hyundai-plans-georgia-plant-along-with-lg/docview/2819561559/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Credits and Debits of E.V. Shopping: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lawrence, Ulrich

Publication info: Lawrence, Ulrich. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits-debits-e-v-shopping/docview/2804841923/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Buying an electric car has become much more complicated because of restrictions on which models qualify for a federal tax credit of up to $ 7,500.
Designed to accelerate the shift to electric cars among other climate goals, the Inflation Reduction Act has in practice made buying such vehicles a lot more complicated.
In August, the law ruled out the full tax credit of $ 7,500 for electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids assembled outside North America. That may make it harder for consumers to take the financial or psychological leap to buy a battery-powered car.
The Treasury Department further tightened those rules this week by requiring that a certain percentage of the components and minerals in car batteries are sourced from the United States or in countries that are its trade allies -- numbers that will increase over time.
Just 11 electric cars from four automakers -- Tesla, General Motors, Ford Motor and Volkswagen -- now qualify for the full tax credit; several others can qualify for a partial $ 3,750 credit. The list is expected to grow as more automakers reconfigure their supply chains.
The rules are already driving big changes in the buying and selling of electric cars. Some automakers whose models are no longer eligible are now pushing leased electric cars. That's because the law allows leased vehicles to qualify as commercial vehicles, which the Inflation Reduction Act exempts from the restrictions that apply to cars bought by individuals.
For many car buyers, the availability of the tax credit is critical. Electric vehicle prices have fallen in recent months, but they still cost $ 58,940 on average in March, nearly $ 11,000 more than a typical new car, according to Kelley Blue Book.
Ethan Derner of Portland, Ore., and his fiancée, Lorien Sekora, share two Kia electric cars. Mr. Derner had considered replacing his car with a new model that could drive farther on a charge, but he gave up after realizing that the vehicles he wanted were either too expensive or no more practical than his current car. He has extended the lease on his Kia Soul and is waiting for more affordable models that can qualify for a tax credit.
"The only other model I'm considering now is a Rivian, but that's out of my price range," Mr. Derner said. Rivian's electric luxury models like the R1T pickup truck and R1S S.U.V. are built in Illinois and qualify for a $ 3,750 credit.
"Until I can drive to Seattle and back with no anxiety," Mr. Derner added, "I'm not going to buy a new E.V. outright."
His experience is common. About 80 percent of people who were shopping for an electric vehicle recently surveyed by Cars.com said tax credits played a big role in their decision to buy an electric car and the vehicle they planned to buy.
Many industry experts and consumers have praised the multipronged mission of the law to curb greenhouse gas emissions, create jobs in the United States and blunt China's dominance in batteries and mineral processing. Since President Biden took office, automakers, battery and other companies have announced plans to spend more than $ 100 billion to electrify the U.S. auto industry.
Yet the rules could hinder the goal of getting more people to buy electric vehicles -- at least for the next few years.
"They made it complex for a reason, but in the meantime it's creating all kinds of chaos for consumers," said Chris Harto, senior policy analyst for Consumer Reports. "In the short term, it's absolutely going to hurt the companies that aren't eligible and help the companies that are."
The reshuffled credits appear to deal an especially tough hand to Hyundai Motor, which also owns the Kia and Genesis brands.
Models like the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and Kia EV6 have won industry accolades and impressed buyers with attractive designs and some of the fastest charging times of any electric cars. But they are built in South Korea and, thus, not eligible for any federal tax breaks.
Even as sales of all Hyundai and Kia cars jumped in the first three months of the year, the brands' electric vehicle sales fell more than 25 percent, according to Kelley Blue Book. Electric car sales on the whole soared to another record in the first quarter, on a pace to top one million cars in 2023, and now account for 7.2 percent of all new cars sold.
The credit rules have been changing fast. Last month, Genesis' first American-built model, the Electrified GV70 sport utility vehicle, began rolling off a Hyundai line in Alabama after 16 hours of assembly. Genesis executives had hoped that the model could qualify for a credit, but the car did not meet the tougher rules the Biden administration released this week.
To make up for the loss of the tax breaks, Hyundai and other automakers are trying to lure buyers through leases. Under the administration's broad interpretations of the law, leased electric cars are eligible for tax credits even if they are made overseas and are not subjected to the government's rules on sourcing requirements for battery components and minerals, household income caps and vehicle price thresholds.
Car dealers can pass along the commercial credit to consumers by lowering the price of the car in lease transactions, which could reduce monthly payments. Under the rules of thumb for auto financing, applying the full $ 7,500 credit to a lease could save consumers about $ 225 per month over three years, or $ 125 per month over five years, said Russell Datz, a spokesman for Volvo.
Volvo, which is based in Goteborg, Sweden, sells two electric models in the United States that are made at a factory in Belgium and do not qualify for federal tax credits. The automaker will start assembling a new S.U.V., the EX90, at its factory in South Carolina this year.
Consumers are getting the money-saving message. In September, after the law's passage, just 7 percent of consumers leased an electric vehicle, according to Edmunds.com. By March, leases accounted for 34 percent of the electric car market.
Gary Murphy, a retired educator in Castle Rock, Colo., leased an Ioniq 5 in February from a dealer that learned of the commercial credit the day before.
"We had no plans to lease a car," Mr. Murphy said. "But when they confirmed you can get $ 7,500 on a lease, or nothing to buy, that's too big an incentive to pass up."
Before tracking down the Ioniq 5, he waited for months for three different electric models, which were in short supply. When cars were available, many dealers demanded several thousand dollars more than manufacturers' suggested retail prices.
"You can get the credit, but you can't get the car," Mr. Murphy said.
The use of credits for leased vehicles has angered some automakers and lawmakers who say it subverts the intent of Congress. Consumers can lease any electric vehicle for the $ 7,500 credit. For example, a couple making more than $ 300,000 -- the income limit for married people for the tax credit -- can lease a $ 148,000 Mercedes-Benz AMG EQS and claim a $ 7,500 credit even though the car is made in Germany and far exceeds the $ 55,000 price cap for electric sedans to qualify for the credit.
Treasury officials have said their decision to allow a tax credit for leased cars is legally sound. The Inflation Reduction Act exempted commercial vehicles from the restrictions to encourage rental car companies, local governments and other owners of car and truck fleets to buy electric vehicles.
Of course, many consumers prefer buying and owning cars, in part to avoid lease limits on how much they can drive and penalties for excessive wear and tear.
José Muñoz, the chief executive of Hyundai and Genesis Motor North America, insists the loss of buyer credits puts his brands at a huge marketplace disadvantage. But the chairman of Hyundai's national dealer council, Kevin Reilly, said models like the Ioniq 5 and Ioniq 6 would remain competitive despite their financial handicap.
The Ioniq 6, which recently went on sale, is the longest-range and most energy-efficient mass-market electric car in the United States. It can be driven up to 361 miles on a full charge and gets the equivalent of 140 miles to the gallon, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
"I think our customers will evaluate the full landscape, not just whether an E.V. qualifies for credit," said Mr. Reilly, the owner and president of Alexandria Hyundai in Virginia.
Mr. Reilly said leasing offered other advantages. People who are anxious about switching to battery-powered cars can try one without a long-term commitment or worrying about resale value. And as electric vehicle technology advances and more affordable models hit the market, customers can easily upgrade when their lease is up.
Still, some car buyers said they would buy only electric cars eligible for tax credits because they supported the aims of the Inflation Reduction Act.
Jonathan Quarles, an entrepreneur in Detroit, said he spent more than $ 150 per week to fill up a Ford Expedition to ferry his three daughters around town. He is considering replacing it with an electric Ford Mustang Mach-E, which is eligible for a $ 3,750 federal tax credit. After watching manufacturing jobs leave the country for decades, he said, he has little sympathy for automakers whose cars did not qualify for credits.
"My perspective is," he said, "you should have been building those factories way before the credit."
Photograph Ethan Derner, left, of Portland, Ore., and his fiancée, Lorien Sekora, who have two Kias, put off plans to upgrade his car to an E.V. with a longer range because many models are too expensive and do not qualify for a federal tax credit. (B1); "Until I can drive to Seattle and back with no anxiety, I'm not going to buy a new E.V. outright," Ethan Derner said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILL MATSUDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Commercial credit; Consumers; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Tax cuts; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Commercial credit Consumers Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Tax cuts Tax credits Automobile sales Automobile dealers

Location: United States--US; North America

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/20/business/electric-vehicle-tax-credits-consumers.html

Title: Credits and Debits of E.V. Shopping:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 24, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804841923

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credits-debits-e-v-shopping/docview/2804841923/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-24

Database: Global Newsstream Co llection

____________________________________________________________

Electric Vehicle Tax Credit Rules Create ‘Chaos for Consumers’

Author: Lawrence, Ulrich

Publication info: Lawrence, Ulrich. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-vehicle-tax-credit-rules-create-chaos/docview/2804793180/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Designed to accelerate the shift to electric cars among other climate goals, the Inflation Reduction Act has in practice made buying such vehicles a lot more complicated.
In August, the law ruled out the full tax credit of $7,500 for electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids assembled outside North America. That may make it harder for consumers to take the financial or psychological leap to buy a battery-powered car.
The Treasury Department further tightened those rules this week by requiring that a certain percentage of the components and minerals in car batteries are sourced from the United States or in countries that are its trade allies — numbers that will increase over time.
Just 11 electric cars from four automakers — Tesla, General Motors, Ford Motor and Volkswagen — now qualify for the full tax credit; several others can qualify for a partial $3,750 credit. The list is expected to grow as more automakers reconfigure their supply chains.
The rules are already driving big changes in the buying and selling of electric cars. Some automakers whose models are no longer eligible are now pushing leased electric cars. That’s because the law allows leased vehicles to qualify as commercial vehicles, which the Inflation Reduction Act exempts from the restrictions that apply to cars bought by individuals.
For many car buyers, the availability of the tax credit is critical. Electric vehicle prices have fallen in recent months, but they still cost $58,940 on average in March, nearly $11,000 more than a typical new car, according to Kelley Blue Book.
Ethan Derner of Portland, Oregon, and his fiancee, Lorien Sekora, share two Kia electric cars. Derner had considered replacing his car with a new model that could drive farther on a charge, but he gave up after realizing that the vehicles he wanted were either too expensive or no more practical than his current car. He has extended the lease on his Kia Soul and is waiting for more affordable models that can qualify for a tax credit.
“The only other model I’m considering now is a Rivian, but that’s out of my price range,” Derner said. Rivian’s electric luxury models like the R1T pickup truck and R1S SUV are built in Illinois and qualify for a $3,750 credit.
“Until I can drive to Seattle and back with no anxiety,” Derner added, “I’m not going to buy a new EV outright.”
His experience is common. About 80% of people who were shopping for an electric vehicle recently surveyed by Cars.com said tax credits played a big role in their decision to buy an electric car and the vehicle they planned to buy.
Many industry experts and consumers have praised the multipronged mission of the law to curb greenhouse gas emissions, create jobs in the United States and blunt China’s dominance in batteries and mineral processing. Since President Joe Biden took office, automakers, battery and other companies have announced plans to spend more than $100 billion to electrify the U.S. auto industry.
Yet the rules could hinder the goal of getting more people to buy electric vehicles — at least for the next few years.
“They made it complex for a reason, but in the meantime, it’s creating all kinds of chaos for consumers,” said Chris Harto, senior policy analyst for Consumer Reports. “In the short term, it’s absolutely going to hurt the companies that aren’t eligible and help the companies that are.”
The reshuffled credits appear to deal an especially tough hand to Hyundai Motor, which also owns the Kia and Genesis brands.
Models like the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and Kia EV6 have won industry accolades and impressed buyers with attractive designs and some of the fastest charging times of any electric cars. But they are built in South Korea and, thus, not eligible for any federal tax breaks.
Even as sales of all Hyundai and Kia cars jumped in the first three months of the year, the brands’ electric vehicle sales fell more than 25%, according to Kelley Blue Book. Electric car sales on the whole soared to another record in the first quarter, on a pace to top 1 million cars in 2023, and now account for 7.2% of all new cars sold.
The credit rules have been changing fast. Last month, Genesis’ first American-built model, the Electrified GV70 sport utility vehicle, began rolling off a Hyundai line in Alabama after 16 hours of assembly. Genesis executives had hoped that the model could qualify for a credit, but the car did not meet the tougher rules the Biden administration released this week.
To make up for the loss of the tax breaks, Hyundai and other automakers are trying to lure buyers through leases. Under the administration’s broad interpretations of the law, leased electric cars are eligible for tax credits even if they are made overseas and are not subjected to the government’s rules on sourcing requirements for battery components and minerals, household income caps and vehicle price thresholds.
Car dealers can pass along the commercial credit to consumers by lowering the price of the car in lease transactions, which could reduce monthly payments. Under the rules of thumb for auto financing, applying the full $7,500 credit to a lease could save consumers about $225 per month over three years, or $125 per month over five years, said Russell Datz, a spokesperson for Volvo.
Volvo, which is based in Goteborg, Sweden, sells two electric models in the United States that are made at a factory in Belgium and do not qualify for federal tax credits. The automaker will start assembling a new SUV, the EX90, at its factory in South Carolina this year.
Consumers are getting the money-saving message. In September, after the law’s passage, just 7% of consumers leased an electric vehicle, according to Edmunds.com. By March, leases accounted for 34% of the electric car market.
Gary Murphy, a retired educator in Castle Rock, Colorado, leased an Ioniq 5 in February from a dealer that learned of the commercial credit the day before.
“We had no plans to lease a car,” Murphy said. “But when they confirmed you can get $7,500 on a lease, or nothing to buy, that’s too big an incentive to pass up.”
Before tracking down the Ioniq 5, he waited for months for three different electric models, which were in short supply. When cars were available, many dealers demanded several thousand dollars more than manufacturers’ suggested retail prices.
“You can get the credit, but you can’t get the car,” Murphy said.
The use of credits for leased vehicles has angered some automakers and lawmakers who say it subverts the intent of Congress. Consumers can lease any electric vehicle for the $7,500 credit. For example, a couple making more than $300,000 — the income limit for married people for the tax credit — can lease a $148,000 Mercedes-Benz AMG EQS and claim a $7,500 credit even though the car is made in Germany and far exceeds the $55,000 price cap for electric sedans to qualify for the credit.
Treasury officials have said their decision to allow a tax credit for leased cars is legally sound. The Inflation Reduction Act exempted commercial vehicles from the restrictions to encourage rental car companies, local governments and other owners of car and truck fleets to buy electric vehicles.
Of course, many consumers prefer buying and owning cars, in part to avoid lease limits on how much they can drive and penalties for excessive wear and tear.
José Muñoz, the CEO of Hyundai and Genesis Motor North America, insists the loss of buyer credits puts his brands at a huge marketplace disadvantage. But the chair of Hyundai’s national dealer council, Kevin Reilly, said models like the Ioniq 5 and Ioniq 6 would remain competitive despite their financial handicap.
The Ioniq 6, which recently went on sale, is the longest-range and most energy-efficient mass-market electric car in the United States. It can be driven up to 361 miles on a full charge and gets the equivalent of 140 miles to the gallon, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
“I think our customers will evaluate the full landscape, not just whether an EV qualifies for credit,” said Reilly, the owner and president of Alexandria Hyundai in Virginia.
Reilly said leasing offered other advantages. People who are anxious about switching to battery-powered cars can try one without a long-term commitment or worrying about resale value. And as electric vehicle technology advances and more affordable models hit the market, customers can easily upgrade when their lease is up.
Still, some car buyers said they would buy only electric cars eligible for tax credits because they supported the aims of the Inflation Reduction Act.
Jonathan Quarles, an entrepreneur in Detroit, said he spent more than $150 per week to fill up a Ford Expedition to ferry his three daughters around town. He is considering replacing it with an electric Ford Mustang Mach-E, which is eligible for a $3,750 federal tax credit. After watching manufacturing jobs leave the country for decades, he said, he has little sympathy for automakers whose cars did not qualify for credits.
“My perspective is,” he said, “you should have been building those factories way before the credit.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Commercial credit; Consumers; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Tax cuts; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Commercial credit Consumers Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Tax cuts Tax credits Automobile sales Automobile dealers

Location: United States--US; North America

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Belgium; Rationing And Allocation Of Resources; Consumer Behavior; Alexandria (Va); South Korea; Environmental Protection Agency; Global Warming; Inflation (Economics); Real Estate (Commercial); EdmundsCom; Kia Motors Corp; Hyundai Motor Co; Income Tax; Inflation Reduction Act Of 2022; Oregon; Air Pollution; United States; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; Politics And Government; Ford Motor Co; Genesis Motors; Automobiles; Alabama; Volvo Car Corp; Illinois; Ab Volvo; General Motors; Germany; Personal Finances; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Castle Rock (Colo); Federal State Relations (Us); Kelley Blue Book Co; Advertising And Marketing; State Legislatures; Mercedes Benz; Sweden; Law And Legislation; South Carolina; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Rivian Automotive Llc; Corporate Social Responsibility; Factories And Manufacturing; Ulrich, Lawrence; Portland (Ore); Volkswagen Ag; United States International Relations; Colorado; Batteries; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Gothenburg (Sweden); North America; Virginia; Consumer Reports; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; United States Economy; Automobile Renting And Leasing; Luxury Goods And Services; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Electric Vehicle Tax Credit Rules Create ‘Chaos for Consumers’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 23, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-23T22:40:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804793180

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-vehicle-tax-credit-rules-create-chaos/docview/2804793180/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Brands Gain Edge With Tax Breaks for E.V.s: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-brands-gain-edge-with-tax-breaks-e-v/docview/2802215876/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Rules that take effect on Tuesday will limit the $ 7,500 credits to electric cars made domestically with minerals from the U.S. or trade allies.
American brands like Tesla and General Motors will benefit most from rules that determine which electric vehicles qualify for tax credits starting on Tuesday. Foreign carmakers like Hyundai will be at a significant disadvantage because of restrictions aimed at cutting China out of the supply chain.
Only 10 vehicles will initially qualify for tax credits of $ 7,500, less than a quarter of the battery-powered cars on sale in the United States. But those 10 include many of the most popular models and accounted for two-thirds of electric vehicle sales before the new rules took effect.
Tesla's Model 3 and Model Y, the best-selling electric vehicles in the United States, will qualify for the full $ 7,500 credit, with one exception, according to a list published by the Treasury Department on Monday. The least expensive version of the Model 3 will qualify for only half the credit because its battery is made in China.
G.M.'s Chevrolet Bolt, one of the cheapest electric vehicles on the market, will also qualify, as will sport utility vehicles and pickups that the company plans to begin selling this year.
Fewer Ford vehicles will qualify for the full $ 7,500 credit because of rules requiring that a certain percentage of the battery components and minerals like lithium come from either domestic sources or trade allies. Ford's Mustang Mach-E, the third-best-selling electric vehicle in the United States last year, according to Kelley Blue Book, will be eligible for only half the credit because its Polish-made battery does not meet domestic sourcing requirements. The F-150 Lightning pickup will continue to qualify for the full credit.
Chrysler and Jeep, divisions of Stellantis, do not yet sell cars that run solely on batteries, but several of their hybrid models will qualify for at least some of the credit. Hybrid vehicles can qualify if their batteries have a capacity of at least seven kilowatt-hours.
The rules give U.S. carmakers at least a temporary advantage over competitors like Toyota, Volkswagen and Nissan. No foreign automakers were on the Treasury list, which is expected to grow as companies adjust their supply chains.
Carmakers that qualify for the tax credits will now have a head start as sales of electric vehicles take off. "It causes a multiplier effect in the market," Paul Jacobson, G.M.'s chief financial officer, told reporters in New York this month. The rules, he added, are "very consistent with the strategy that we had already adopted."
The rules grow out of the Inflation Reduction Act, which Democrats passed last year to fight climate change and encourage domestic manufacturing among other things. The Treasury Department was responsible for writing regulations based on the legislation.
The law seeks to reduce the auto industry's reliance on China, which makes most of the world's batteries and dominates the processing of raw materials. The law also establishes limits on sales prices and excludes individuals who earn more than $ 150,000 a year and couples who make more than $ 300,000. The rules also exclude vehicles made outside North America, including in allied countries like South Korea and Germany.
"We were not happy," José Muñoz, the chief executive of Hyundai and Genesis Motor North America, said in an interview at the New York International Auto Show this month. Hyundai's Ioniq 6 electric sedan was named World Car of the Year at the show, but will not be eligible for tax credits because it is assembled in South Korea.
Hyundai, based in Seoul, is investing $ 10 billion to build car and battery plants in Georgia, which will allow the company to meet the Inflation Reduction Act requirements -- but not for several years.
Officials at the carmaker and the South Korean government asked the Biden administration to allow Hyundai and Kia cars to qualify for credits while the factories were under construction, but were told that the law did not allow such an exception, Mr. Muñoz said.
The Hyundai car factory in Georgia is expected to begin producing cars in 2025. The battery plant, which Hyundai is building with SK On, will start production in 2026. "We are working on putting ahead that date so we can qualify earlier," Mr. Muñoz said.
Tesla had already told potential buyers that the least expensive version of the Model 3 sedan would qualify for only half the credit, or $ 3,750. This month, Tesla cut the price of that car by $ 1,000 to $ 41,990. After the partial credit is accounted for, the car will effectively cost many buyers a little more than $ 38,000, about as much as a top-of-the-line Honda Accord and cheaper than an entry-level BMW 3 Series sedan.
Other versions of the Model 3 and Model Y S.U.V. will continue to receive the full credit. Tesla sold more electric vehicles in the United States last year than all other carmakers combined, according to Kelley Blue Book.
Some auto executives have said the rules are too restrictive and undermine efforts to limit climate change. Other critics, like Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, have complained that the Biden administration's rules are too lenient.
Administration officials have argued that the regulations strike a balance between promoting electric vehicles and building a domestic supply chain.
By the administration's count, besides the 10 vehicles that qualify for the full credit, seven qualify for half the credit. Vehicles can qualify for half the credit if, for example, their battery components come from the United States, Canada or Mexico but the minerals used to make the batteries do not meet the sourcing requirements.
Ten vehicles that previously qualified, including the Nissan Leaf and the Volkswagen ID.4, will drop off the list, at least temporarily.
The ID.4, an S.U.V. made in Chattanooga, Tenn., did not make the new list because it is still assessing its supply chain. But Pablo Di Si, the chief executive of Volkswagen Group of America, said he expected the model to qualify. Volkswagen was fourth behind Tesla, G.M. and Ford in U.S. electric vehicle sales in the first three months of the year, according to Kelley Blue Book.
Five electric vehicles that G.M. sells or is planning to sell this year will qualify. In addition to the Bolt, the Cadillac Lyriq and electric versions of the Chevrolet Equinox and Blazer S.U.V.s and the Silverado pickup will qualify for the full credit. G.M. and LG Energy Solution have begun producing battery cells at a factory in Ohio.
The new rules could be revised in response to comments from the public. It is up to carmakers to show that they qualify, but they are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service and could be penalized if they provide incorrect information. The I.R.S. publishes a list of eligible vehicles that is updated regularly.
A provision in the law for commercial vehicles allows companies to collect the credits for all leased vehicles even if the cars don't meet sourcing and manufacturing requirements. Automakers and their dealers can pass on the savings to people who lease cars, and, as a result, Hyundai has seen a spike in leases, Mr. Muñoz said. The company is also offering cars through monthly subscriptions to let customers benefit from tax incentives and try electric cars.
But that will not make up for lost sales, because most people prefer buying rather than leasing or renting cars, Mr. Muñoz said.
"We cannot compete unless we simply drop dramatically the price," he said. "It's impossible to make it work from a financial point of view."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Automobile shows; Electric vehicles; Supply chains; Automobile industry; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Manufacturing; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Supply chains Automobile industry Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Manufacturing Tax credits Automobile sales Factories

Location: New York; United States--US; North America; Georgia; China; South Korea

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/17/business/electric-vehicles-tax-credits.html

Title: U.S. Brands Gain Edge With Tax Breaks for E.V.s:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802215876

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-brands-gain-edge-with-tax-breaks-e-v/doc view/2802215876/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Knowledge of 'Grease 2' Couldn't Hurt: [Society Desk]

Author: Manners, Ivy

Publication info: Manners, Ivy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/knowledge-grease-2-couldnt-hurt/docview/2801437336/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Michael Sin-Suarez was shocked when he overheard Kia Zalewski discussing one of his favorite '80s movies. Neither of them anticipated that reciting dialogue from the film would later lead to romance.
It was the summer of 2005, and Kia Dawn Zalewski, a recent graduate of Florida State University with a bachelor's degree in communications, landed a position in sales and marketing at Nikki Beach Miami, a luxury beach club. While working in the corporate office, she often crossed paths with the then-V.I.P. manager, Michael Anthony Sin-Suarez.
Each thought the other was attractive, but there was something else that caught their attention. "I came in one day and she was talking about 'Grease 2' with a co-worker," Mr. Sin-Suarez, an '80s movie aficionado, said. "No one knows 'Grease 2', but it was one of my favorite movies. She said a line from the movie and I said the following one."
A year later, she left Nikki Beach to work for a public relations firm in Miami. But a surprise encounter would lead them back to each other. In September 2012, Ms. Zalewski was visiting friends in Marbella, Spain, and one of them turned out to be roommates with Mr. Sin-Suarez. He was by then a manager at Nikki Beach Marbella. After that trip, the two kept in touch.
In early January 2013, Mr. Sin-Suarez traveled to New York, where Ms. Zalewski was living, for a friend's wedding. "Michael asked me to meet up with him in Rockefeller Center," Ms. Zalewski said. She nearly declined.
"But I accepted and we had the most fun running around town," she said, "drinking whiskey from a pocket flask and having far too many pickleback shots at tiny Midtown dive bars."
A few weeks later, Ms. Zalewski reached out to Mr. Sin-Suarez, who was then a manager at Nikki Beach Resort & Spa Koh Samui in Thailand, to ask if he could pass on her résumé to a friend in Los Angeles, where she was looking to relocate.
While the call from Los Angeles never came, Ms. Zalewski was offered a job as the marketing lead at Nikki Beach in Thailand. "I had two days to take the offer and two weeks to empty my apartment and move my life to Koh Samui," she said.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
The pair quickly became best friends over late nights in the office, post-work cocktails, and getting each other through occasional bouts of homesickness.
Over a year later, in October 2014, the two traveled to a work conference in Marbella. When the backpacking trip Ms. Zalewski planned fell through, Mr. Sin Suarez invited her to go to Rome with him. "We had an amazing time, even though things didn't go as planned," he said. "We missed flights because I miscalculated the times, but she was so easygoing and understanding. It was the best trip I've ever had."
The couple officially began dating in 2015 when they moved together to oversee the Nikki Beach Bali location in Indonesia, where Ms. Zalewski was the marketing director and Mr. Sin-Suarez, who attended Johnson & Wales University for culinary studies, was the general manager. (The location has since closed.) "Since then, we've traveled around the world together," Ms. Zalewski said.
In 2016, they moved back to Miami, where they still live today, and adopted a dog they named Lilo. Ms. Zalewski is now the senior marketing director for the Riviera Dining Group, a luxury hospitality company based in Miami, and Mr. Sin-Suarez is the general manager at Nikki Beach Miami.
Mr. Sin-Suarez had been plotting a proposal since 2019, but Covid threw a wrench into his planning. "Then in summer 2021, I suggested going to New York City to celebrate my birthday in September," he said. The trip started with an unexpected gift from Mr. Sin-Suarez to Ms. Zalewski: a silver pocket flask engraved with the words "All roads lead to you'."
Mr. Sin-Suarez then insisted on visiting Rockefeller Center, where he got down on one knee and proposed. They then "stopped into Midtown bars to toast with celebratory pickleback shots and danced the night away," Ms. Zalewski said.
Ms. Zalewski, 39, and Mr. Sin-Suarez, 44, were married April 1 at Sydonie Mansion in Mount Dora, Fla. Ms. Zalewski's older brother, Joel Zalewski, who was ordained by the American Marriage Ministries for the occasion, officiated the ceremony in front of 83 guests.
The wedding was the actualization of a dream for Mr. Sin-Suarez. "Back when Facebook was a big thing and before we were serious, I tagged Kia in a photo of Ralph Macchio and the actress who played his love interest in 'Karate Kid,"' he said (that actress was Elisabeth Shue). "I wrote that I wished my life was like an '80s movie, and, in fact, it's been like a great '80s movie with her."
Photograph Kia Zalewski, Michael Sin-Suarez (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA LEIGH PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST13.

Subject: Weddings; Marketing; Actors; Motion picture directors & producers

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing

Location: Thailand; Los Angeles California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/14/style/kia-zalewski-michael-sin-suarez-wedding.html

Title: A Knowledge of 'Grease 2' Couldn't Hurt:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437336

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/knowledge-grease-2-couldnt-hurt/docview/2801437336/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Is That a TV on the Dashboard?: [Style Desk]

Author: Lawrence, Ulrich

Publication info: Lawrence, Ulrich. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-that-tv-on-dashboard/docview/2801437263/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As luxury cars become rolling supercomputers, designers are wondering how big is too big.
From pocket-stretching smartphones to wall-hogging TVs, Americans have often asked: How much screen is too much?
The question has come to today's gadget-stuffed cars, whose increasingly colossal screens are splitting opinions among designers, car buyers and industry critics. These do-it-all touch screens, the nerve centers of many new cars, have sparked a backlash because of their size, as well as the clunky interfaces that may take eyes off the road.
"I think we've reached Peak Screen," said Klaus Busse, Maserati's head of design, who previously led design for Alfa Romeo, Fiat and Lancia. "Screens have their right of existence -- they do a lot of things better than physical switches. It's just been pushed a little too far."
Beyond having ergonomic and safety concerns, some luxury designers object on aesthetic grounds. To them, screens just aren't sexy or luxurious.
"When flat screens showed up, the-bigger-the-better was the trend," said Kai Langer, head of design for BMW i, the automaker's electric division. "But 'bigger' isn't always the richest."
Screens are now integral to most modern cars, which are more or less rolling supercomputers, running up to 14 times more code than a Boeing 787. And designers must keep in mind the demands of car owners who expect that their Apple or Android smartphones will hook up flawlessly.
"Steve Jobs changed the world, and now mankind touches a screen," said Gorden Wagener, the chief designer for Mercedes-Benz. "That fundamentally changes the car as well. The car needs a good interface, not just a wiper switch and turn indicator."
When Elon Musk unveiled the Tesla Model S in 2009, the command center, with its 17-inch LCD touch screen, seemed nearly as game-changing as the car itself. And in giving drivers digital control of automotive functions, Tesla was able to avoid the expense of engineering, wiring and building a cabin full of pricey analog switches, knobs and gauges -- or having to buy them from another automaker or supplier.
In Tesla's bare-bones Model 3 and Model Y especially, one might suspect that interior designers worked overtime on their ingenious screens and then called it a day. A number of Tesla's competitors mimicked the cabins' austere, vaguely sci-fi vibe.
The creators of later electric vehicles -- including BMW's futuristic yet sumptuous iX and the Kia EV6 -- came up with warmer car interiors better suited to drivers who may not want to feel as if they are spending hours inside the mainframe from "Tron." Some designers are even ditching that most played-out of E.V. tropes, the Mac-like monochromes of gray-silver-white.
With its expanded touch screen, Tesla also spurred an arms race measured in inches. Ford stuffed a 15.5-inch screen into its Mustang Mach-e and F-150 Lightning E.V.s. The start-up Rivian has installed a 16-inch display in the R1T and R1S models. Another California company, Lucid, created a 34-inch, curved-glass screen for the Air sedan.
And then there is the "Hyperscreen," from Mercedes-Benz.
Powered by eight processors, framed under a sculptural slab of double-coated glass, the Hyperscreen (actually three screens that appear as one) spreads 56 inches of digital interface across the dashboard. Augmented-reality navigation generates virtual street signs and directional guides over the pavement in a real-time camera view. Almost magically, virtual address numbers hover over homes and businesses as you approach a destination.
Yet the Hyperscreen doesn't always work as elegantly as it looks -- especially when drivers are, well, driving. Issues include fussy thumb-pad controls on the steering wheel and moments of hair-pulling confusion, especially for customers who grew up with predigital rides. Mr. Wagener said that Mercedes intentionally launched its Hyperscreen in its electric vehicles to aim it at tech-savvy customers.
BMW is no stranger to screens, having ushered in iDrive more than 20 years ago on the 7-Series sedan. That digital operating system, with a now-quaint 6.5-inch screen atop the dashboard, infuriated many drivers because it was so hard to use. But as BMW refined it over the years, rival car companies adopted similar systems.
The i7 sedan, a new electric model from BMW, wraps a curved screen around the driver. The back of the car offers a 31-inch, fold-down theater touch screen, with 5G connectivity and Amazon Fire for streaming. Another 5.5-inch screen nestles into each rear armrest.
At the annual CES in Las Vegas in January, BMW threw down that gauntlet by going well beyond the touch screen. In the iVision Dee, a concept sedan that previews a range of BMW "Neue Klasse" E.V.s -- the first scheduled to arrive in 2025 -- the windshield itself takes the place of a dashboard touch screen.
"Let's use the biggest display we already have in a car, which is the windshield," Mr. Langer, the BMW design chief, said.
The augmented-reality windshield allows for "Minority Report"-style projections of traditional gauges (speedometer; temperature settings; audio displays) and social-and-streaming content. The system, which BMW will call Panoramic Vision on showroom models, greatly expands the head-up displays that project content into the field of view, allowing drivers to check the controls without looking away from the road.
For those leery of astral projections blocking their view of I-95, Mr. Langer said that drivers could choose any display level. A "mixed reality slider" can limit traditional information, such as a speedometer, to a thin strip of lower windshield, where today's head-up displays already operate. Drivers more at ease with digital projections can fill more of the windshield glass with content. When the car isn't moving, including during charging stops, passengers may eventually use the entire windshield like a virtual drive-in for movies, games, Zoom meetings or trips to the metaverse.
At the convention in Las Vegas, the BMW chairman Oliver Zipse said he was convinced that regulators would eventually ban large dashboard screens because of safety concerns. "If you have to look down to operate your car, we think it's a big mistake," he told Automotive News Europe.
Mr. Langer noted that prominent screens do not appear in the pages of high-end shelter or architectural magazines. "None of our consumers would want to cover their living room in screens," he said. "They want their Eames chair or Nelson clock. And we want our customers to feel at home."
And if touch screens shrink or even disappear from cars' cabins, designers will be free to reclaim the interiors for something more aesthetically pleasing. "A touch screen doesn't speak to our senses," Mr. Langer said. "We're made to touch fabrics and sense different surfaces; that's what makes us human."
Some of the iVision Dee's fanciful tech -- including a chameleon-like body that can instantly change to one of 32 colors -- may be ditched or watered down in production versions. Yet BMW vows the panoramic display is bound for showrooms.
Mercedes-Benz is skeptical. While it offers head-up displays, it is convinced that windshield projections "are light-years behind the quality and resolution you can achieve on a screen," Mr. Wagener said.
"It's certainly an innovative approach," he continued. "But we've tried it, and it's disturbing or disorienting to have all that in your viewing area."
Maserati is steering a middle course with its GranTurismo. Its interior includes a pair of screens that don't draw attention to themselves.
"We don't want a screen to be the main protagonist," Mr. Busse, the Maserati design chief, said.
In his view, the car is a refuge from the digital world and its pressures.
"For us," he said, "it's still about the driving experience -- to enjoy this beautiful machine and the countryside where you're operating it."
Photograph Tesla's Model S, above, helped usher in the era of big dashboard touch screens. In BMW's new i7 sedan, far right, riders can watch movies on a 31-inch screen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIZ HAFALIA/SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; BMW) (ST8; ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Supercomputers; Design; Smartphones; Automotive engineering; Electric vehicles; Interactive computer systems; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones

Location: United States--US; Las Vegas Nevada

Company / organization: Name: Mercedes-Benz Group AG; NAICS: 336110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/10/style/cars-touch-screens.html

Title: Is That a TV on the Dashboard?:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437263

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-that-tv-on-dashboard/docview/2801437263/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Challenges Could Stall Biden's E.V. Revolution: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Davenport, Coral; Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Davenport, Coral; Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/challenges-could-stall-bidens-e-v-revolution/docview/2800446863/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The administration's push to supercharge E.V. sales must now surmount resistance from manufacturers and consumers as well as likely legal challenges.
WASHINGTON -- Aggressive rules proposed by the Biden administration to drastically speed up the country's transition to electric vehicles, and significantly cut the auto pollution that is dangerously heating the planet, face several economic, logistical and legal challenges.
The plans, outlined Wednesday by the Environmental Protection Agency, are designed to ensure that two-thirds of new passenger cars and a quarter of new heavy trucks sold in the United States are all-electric by 2032. If enacted as proposed, the regulations would mean a quantum leap for the auto industry in the United States, where just 5.8 percent of new cars and less than 2 percent of trucks sold last year were all-electric.
Transportation is the single largest source of greenhouse gases generated by the United States, the second-biggest polluting country after China. To head off climate catastrophe, President Biden has promised to cut the nation's emissions in half by 2030. Shrinking tailpipe emissions is key to that plan.
But to transform the American automobile industry on the scale it envisions, the Biden administration has to surmount resistance from manufacturers and consumers as well as likely legal challenges from those who consider the regulations government overreach.
One of the most important aspects of a wholesale transition to electric vehicles has to do with timing.
Although nearly every automaker has already invested billions in electrification, the proposed regulations create a dilemma: how to continue to manufacture gasoline-powered vehicles, which provide profits, while investing even more in new electric facilities. The aggressive timeline envisioned by the government means the carmakers could also struggle to source the materials required for vehicle batteries, already difficult to obtain.
Market demand is another challenge. Even with federal tax incentives of up to $ 7,500 for consumers, electric vehicles cost more upfront than conventional cars and trucks. At the end of 2022, the price of an average new car was $ 49,507 compared with $ 61,448 for an electric vehicle, according to the Kelley Blue Book. But even for motivated consumers who can afford electric vehicles, a major stumbling block is what's known as range anxiety, the fear of being stranded because an electric vehicle cannot reach its destination on a single charge and not enough fast-charging stations exit.
"This was always a transformation that was going to happen over decades," said Stephanie Brinley, an automotive analyst at S&P Global. "Putting this aggressive a timeline on it means that there are a lot of things that have to happen consecutively and concurrently."
Looming over all of this is an all-but-certain legal and political threat: The new rules could be erased by the courts or a future president.
In many ways, the industry is already moving into an all-electric future. General Motors has set a goal of phasing out the sale of all internal combustion vehicles by 2035. Ford Motor has said it hopes E.V.s make up half of its sales by 2030. Volkswagen and Stellantis, the company formed through the merger of Fiat Chrysler and Peugeot, have similar targets. Hyundai and Nissan are also ramping up E.V. production.
But the proposed regulations would require even more of automakers.
Ford is on track to spend $ 50 billion between 2022 through 2026 on its electric vehicle production, with two battery factories under construction in Kentucky, and a third planned in Tennessee, along with an electric truck plant. In February it announced it would build a $ 3.5 billion battery plant in Michigan with a Chinese partner.
The automaker, however, will most likely need to spend billions more if electric vehicles are to make up two-thirds of the more than two million vehicles that it sells in North America annually.
The risks of accelerating the transition away from gasoline-powered vehicles are "high, if not very high," for the industry, said Matthias Heck, a vice president at Moody's Investors Service, "because electrification will require further substantial investments into new battery electric vehicles, battery technology, supply chain and manufacturing capacity, and charging infrastructure."
Ford and other automakers also have not yet secured sufficient sources of lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese and other materials needed for automotive batteries, and it is unclear where they will get them.
While the Biden administration is betting that electric vehicle costs will come down with mass production, Carlos Tavares, chief executive of Stellantis, said the difficulty of sourcing materials worked against that. "The affordability is not there because the raw materials are scarce and very expensive, and, I would add, very volatile," Mr. Tavares said at a recent conference in Detroit.
Manufacturers are funding their electric vehicle production now from substantial profits on their gas-powered trucks and sport utility vehicles. But maintaining profitability as they produce more electric vehicles and fewer gas-powered models will be a challenge, experts say.
General Motors has said it is not yet making money on its electric vehicles, and Ford recently said its electric division was set to lose $ 3 billion this year. Both companies hope to turn the corner as they ramp up production of electric models but are also trying to cut costs now, especially in view of the uncertain economy.
G.M. is in the process of eliminating 5,000 jobs as part of an effort to reduce costs by $ 2 billion. Ford last year began to trim about 3,000 jobs from its work force.
"Getting to 50, 60 percent E.V.s is certainly possible," said Sam Abuelsamid, a principal research analyst at Guidehouse Insights. "But this isn't going to be easy. Not at all."
And while the pace of electric vehicle purchases is ticking up, many car buyers are uncertain about the new technology.
"We're making sales to early adopters and easy adopters but we need to get beyond them," said John Bozzella, president of the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, which represents large U.S. and foreign automakers. "We have a long way to go."
The most basic hurdle is price.
The federal government will offer buyers up to $ 7,500 in tax credits for the purchase of an electric vehicle for the next decade, depending on how much of the vehicle was made in the United States. But of the 91 unique electric vehicle models now on the market in the country, fewer than 40 qualify for the tax credits, Mr. Bozzella said.
Drivers are also worried about charging electric vehicles. There are currently 130,000 public electric vehicle charging stations in the United States, according to the White House. Under the 2021 infrastructure law, the government will spend $ 7.5 billion to build half a million electric vehicle charging stations along federal highways. But a January report from S&P Global concluded that the nation would need more than 2 million public charging stations by 2030, in addition to private home and garage chargers.
Doug Freeman, an insurance executive in Amesbury, Mass., is an obvious customer for an electric vehicle. He has a 140-mile round trip commute to work, and currently drives a Chevrolet Volt hybrid. "For me, the green side isn't number one on the priority list, but the savings on fuel from an electric vehicle would be a lot more than for the average consumer," he said.
But the model he covets, the Kia EV6, is not made in the United States and doesn't qualify for the $ 7,500 tax credit. "Without the credit, it's $ 50,000 to $ 54,000," Mr. Freeman said. "I've never paid more than about $ 33,000 for a car."
Electric vehicle makers are making use of one way to win over consumers: rentals. In 2021, Hertz, the car rental company, bought 100,000 Teslas, making E.V.s 20 percent of its fleet. Most other major car rental companies are also adding electric vehicles to their fleets.
"Rental cars are an excellent way to move E.V.s from niche to mainstream," said Drew Kodjak, executive director of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a research organization. "It offers consumers a way to test-drive electric vehicles for a few days, see if they like them, see how they feel about range anxiety," he said.
By purchasing American-made electric vehicles such as Teslas, the rental companies receive $ 7,500 in tax credits per car. And the Biden administration has made it easier for the rental companies to resell the cars after a few years: buyers can receive up to $ 4,000 in tax credits for the used electric cars.
"Through the incentives and the new laws, the administration has put in place a lot of policies to help automakers get where this regulation says they need to go," Ms. Brinley of S&P Global said.
Even if companies can churn out affordable electric vehicles at a fast pace, and consumers get over range anxiety, the proposed regulations are certain to be hit with legal challenges or be subject to shifting politics.
Mike Sommers, president of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents the oil and gas industry, called the regulations "a major step toward a ban on the vehicles Americans rely on."
"As proposed, this rule will hurt consumers with higher costs and greater reliance on unstable foreign supply chains," Mr. Sommers said.
Former President Donald J. Trump relished rolling back the auto pollution regulations enacted by his predecessor, Barack Obama. A future president could do the same to the Biden regulations.
A group of Republican attorneys general, many of them from oil-producing states, has already challenged several of the Biden administration's climate polices, none of which are as ambitious as the proposed auto pollution regulations.
Attorney General Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia suggested on Wednesday that the group would fight the newest proposals.
Steven G. Bradbury, who served as the chief legal counsel for the Transportation Department during the Trump administration, said the regulations would amount to government overreach.
"They are using this established, longstanding statute for an entirely new purpose, to force an entirely new goal: the transformation of the industry to electric vehicles," said Mr. Bradbury, a former clerk for Justice Clarence Thomas. "This is clearly driven by the president's directive to achieve these results. I don't think you can do this. Congress never contemplated the uses of statutes in this way."
Jody Freeman, a professor of environmental law at Harvard University, who also served as a climate adviser to President Barack Obama, argued that the Clean Air Act has been used successfully for years to compel polluting industries to invest in new technologies to reduce emissions.
"All of that is part of the normal course of how E.P.A. has set standards," she said.
But she conceded that it may not be seen that way by the current Supreme Court, consisting of six judges appointed by Republican presidents, including three named to the court by Mr. Trump.
"It is a court that is very unsympathetic to regulation of any kind, and particularly hostile to the E.P.A.," Ms. Freeman said.
Photograph The Biden administration hopes the future of the country's vehicle fleet is electric, but creating enough charging stations will pose an enormous obstacle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELSEY MCCLELLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Transportation is the single largest source of greenhouse gases generated by the United States, and President Biden has promised to cut the nation's emissions in half by 2030. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Anxiety; Consumers; Gases; Electric vehicles; Employment; Cost reduction; Profits; Trucks; Manufacturers; Presidents; Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Electric vehicle charging stations; Cost control; Rentals; Tax credits; Automobile sales

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Employment Cost reduction Profits Manufacturers Automobile industry Manufacturing Cost control Tax credits Automobile sales

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/13/climate/electric-vehicles-biden-epa.html

Title: Challenges Could Stall Biden's E.V. Revolution:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800446863

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/challenges-could-stall-bidens-e-v-revolution/docview/2800446863/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Biden Plans an Electric Vehicle Revolution. Now, the Hard Part.

Author: Davenport, Coral; Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Davenport, Coral; Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/biden-plans-electric-vehicle-revolution-now-hard/docview/2800350976/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — Aggressive rules proposed by the Biden administration to drastically speed up the country’s transition to electric vehicles, and significantly cut the auto pollution that is dangerously heating the planet, face several economic, logistical and legal challenges.
The plans, outlined Wednesday by the Environmental Protection Agency, are designed to ensure that two-thirds of new passenger cars and one-quarter of new heavy trucks sold in the United States are all-electric by 2032. If enacted as proposed, the regulations would mean a quantum leap for the auto industry in the United States, where just 5.8% of new cars and less than 2% of trucks sold last year were all-electric.
Transportation is the single largest source of greenhouse gases generated by the United States, the second-biggest polluting country after China. To head off climate catastrophe, President Joe Biden has promised to cut the nation’s emissions in half by 2030. Shrinking tailpipe emissions is key to that plan.
But to transform the American automobile industry on the scale it envisions, the Biden administration has to surmount resistance from manufacturers and consumers as well as likely legal challenges from those who consider the regulations government overreach.
One of the most important aspects of a wholesale transition to electric vehicles has to do with timing.
Although nearly every automaker has already invested billions in electrification, the proposed regulations create a dilemma: how to continue to manufacture gasoline-powered vehicles, which provide profits, while investing even more in new electric facilities. The aggressive timeline envisioned by the government means that carmakers could also struggle to source the materials required for vehicle batteries, already difficult to obtain.
Market demand is another challenge. Even with federal tax incentives of up to $7,500 for consumers, electric vehicles cost more upfront than conventional cars and trucks. At the end of 2022, the price of an average new car was $49,507 compared with $61,448 for an electric vehicle, according to the Kelley Blue Book. But even for motivated consumers who can afford electric vehicles, a major stumbling block is what’s known as range anxiety, the fear of being stranded because an electric vehicle cannot reach its destination on a single charge and not enough fast-charging stations exist.
“This was always a transformation that was going to happen over decades,” said Stephanie Brinley, an automotive analyst at S&P Global. “Putting this aggressive a timeline on it means that there are a lot of things that have to happen consecutively and concurrently.”
Looming over all of this is an all-but-certain legal and political threat: The new rules could be erased by the courts or a future president.
In many ways, the industry is already moving into an all-electric future. General Motors has set a goal of phasing out the sale of all internal combustion vehicles by 2035. Ford Motor has said it hopes EVs make up half of its sales by 2030. Volkswagen and Stellantis, the company formed through the merger of Fiat Chrysler and Peugeot, have similar targets. Hyundai and Nissan are also ramping up EV production.
But the proposed regulations would require even more of automakers.
Ford is on track to spend $50 billion from 2022 through 2026 on its electric vehicle production, with two battery factories under construction in Kentucky, and a third planned in Tennessee, along with an electric truck plant. In February it announced it would build a $3.5 billion battery plant in Michigan with a Chinese partner.
The automaker, however, will most likely need to spend billions more if electric vehicles are to make up two-thirds of the more than 2 million vehicles that it sells in North America annually.
The risks of accelerating the transition away from gasoline-powered vehicles are “high, if not very high,” for the industry, said Matthias Heck, a vice president at Moody’s Investors Service, “because electrification will require further substantial investments into new battery electric vehicles, battery technology, supply chain and manufacturing capacity, and charging infrastructure.”
Ford and other automakers also have not yet secured sufficient sources of lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese and other materials needed for automotive batteries, and it is unclear where they will get them.
While the Biden administration is betting that electric vehicle costs will come down with mass production, Carlos Tavares, the CEO of Stellantis, said the difficulty of sourcing materials worked against that. “The affordability is not there because the raw materials are scarce and very expensive, and, I would add, very volatile,” Tavares said at a recent conference in Detroit.
Manufacturers are funding their electric vehicle production now from substantial profits on their gas-powered trucks and sport utility vehicles. But maintaining profitability as they produce more electric vehicles and fewer gas-powered models will be a challenge, experts say.
GM has said it is not yet making money on its electric vehicles, and Ford recently said its electric division was set to lose $3 billion this year. Both companies hope to turn the corner as they ramp up production of electric models but are also trying to cut costs now, especially in view of the uncertain economy.
GM is in the process of eliminating 5,000 jobs as part of an effort to reduce costs by $2 billion. Ford last year began to trim about 3,000 jobs from its workforce.
“Getting to 50, 60% EVs is certainly possible,” said Sam Abuelsamid, a principal research analyst at Guidehouse Insights. “But this isn’t going to be easy. Not at all.”
And while the pace of electric vehicle purchases is ticking up, many car buyers are uncertain about the new technology.
“We’re making sales to early adopters and easy adopters, but we need to get beyond them,” said John Bozzella, president of the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, which represents large U.S. and foreign automakers. “We have a long way to go."
The most basic hurdle is price.
The federal government will offer buyers up to $7,500 in tax credits for the purchase of an electric vehicle for the next decade, depending on how much of the vehicle was made in the United States. But of the 91 unique electric vehicle models now on the market in the country, fewer than 40 qualify for the tax credits, Bozzella said.
Drivers are also worried about charging electric vehicles. There are currently 130,000 public electric vehicle charging stations in the United States, according to the White House. Under the 2021 infrastructure law, the government will spend $7.5 billion to build 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations along federal highways. But a January report from S&P Global concluded that the nation would need more than 2 million public charging stations by 2030, in addition to private home and garage chargers.
Doug Freeman, an insurance executive in Amesbury, Massachusetts, is an obvious customer for an electric vehicle. He has a 140-mile round-trip commute to work, and currently drives a Chevrolet Volt hybrid. “For me, the green side isn’t No. 1 on the priority list, but the savings on fuel from an electric vehicle would be a lot more than for the average consumer,” he said.
But the model he covets, the Kia EV6, is not made in the United States and doesn’t qualify for the $7,500 tax credit. “Without the credit, it’s $50,000 to $54,000,” Freeman said. “I’ve never paid more than about $33,000 for a car.”
Electric vehicle makers are making use of one way to win over consumers: rentals. In 2021, car rental company Hertz bought 100,000 Teslas, making EVs 20% of its fleet. Most other major car rental companies are also adding electric vehicles to their fleets.
“Rental cars are an excellent way to move EVs from niche to mainstream,” said Drew Kodjak, executive director of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a research organization. “It offers consumers a way to test-drive electric vehicles for a few days, see if they like them, see how they feel about range anxiety,” he said.
By purchasing American-made electric vehicles such as Teslas, the rental companies receive $7,500 in tax credits per car. And the Biden administration has made it easier for the rental companies to resell the cars after a few years: Buyers can receive up to $4,000 in tax credits for the used electric cars.
“Through the incentives and the new laws, the administration has put in place a lot of policies to help automakers get where this regulation says they need to go,” Brinley of S&P Global said.
Even if companies can churn out affordable electric vehicles at a fast pace, and consumers get over range anxiety, the proposed regulations are certain to be hit with legal challenges or be subject to shifting politics.
Mike Sommers, president of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents the oil and gas industry, called the regulations “a major step toward a ban on the vehicles Americans rely on.”
“As proposed, this rule will hurt consumers with higher costs and greater reliance on unstable foreign supply chains,” Sommers said.
President Donald Trump relished rolling back the auto pollution regulations enacted by his predecessor, Barack Obama. A future president could do the same to the Biden regulations.
A group of Republican attorneys general, many of them from oil-producing states, has already challenged several of the Biden administration’s climate polices, none of which are as ambitious as the proposed auto pollution regulations.
Attorney General Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia suggested Wednesday that the group would fight the newest proposals.
Steven G. Bradbury, who served as the chief legal counsel for the Transportation Department during the Trump administration, said the regulations would amount to government overreach.
“They are using this established, long-standing statute for an entirely new purpose, to force an entirely new goal: the transformation of the industry to electric vehicles,” said Bradbury, a former clerk for Justice Clarence Thomas. “This is clearly driven by the president’s directive to achieve these results. I don’t think you can do this. Congress never contemplated the uses of statutes in this way.”
Jody Freeman, a professor of environmental law at Harvard University, who also served as a climate adviser to Obama, argued that the Clean Air Act has been used successfully for years to compel polluting industries to invest in new technologies to reduce emissions.
“All of that is part of the normal course of how EPA has set standards,” she said.
But she conceded that it may not be seen that way by the current Supreme Court, consisting of six judges appointed by Republican presidents, including three named to the court by Trump.
“It is a court that is very unsympathetic to regulation of any kind, and particularly hostile to the EPA,” Freeman said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Anxiety; Consumers; Gases; Electric vehicles; Cost reduction; Profits; Trucks; Manufacturers; Presidents; Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Electric vehicle charging stations; Cost control; Rentals; Tax credits

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Cost reduction Profits Manufacturers Automobile industry Manufacturing Cost control Tax credits

Location: United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112

Identifier / keyword: Obama, Barack; Air Pollution; Peugeot Sa; Law And Legislation; Volkswagen Ag; Boudette, Neal E; Presidential Transition (Us); Harvard University; Massachusetts; Hyundai Motor Co; United States; Company Reports; American Petroleum Institute; Bradbury, Steven G; Kentucky; Automobiles; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Ford Motor Co; West Virginia; Courts And The Judiciary; General Motors; Personal Finances; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Nissan Motor Co; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Environmental Protection Agency; Decisions And Verdicts; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Pollution; United States Politics And Government; Thomas, Clarence; Global Warming; Michigan; Kelley Blue Book Co; Lithium (Metal); Detroit (Mich); Fuel Efficiency; Alliance For Automotive Innovation; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Automobile Service And Charging Stations; Factories And Manufacturing; Clean Air Act; Stellantis Nv; Batteries; Tavares, Carlos; Trump, Donald J; North America; Virginia; International Council On Clean Transportation; Supreme Court (Us); Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Tennessee; Fuel Emissions (Transportation); Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Colleges And Universities; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; American Jobs Plan (2021); United States Economy; Trucks And Trucking; Automobile Renting And Leasing; Transportation Department (Us); Infrastructure (Public Works); Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Biden Plans an Electric Vehicle Revolution. Now, the Hard Part.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 13, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-13T22:14:37Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800350976

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/biden-plans-electric-vehicle-revolution-now-hard/docview/2800350976/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What to Do With Your Tax Refund: Save for Emergencies: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Carrns, Ann

Publication info: Carrns, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-do-with-your-tax-refund-save-emergencies/docview/2797488912/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The average refund is down from last year, but still almost $ 3,000. One option experts recommend is stashing part of it for unexpected expenses.
The average federal income tax refund is smaller this year, but it's still almost $ 3,000. And for strapped taxpayers, that can provide a financial boost.
As of March 31, the average federal tax refund was $ 2,910, down 10 percent from $ 3,226 at the same time last year, according to the Internal Revenue Service. The drop is primarily the result of the end of more generous tax credits, which were temporarily expanded as part of the federal pandemic relief program.
For families of limited means, in particular, a tax refund is one of the few times they get a large lump sum of cash, and allocating the money wisely can help stabilize finances. "It's the single biggest payment these households will receive all year," said Stephen Roll, associate director of research at the Social Policy Institute at Washington University in St. Louis, who studies economic security.
Ideally, recipients can put at least part of their refund into an emergency savings account or pay down debt. Both are smart options, financial advisers say, considering that a recession is possible and that inflation, while easing, is still high enough to strain household budgets. A quarter of Americans have no emergency savings to cover short-term financial hardships, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
People often use their refunds to repay money borrowed for unexpected expenses, such as medical bills or car repairs -- and that's good, Dr. Roll said. Paying down double-digit credit card debt saves more than depositing the money in a savings account (even though rates are rising on high-yield savings accounts).
Setting aside some cash can help smooth out the effect of surprise bills or fluctuating income. "When -- not if -- the unexpected happens, they'll be prepared," said Cindy Scott, a certified financial planner with Schwab Intelligent Portfolios Premium, an automated investment service.
How best to do that? America Saves, a nonprofit initiative of the Consumer Federation of America, recommends the "past-present-future" approach (or the "30-40-30" approach, if you prefer numbers). The director of the nonprofit America Saves, Kia McCallister-Young, explained that it calls for allocating 30 percent of your refund to reduce your debt (spending from the past); 40 percent for current needs or wants, part of which can be allocated to emergencies; and 30 percent to your future -- for college or retirement savings, a down payment on a home, or even a well-deserved vacation.
Based on this year's average refund, that would mean about $ 870 to debt, $ 1,165 to your emergency fund and current spending, and about another $ 870 to the future. People can tweak the amounts, though, depending on their priorities. "You get to decide," Ms. McCallister-Young said.
Some savers may be overwhelmed by the idea of trying to accumulate a lot of money in savings when their paycheck may barely cover the basics. Standard rules of thumb call for a rainy-day fund that would cover at least three months' worth of income or expenses, like housing, food and transportation. Dr. Roll said it might be less daunting to start smaller -- say, aiming to save six weeks' worth of income and using your refund to build toward that goal.
When filing your tax return, you can direct the I.R.S. to split your refund between different accounts. You can, for instance, deposit part in a spending account and part in a savings account. By committing to the savings when you file your return, you'll be less tempted to spend the money.
Reframing how you think about savings can also help. Think of it as "paying your future self," Dr. Roll said, instead of money that you can't spend -- and envision how you'll feel months from now when a financial need arises. "How will your future self feel," he said, "if you have that money on hand?"
Once you've set aside the cash, he said, don't be afraid to use it if you need it: "Those funds are there to be spent."
Here are some questions and answers about managing refunds and tax time:
When is the tax filing deadline this year?
The federal filing deadline for most Americans is April 18. But the I.R.S. has extended the deadline for people living in areas hit by recent natural disasters. Residents recently affected by severe storms and tornadoes in parts of Mississippi and Arkansas, for example, have until July 31.
What if I want more money in my paycheck instead of getting a large refund next year?
Some people use refunds as a forced savings tool by intentionally "over-withholding" taxes from their paycheck. But if you want to have more cash to pay expenses throughout the year, you can adjust the amount of tax withheld. Ms. Scott at Schwab suggested using the I.R.S.'s online withholding estimator to calculate the right amount. Then, use that information to fill out I.R.S. Form W-4 and give it to your employer.
(If you're confused, she said, consider seeking professional advice to avoid the opposite problem. If you have too little tax withheld, you may have to write a check at tax time next year.)
Where can I get free help with my tax return?
The charitable arm of AARP, the advocacy group for older Americans, offers free, volunteer tax preparation through its Tax-Aide program through April 18. While the service focuses on people 50 and older with low or moderate incomes, anyone is eligible for help. For details, check the AARP Foundation Tax-Aide website. The I.R.S. offers its Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program, or VITA, for people with incomes of $ 60,000 or less, as well as those with disabilities or who speak limited English. You can search for locations online.
If you're comfortable doing your own return, the I.R.S. offers options through its Free File program; free online tax software is available for people with income of $ 73,000 or less, and free online forms are available to anyone.
If you need help with issues other than filing a return, like possible identity theft, the I.R.S. is offering walk-in help with no appointment needed at some of its Taxpayer Assistance Centers on Saturday, April 8, and Saturday, May 13. For details and to find locations near you, check the agency's website.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Savings accounts; Tax returns; Tax refunds; Income taxes

Business indexing term: Subject: Savings accounts Tax returns Tax refunds Income taxes

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/07/your-money/tax-refund-tips.html

Title: What to Do With Your Tax Refund: Save for Emergencies:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 8, 2023

column: Your Money Adviser

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2797488912

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-do-with-your-tax-refund-save-emergencies/docview/2797488912/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright Ne w York Times Company Apr 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fewer E.V.s Will Qualify For Credits: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Swanson, Ana; Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Swanson, Ana; Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fewer-e-v-s-will-qualify-credits/docview/2793301287/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Biden administration hopes its guidelines for up to $ 7,500 in tax credits will encourage automakers to reduce their reliance on China for batteries and raw materials.
The Biden administration on Friday released new rules that will significantly shorten the list of electric vehicles that qualify for federal tax credits. Officials hope the change will push carmakers to move their supply chains out of China and to the United States or its allies.
The rules, issued by the Treasury Department, are a result of the Inflation Reduction Act, which Democrats passed last year to fight climate change by encouraging the use of zero-emission vehicles and green energy. The law also seeks to reduce the industry's reliance on China, which makes most of the world's batteries and dominates the processing of critical raw materials.
For purchases of their electric cars to qualify for up to $ 7,500 in tax credits, automakers must meet strict requirements for where they assemble the cars and batteries and where they get the materials that go into batteries. Only a handful of vehicles are expected to qualify for the full credit when the rules, which are more stringent than previous requirements, go into effect April 18, down from 21 now.
The new rules, which could be revised in response to comments from the public, will require that a certain percentage of the components and minerals in each electric car's battery come from domestic sources or countries with which the United States has trade agreements.
The full list of qualifying cars will not be published for a couple of weeks, but Tesla has begun informing buyers that the changes would affect its lineup. The company said on its website that the least expensive version of its Model 3 sedan, one of the most popular electric cars, would no longer be eligible for the full credit. The car uses a battery made in China.
General Motors said Friday that three electric vehicles it plans to sell this year -- the Cadillac Lyriq and electric versions of the Chevrolet Equinox and Blazer sport utility vehicles -- would qualify for the full credit.
James M. Wickett, a partner at Hogan Lovells who focuses on tax and energy policy, said the electric vehicle tax credit was "moving supply chains, to the tune of tens of billions."
"The details matter in a significant way," he added.
One significant detail on Friday expanded the program to include battery minerals from Japan and paved the way for adding more countries, such as the 27 members of the European Union.
Officials in the United States, Europe and elsewhere have also begun discussing plans to build a kind of buyers' club for critical minerals that could exert pressure over the global industry, including setting higher labor and environmental standards for mining, processing and manufacturing.
The race is on for manufacturers whose vehicles don't qualify for the U.S. tax credits to procure the minerals and components that will satisfy the requirements. The credit awards a significant competitive advantage to any car that makes the grade.
To be eligible, at least 50 percent of the components in an electric car battery must be made in North America. And 40 percent of the minerals used to make the batteries, which often contain nickel, manganese and cobalt, must come from domestic sources or from countries that have trade agreements with the United States. The minerals quota will rise every year until it reaches 80 percent by 2027, and the component quota will climb to 100 percent in 2029.
The administration said it would later issue rules clarifying how much investment that companies could receive from countries like China and Russia and still qualify for tax credits. The law includes prohibitions on using critical minerals and battery components from a "foreign entity of concern," a term that includes companies based in China, Russia, North Korea and Iran.
Siyu Huang, the chief executive of Factorial Energy, a Massachusetts company that is developing advanced batteries with backing from Mercedes-Benz, Hyundai and Stellantis, welcomed the trade agreement with Japan. But she said it would be "very challenging" to acquire battery-grade lithium because almost all the refineries are in China.
"The critical part of this is really about where the lithium is coming from," Ms. Huang said.
In writing the rules, Biden officials have tried to balance two priorities: Encouraging Americans to buy cleaner cars to mitigate climate change, and trying to bring more factories for cars, batteries and battery materials to the United States and its allies.
Company executives, and some analysts, said the administration had come down on the side of the latter goal. Given the limited number of vehicles that currently qualify for tax credits, some consumers could decide to wait to buy an electric car until more become eligible in a few years, said William Reinsch, the Scholl Chair in International Business at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington think tank.
"What always happens if people are uncertain is they hold on to their wallets," Mr. Reinsch said.
Jennifer Safavian, the chief executive of Autos Drive America, which represents foreign carmakers like Toyota, Honda and Volkswagen, welcomed Japan's inclusion and said it would help strengthen supply chains. Yet, she added, the drop in the number of eligible cars would slow the growth of electric cars.
But some lawmakers complain the Biden administration has been too generous to foreign companies. Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a pivotal player in the Inflation Reduction Act's writing and passage, said this week that he may bring a court case challenging the administration's interpretation of the law.
In a statement Friday, Mr. Manchin said that the Treasury Department's guidance "completely ignores the intent" of the act.
"It is horrific that the administration continues to ignore the purpose of the law, which is to bring manufacturing back to America and ensure we have reliable and secure supply chains," he said. "American tax dollars should not be used to support manufacturing jobs overseas."
The legislation has already shaken up the car industry. Immediately after President Biden signed the bill in August, a provision excluded from the tax credits any electric vehicles not made in the United States, Mexico or Canada.
Hyundai and Kia cars made in South Korea no longer qualified, angering that nation's leaders, who felt betrayed by a close military and trade partner. Sales of South Korean-made electric vehicles have since lost market share in the United States.
The law also proved to be a major source of friction diplomatically. Leaders of the European Union, Japan and other U.S. allies feared the program would lure investment away from their countries or force them to offer more generous subsidies to compete with the United States.
Because the European Union, Japan and Britain do not have free-trade agreements with the United States, products from those countries, including battery materials, did not qualify for any portion of the tax credits.
Under pressure from foreign governments, the Biden administration proposed a workaround. In a news release, the Treasury Department said the law did not define the term "free trade agreement," which "could include newly negotiated critical minerals agreements." The Biden administration signed a limited trade deal with Japan on Tuesday covering critical minerals, and is negotiating a similar deal with the European Union.
But the strategy has been strongly criticized by lawmakers in Congress, who have said the administration failed to consult with them on trade policy, or argue that U.S. taxpayer money will now subsidize Japanese industry.
For consumers, the new rules are likely to make many electric vehicles more expensive.
At least some Tesla vehicles are likely to remain eligible. The company makes cars in California and Texas and batteries in Nevada. Ford Motor said it would "soon" disclose whether any of its vehicles qualify.
Carmakers will have to certify whether their vehicles meet the components and minerals requirements. The Internal Revenue Service will enforce the rules. Some vehicles may qualify for only half the credit if, for example, they meet the component quotas but not the minerals quotas.
The list of eligible cars is expected to grow as it becomes easier for companies to buy processed lithium and other materials from U.S. trade partners like Canada and Australia. Numerous companies are developing mines and building refineries. More cars will also qualify once Hyundai, Ford, Honda and other automakers finish building new car and battery plants in the United States.
And a loophole in the law allows companies to collect the credits if they lease vehicles to customers, even if the cars don't meet sourcing and manufacturing requirements. Automakers and their dealers could pass on those credits to consumers by reducing monthly lease payments.
Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.
Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.
Photograph Some Tesla vehicles are likely to remain eligible for federal tax credits because the company makes cars in California and Texas and batteries in Nevada. Above, a Model X. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGER KISBY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Strategic materials; Raw materials; Competitive advantage; Trade agreements; Electric vehicles; Supply chains; Automobile industry; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Manufacturing; Tax credits; Lithium

Business indexing term: Subject: Competitive advantage Trade agreements Supply chains Automobile industry Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Manufacturing Tax credits

Location: Texas; Russia; United States--US; Canada; China; California; Nevada; Japan

Company / organization: Name: European Union; NAICS: 926110, 928120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/business/energy-environment/electric-vehicles-treasury-tax-credits.html

Title: Fewer E.V. s Will Qualify For Credits:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793301287

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fewer-e-v-s-will-qualify-credits/docview/2793301287/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gamecocks' Multitalented Star: Scholar, Activist and Evangelist of the Game: [Sports Desk]

Author: Longman, Jeré

Publication info: Longman, Jeré. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gamecocks-multitalented-star-scholar-activist/docview/2790225899/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "I've never coached anybody that comes with that much determination," Coach Dawn Staley said of Laeticia Amihere.
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- In the first two rounds of the women's N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, it became clear why Dawn Staley calls Laeticia Amihere the most versatile player she has ever coached at South Carolina.
A lithe, 6-foot-4-inch reserve forward, Amihere, 21, can play and defend all five positions on the court. Against Norfolk State and South Florida in the opening rounds, she shadowed point guards above the 3-point line, guarded forwards on the wing, led the fast break and slashed into the lane for jumpers and follow shots. At one point, she emphatically swatted a shot at one end of the floor and sprinted with the elegant stride of an 400-meter runner for a layup on the other end.
"It's not like there's a drop-off no matter what position that she plays," Staley said. "I've never coached anybody that comes with that much determination. Put her anywhere."
Amihere's basketball career, beset early by knee injuries sustained in high school outside of Toronto and later by family bereavement, has flourished of late: She was a member of Canada's Olympic team at the 2021 Tokyo Games and of the 2022 national championship team at South Carolina. She has been an activist for equal treatment of female players by the N.C.A.A. And she is the founder of a nonprofit designed to spread the sport to underserved youth in Canada and in West Africa, from which her parents emigrated. A senior, she is pursuing a master's degree in sport and entertainment management.
On Saturday, top-ranked South Carolina (34-0) continues its heavily favored march toward a second consecutive national championship. It will face U.C.L.A. (27-9) in a regional semifinal in Greenville, S.C., which is effectively a second home for the Gamecocks.
In early March, when South Carolina won the Southeastern Conference tournament in Greenville, forward Aliyah Boston, the reigning national player of the year, was named the most valuable player. But she graciously gave her trophy to Amihere, who delivered 37 points and 13 rebounds in the team's three SEC tournament games.
"The entire tournament she was dominating," Boston said. "I felt she deserved to be recognized."
Early this season, South Carolina faced U.C.L.A. at home in Columbia. The game remained tied after three quarters before the Gamecocks held the Bruins to three field goals in the final 10 minutes and pulled away to win, 73-64. It was emblematic of South Carolina's familiar relentlessness, smothering defense and refusal to panic.
Particularly imposing is the size, agility and depth of its front line. There often appears to be little decline when the starters -- Boston, who is 6-foot-5, and Victaria Saxton, who is 6-foot-2 -- are given breathers by the 6-foot-7 Kamilla Cardoso, a mobile scorer, rebounder and shot blocker, and by Amihere, who plays with graceful efficiency.
Amihere shoehorned 11 points, 2 rebounds, 2 steals and 2 blocks into 16-plus minutes against Norfolk State, and 10 points, 6 rebounds and 1 block into 15-plus minutes against South Florida.
In the first and second rounds, South Carolina's bench outscored its opponents' reserves by a combined 71-8.
"They come at you in waves," South Florida Coach Jose Fernandez said.
A native of Mississauga, Ontario, which neighbors Toronto, Amihere played soccer and ran track as a young girl, which helped her footwork and agility, but she did not play basketball until the sixth or seventh grade. Tall and gangly, she said she felt socially awkward. She grew tired of being asked whether she played basketball and took up the sport just to be able to say yes.
"I was kind of embarrassed being tall," Amihere said. "But when I started playing basketball, I came into my body. There weren't a lot of tall women around me before that. It gave me that confidence."
Still only 14, she became the leading rebounder and shot-blocker at the 2016 under-17 world championships. At 15, she was credited as the first Canadian woman to dunk during a game. At the Tokyo Olympics, Amihere hoped to face the United States and Staley, its coach, but Canada did not reach the knockout rounds. Until then, Amihere said with a laugh, Staley kept messaging her, saying, "I'm cheering for you until we play each other."
Her college choice was made, in part, in 2017, while Amihere watched Kia Nurse, a fellow Canadian, play for Connecticut in the Final Four as Mississippi State ended the Huskies' 111-game winning streak and scuttled any chance they'd win a fifth consecutive national title. Two days later, South Carolina defeated Mississippi State and cut down the nets with its first championship.
Amihere wanted to play for a team that could beat UConn, and did in the 2022 national title game.
"A lot of people were thinking the same thing, and we all came to South Carolina," Amihere said. "Now everybody wants to beat South Carolina. We're actually more excited this go-around, but it's harder to win twice in a row. Everybody's gunning for you."
After the N.C.A.A.'s discriminatory treatment of female basketball players was exposed during the 2021 tournaments, Amihere, at Staley's urging, used a student advisory committee to advocate such gender-equity upgrades as having the same number of women's teams in the field -- 68 -- as in the men's bracket.
Last summer, Amihere traveled to the Ivory Coast, the home country of her mother, Georgette, to conduct basketball clinics for girls. Her work there was for a nonprofit she founded called Back to the Motherland. The challenge, Amihere said, is overcoming cultural barriers and "just really trying to expose to them that you can be more than a traditional woman who cooks and cleans."
She plans to continue her nonprofit work while playing professionally, to pay forward the help others gave her in high school: A coach who paid her fees to play on a travel team. Her aunt and godmother, Olga Lambert, who drove her to basketball practice regularly, an hour or more each way, while undergoing chemotherapy for breast cancer. Lambert died in October 2022 at age 62. (An older brother, Kofi, died last August at age 30.)
When she considered giving up basketball after two serious knee injuries in high school, Amihere said, her aunt's encouragement and brave struggle inspired her to keep playing. Now she wears pink sneakers in her aunt's honor, marked with "Tante Olga" and "Superwoman."
"She's always been my No. 1 motivation," Amihere said. "I can't let up because of that."
Photograph Laeticia Amihere, a 6-foot-4 reserve forward, can play and defend all five positions on the court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELL REDMOND/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B7.

ERIC Subject: Team Sports; High Schools; Females; College Choice; Grade 7

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Women; High school basketball; Sports injuries

Location: South Carolina; United States--US; Canada; South Florida; Mississippi

People: Staley, Dawn

Company / organization: Name: National Collegiate Athletic Association--NCAA; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/23/sports/ncaabasketball/south-carolina-laeticia-amihere.html

Title: Gamecocks' Multitalented Star: Scholar, Activist and Evangelist of the Game:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790225899

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gamecocks-multitalented-star-scholar-activist/docview/2790225899/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2788643844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: AUTOMOTIVE
Hyundai and Kia Urged
To Fix Theft Vulnerability
A group of 22 U.S. state attorneys general on Monday urged Hyundai Motor and Kia to do more to address millions of U.S. vehicles that are prone to theft.
Last month, the South Korean automakers said they would offer software upgrades to 8.3 million U.S. vehicles to help curb increasing car thefts using a method popularized on TikTok and other social media channels.
The states and the District of Columbia, led by Wisconsin's attorney general, Joshua Kaul, said the automakers had failed to take adequate steps to address the alarming rate of theft and urged them to accelerate the implementation of the software upgrade and provide free alternative protective measures for owners whose cars cannot support the software upgrade.
Hyundai and Kia did not immediately provide a response to a request for comment.
"The surge in thefts of these vulnerable vehicles has been truly shocking," said the letter. REUTERS
POLICY
Rideshare Firms Question Dept. of Labor Nominee
Rideshare and delivery companies want the Biden administration's nominee for the Department of Labor, Julie Su, right, to clarify her position on an incoming worker-classification rule that could expand workers' rights, a trade group representing the companies said on Monday.
The Department of Labor in October proposed a rule that would make it more difficult for companies to treat workers as independent contractors, which would shake up ride-hailing, delivery and other industries that rely on gig workers.
The Flex Association, which represents companies such as Uber and Lyft, sent a letter to Biden on Monday asking that Ms. Su explain how she would implement the proposed rule in a "manner that protects independent work."
The group this month said Ms. Su's record on flexible work was "troubling" and called for a "meticulous review" of her record in the Senate confirmation process.
The final worker classification rule is expected this year.
REUTERS
COMPANIES
New C.E.O. of Starbucks
Officially Takes the Reins
Starbucks said Monday that Laxman Narasimhan has assumed the role of C.E.O. and joined the company's board of directors. Mr. Narasimhan succeeds longtime Starbucks leader Howard Schultz, who came out of retirement last spring to serve as interim chief.
Mr. Schultz will remain on the company's board.
Mr. Narasimhan, 55, most recently served as C.E.O. of Reckitt, a U.K.-based consumer health, hygiene and nutrition company. Before that he was a longtime executive at Pepsico.
Since he was named incoming C.E.O. last September, Mr. Narasimhan has traveled to more than 30 stores, manufacturing plants and support centers around the world, the company said.
The company posted record sales in its most recent quarter, which ended Jan. 1. But Mr. Schultz also faced a growing unionization effort at its U.S. stores, which the company opposes.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Reuters and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Nominations; Workers; Theft; Automobile industry; Software upgrading; Robbery

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Automobile industry

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/20/business/21bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 21, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2788643844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2788643844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Epidemic of Car Thefts Has Link to Viral Videos: [National Desk]

Author: Arango, Tim; Fortin, Jacey

Publication info: Arango, Tim; Fortin, Jacey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/epidemic-car-thefts-has-link-viral-videos/docview/2785847640/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Violent crime is largely receding from pandemic highs, but cities face a surge in car thefts, driven in part by videos that show how to hot-wire models by Kia and Hyundai.
One of the busiest places in Memphis these days is the impound lot north of downtown, where tow-truck drivers can sit in line for over six hours to make drop-offs, victims can wait weeks to get stolen vehicles back and some 2,700 cars are squeezed onto the grounds of an old farm-equipment factory.
The overcrowding is the result in part of an auto theft boom that has gripped Memphis and other U.S. cities. Vehicles from two manufacturers, Kia and Hyundai, have proven especially vulnerable to theft, prompting cities to file lawsuits against the carmakers and at least one state's attorney general to open an investigation.
Of the nearly 11,000 cars stolen in Memphis last year -- about twice as many as in 2021 -- roughly a third were late-model Kias and Hyundais, according to the police. It doesn't take much to rip them off: just a screwdriver, a USB cord and hot-wiring know-how found in videos proliferating on social media.
Many of the culprits are teenagers or young adults stealing cars for kicks or to use them for other crimes, such as robberies, the police say. More than half of the 175 people arrested and accused of car theft this year in Memphis were teenagers, who often abandon the vehicles after a joyride.
"We know that a lot of our young people are breaking into cars and stealing cars as almost a dare, or a trend, right now," Cerelyn J. Davis, the Memphis police chief, told the City Council at a recent meeting. "They are finding it easy to do."
American cities have faced a rise in car thefts during the coronavirus pandemic. Some other categories of crime, including homicides and aggravated assaults, rose nationally in 2020 and 2021 and then declined somewhat last year, though they remain above prepandemic levels, according to data collected by the nonpartisan Council on Criminal Justice.
But auto thefts have continued to rise, even as other forms of lawbreaking have leveled out or fallen.
Early in the pandemic, experts who study crime say, more vehicles were stolen partly because people were staying home: Cars were left on streets during the day, rather than in secure parking lots near offices. But the surge has continued, fueled in part by social media videos that show, step by step, how to steal Kias and Hyundais that are not equipped with an engine immobilizer -- an electronic security device that keeps a car from being started without a key.
"All you had to do was put something on TikTok, how to steal these cars, and they started getting stolen left and right," said Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, at a news conference last week in Buffalo, where he brandished a USB cord while standing next to recent auto theft victims.
The two Korean car brands, part of the same conglomerate, are increasingly popular in America, accounting for about a 10th of U.S. auto sales last year. They recently issued statements saying they had fixed the problem that makes their vehicles relatively easy to steal in their latest models, and were introducing free software upgrades for vulnerable cars -- about 4.5 million Kias and 3.8 million Hyundais, the federal government estimated.
At the same time, the companies have shipped steering wheel locks to police departments across the country, to be provided free of charge to car owners who drive at-risk models. And executives say they are constantly monitoring TikTok and YouTube for new videos that show how to steal their vehicles, and then alerting the social media companies so those videos can be removed. Kia said in a statement that it was "committed to supporting law enforcement and owners in addressing these crimes."
Representatives for YouTube and TikTok said the companies had removed several videos related to what is known as the "Kia Challenge" in recent months. YouTube said in a statement that it might allow some of the videos to remain if "they're meant to be educational, documentary, scientific or artistic." A TikTok spokesman said the social network "does not condone this behavior, which violates our policies and will be removed if found on our platform."
Julie Garcia of San Antonio said she knew her Kia Sportage was vulnerable to theft, but she hoped it would not be attractive to thieves because the rear bumper was damaged. She also parked in view of security cameras whenever she could.
"It's a scary feeling," she said, "not knowing if your car's going to be there or not."
But on an afternoon in late December, Ms. Garcia found shards of glass on the ground where she had parked. It took the police two days to track down her Sportage. When she retrieved it, she found her steering column ripped apart, a window smashed and trash, including deli meat, strewn inside.
James Lint, a lieutenant with the San Antonio Police Department, said such destruction was common among stolen vehicles. "It's not often we get them back in good condition," he said. "They are torn up, ripped up, marked on, painted on."
Ms. Garcia, 31, is now warning anyone she knows who owns a Kia.
"I'm just trying to spread awareness," she said. "Because I don't want what happened to me to happen to somebody else."
Officials say the social media-driven rise in Kia and Hyundai thefts began about two years ago in Milwaukee, and then spread nationwide. City attorneys for Seattle and Columbus recently sued the automakers for not installing anti-theft technology, and other cities, including Cleveland, Milwaukee and St. Louis, have threatened litigation.
This week, Minnesota's attorney general, Keith Ellison, said he was investigating whether the companies had violated his state's consumer protection and public nuisance laws. "The drastic increase in Kia and Hyundai vehicle thefts is continuing to threaten public safety and do serious harm to our communities," he said in a statement.
The car-theft surge has been the most persistent and wide-ranging crime trend in America during the pandemic, affecting jurisdictions large and small.
In the 30 major cities examined by the Council on Criminal Justice, motor vehicle thefts were up 21 percent last year from 2021 -- resulting in an estimated 37,560 more stolen cars in those places. This followed double-digit increases in 2020 and 2021. (Carjackings, categorized as a violent crime and counted separately, have also risen in some cities.)
Richard Rosenfeld, a criminologist at the University of Missouri and the lead author of the council's report, said the social media phenomenon was only part of the problem. "There is no definitive explanation for this large and sustained increase in motor vehicle theft," he said. "It seems, in my view, to have taken on the characteristic of something like a contagion."
Sometimes, officials say, the stolen cars are linked to other crimes, deadly crashes and even vigilantism, as car-theft victims take matters into their own hands after locating their vehicles with trackers.
In St. Louis last year, the drivers of two stolen cars -- one a Hyundai, the other a Kia -- were involved in a shootout at a busy intersection near downtown, leaving a 17-year-old with a gunshot wound. And a woman in St. Louis County was charged with murder after the police said she tracked down her stolen Hyundai in late December and killed two men.
In Buffalo, four teenagers riding in a stolen Kia were killed in October when they crashed into a wall on an expressway and flew through the car's glass roof. And Mr. Ellison, the Minnesota attorney general, said that stolen Kias and Hyundais in Minneapolis were linked to five homicides, 13 shootings, 36 robberies and 265 vehicle accidents last year.
Columbus, which has sued both carmakers to recoup the costs in city resources devoted to dealing with the rise in thefts, is seeing an average of 17 Kias and Hyundais stolen each day, said Zach Klein, the city attorney.
"These are used cars that a lot of retail and middle-class workers drive," he said, adding that there was "this cascading effect not only to law enforcement that are dealing with it but also to the everyday citizens in our community that are the victims of these crimes and then don't have an alternative vehicle to get to work."
Owners of Kias and Hyundais have taken to cautioning one another to be on the lookout. On the week before Christmas, Tylar Talkington was leaving her apartment in Phoenix to buy ice cream when she found her Kia Soul missing. On the ground where she had parked it was a grapefruit-size rock amid shards of glass.
Ms. Talkington, 33, filed a police report. When she told her family what had happened, she learned about the social media trend. "I guess there's a TikTok challenge going around -- the Kia boys, they call themselves -- just showing you how to commit grand theft auto, online," she said.
She left a note on a neighbor's Kia, warning her about the theft. The next night, after retrieving her car, with its steering column ripped open and its interior a mess, Ms. Talkington saw that her neighbor's car was missing.
"There was another police car in the apartment complex," she said. "And a pile of broken glass where my neighbor's car should have been."
Photograph SkyCops are in many parking lots after nearly 11,000 cars were stolen in Memphis last year, about twice as many as in 2021. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY GARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Automobile theft; Robbery; Murders & murder attempts; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Minnesota

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/us/car-thefts-kia-challenge-tiktok.html

Title: Epidemic of Car Thefts Has Link to Viral Videos:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847640

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/epidemic-car-thefts-has-link-viral-videos/docview/2785847640/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Teens Are Stealing More Cars. They Learn How on Social Media.

Author: Arango, Tim; Fortin, Jacey

Publication info: Arango, Tim; Fortin, Jacey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teens-are-stealing-more-cars-they-learn-how-on/docview/2785172987/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
One of the busiest places in Memphis, Tennessee, these days is the impound lot north of downtown, where tow-truck drivers can sit in line for more than six hours to make drop-offs, victims can wait weeks to get stolen vehicles back and some 2,700 cars are squeezed onto the grounds of an old farm-equipment factory.
The overcrowding is the result in part of an auto theft boom that has gripped Memphis and other U.S. cities. Vehicles from two manufacturers, Kia and Hyundai, have proved especially vulnerable to theft, prompting cities to file lawsuits against the carmakers and at least one state’s attorney general to open an investigation.
Of the nearly 11,000 cars stolen in Memphis last year — about twice as many as in 2021 — roughly one-third were late-model Kias and Hyundais, according to police. It doesn’t take much to rip them off: just a screwdriver, a USB cord and hot-wiring know-how found in videos proliferating on social media.
Many of the culprits are teenagers or young adults stealing cars for kicks or to use them for other crimes, such as robberies, police say. More than half of the 175 people arrested and accused of car theft this year in Memphis were teenagers, who often abandon the vehicles after a joyride.
“We know that a lot of our young people are breaking into cars and stealing cars as almost a dare, or a trend, right now,” Cerelyn J. Davis, the Memphis police chief, told the City Council at a recent meeting. “They are finding it easy to do.”
U.S. cities have faced a rise in car thefts during the coronavirus pandemic. Some other categories of crime, including homicides and aggravated assaults, rose nationally in 2020 and 2021 and then declined somewhat last year, though they remain above prepandemic levels, according to data collected by the nonpartisan Council on Criminal Justice.
But auto thefts have continued to rise, even as other forms of lawbreaking have leveled out or fallen.
Early in the pandemic, experts who study crime say, more vehicles were stolen partly because people were staying home: Cars were left on streets during the day, rather than in secure parking lots near offices. But the surge has continued, fueled in part by social media videos that show, step by step, how to steal Kias and Hyundais that are not equipped with an engine immobilizer — an electronic security device that keeps a car from being started without a key.
“All you had to do was put something on TikTok, how to steal these cars, and they started getting stolen left and right,” Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said at a news conference last week in Buffalo, New York, where he brandished a USB cord while standing next to recent auto theft victims.
The two Korean car brands, part of the same conglomerate, are increasingly popular in America, accounting for about one-tenth of U.S. auto sales last year. They recently issued statements saying they had fixed the problem that makes their vehicles relatively easy to steal in their latest models, and were introducing free software upgrades for vulnerable cars — about 4.5 million Kias and 3.8 million Hyundais, the federal government estimated.
At the same time, the companies have shipped steering wheel locks to police departments across the country, to be provided free of charge to car owners who drive at-risk models. And executives say they are constantly monitoring TikTok and YouTube for new videos that show how to steal their vehicles, and then alerting the social media companies so those videos can be removed. Kia said in a statement that it was “committed to supporting law enforcement and owners in addressing these crimes.”
Representatives for YouTube and TikTok said the companies had removed several videos related to what is known as the “Kia Challenge” in recent months. YouTube said in a statement that it might allow some of the videos to remain if “they’re meant to be educational, documentary, scientific or artistic.” A TikTok spokesperson said the social network “does not condone this behavior, which violates our policies and will be removed if found on our platform.”
Julie Garcia of San Antonio said she knew her Kia Sportage was vulnerable to theft, but she hoped it would not be attractive to thieves because the rear bumper was damaged. She also parked in view of security cameras whenever she could.
“It’s a scary feeling,” she said, “not knowing if your car’s going to be there or not.”
But on an afternoon in late December, Garcia found shards of glass on the ground where she had parked. It took the police two days to track down her Sportage. When she retrieved it, she found her steering column ripped apart, a window smashed and trash, including deli meat, strewn inside.
James Lint, a lieutenant with the San Antonio Police Department, said such destruction was common among stolen vehicles. “It’s not often we get them back in good condition,” he said. “They are torn up, ripped up, marked on, painted on.”
Garcia, 31, is now warning anyone she knows who owns a Kia.
“I’m just trying to spread awareness,” she said. “Because I don’t want what happened to me to happen to somebody else.”
Officials say the social media-driven rise in Kia and Hyundai thefts began about two years ago in Milwaukee, and then spread nationwide. City attorneys for Seattle and Columbus, Ohio, recently sued the automakers for not installing anti-theft technology, and other cities, including Cleveland, Milwaukee and St. Louis, have threatened litigation.
This week, Minnesota’s attorney general, Keith Ellison, said he was investigating whether the companies had violated his state’s consumer protection and public nuisance laws. “The drastic increase in Kia and Hyundai vehicle thefts is continuing to threaten public safety and do serious harm to our communities,” he said in a statement.
The car-theft surge has been the most persistent and wide-ranging crime trend in America during the pandemic, affecting jurisdictions large and small.
In the 30 major cities examined by the Council on Criminal Justice, motor vehicle thefts were up 21% last year from 2021 — resulting in an estimated 37,560 more stolen cars in those places. This followed double-digit increases in 2020 and 2021. (Carjackings, categorized as a violent crime and counted separately, have also risen in some cities.)
Richard Rosenfeld, a criminologist at the University of Missouri and the lead author of the council’s report, said the social media phenomenon was only part of the problem. “There is no definitive explanation for this large and sustained increase in motor vehicle theft,” he said. “It seems, in my view, to have taken on the characteristic of something like a contagion.”
Sometimes, officials say, the stolen cars are linked to other crimes, deadly crashes and even vigilantism, as car-theft victims take matters into their own hands after locating their vehicles with trackers.
In St. Louis last year, the drivers of two stolen cars — one a Hyundai, the other a Kia — were involved in a shootout at a busy intersection near downtown, leaving a 17-year-old with a gunshot wound. And a woman in St. Louis County was charged with murder after police said she tracked down her stolen Hyundai in late December and killed two men.
In Buffalo, four teenagers riding in a stolen Kia were killed in October when they crashed into a wall on an expressway and flew through the car’s glass roof. And Ellison, the Minnesota attorney general, said that stolen Kias and Hyundais in Minneapolis were linked to five homicides, 13 shootings, 36 robberies and 265 vehicle accidents last year.
Columbus, which has sued both carmakers to recoup the costs in city resources devoted to dealing with the rise in thefts, is seeing an average of 17 Kias and Hyundais stolen each day, said Zach Klein, the city attorney.
“These are used cars that a lot of retail and middle-class workers drive,” he said, adding that there was “this cascading effect not only to law enforcement that are dealing with it but also to the everyday citizens in our community that are the victims of these crimes and then don’t have an alternative vehicle to get to work.”
Owners of Kias and Hyundais have taken to cautioning one another to be on the lookout. On the week before Christmas, Tylar Talkington was leaving her apartment in Phoenix to buy ice cream when she found her Kia Soul missing. On the ground where she had parked it was a grapefruit-size rock amid shards of glass.
Talkington, 33, filed a police report. When she told her family what had happened, she learned about the social media trend. “I guess there’s a TikTok challenge going around — the Kia boys, they call themselves — just showing you how to commit grand theft auto, online,” she said.
She left a note on a neighbor’s Kia, warning her about the theft. The next night, after retrieving her car, with its steering column ripped open and its interior a mess, Talkington saw that her neighbor’s car was missing.
“There was another police car in the apartment complex,” she said. “And a pile of broken glass where my neighbor’s car should have been.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile theft; Robbery; Murders & murder attempts; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Minnesota

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Schumer, Charles E; Arango, Tim; Missouri; Minneapolis (Minn); St Louis County (Mo); South Korea; Ohio; Ellison, Keith; Davis, Cerelyn J; University Of Missouri; Phoenix (Ariz); Cleveland (Ohio); Columbus (Ohio); Council On Criminal Justice; Tennessee; Milwaukee (Wis); United States; Minnesota; New York State; Buffalo (Ny); YoutubeCom; Police Department (Nyc); Tiktok (Bytedance); Memphis (Tenn); Hyundai Motor Co; Seattle (Wash); Kia Motors Corp; Real Estate (Commercial); Local Government; Security And Warning Systems; Trucks And Trucking; Factories And Manufacturing; Attorneys General; Youth; Labor And Jobs; Deaths (Fatalities); Urban Areas; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Crime And Criminals; Television; Computers And The Internet; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Police; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Documentary Films And Programs; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Traffic Accidents And Safety; Social Media; Automobiles

Title: Teens Are Stealing More Cars. They Learn How on Social Media.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-10 @ 07:40

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785172987

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/t eens-are-stealing-more-cars-they-learn-how-on/docview/2785172987/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Alone, Underage and Exploited for Labor: [National Desk]

Author: Dreier, Hannah; Photographs By Kirsten Luce

Publication info: Dreier, Hannah; Photographs By Kirsten Luce. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alone-underage-exploited-labor/docview/2779829688/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Arriving in record numbers, they're ending up in dangerous jobs that violate child labor laws -- including in factories that make products for well-known brands like Cheetos and Fruit of the Loom.
It was almost midnight in Grand Rapids, Mich., but inside the factory everything was bright. A conveyor belt carried bags of Cheerios past a cluster of young workers. One was 15-year-old Carolina Yoc, who came to the United States on her own last year to live with a relative she had never met.
About every 10 seconds, she stuffed a sealed plastic bag of cereal into a passing yellow carton. It could be dangerous work, with fast-moving pulleys and gears that had torn off fingers and ripped open a woman's scalp.
The factory was full of underage workers like Carolina, who had crossed the Southern border by themselves and were now spending late hours bent over hazardous machinery, in violation of child labor laws. At nearby plants, other children were tending giant ovens to make Chewy and Nature Valley granola bars and packing bags of Lucky Charms and Cheetos -- all of them working for the processing giant Hearthside Food Solutions, which would ship these products around the country.
"Sometimes I get tired and feel sick," Carolina said after a shift in November. Her stomach often hurt, and she was unsure if that was because of the lack of sleep, the stress from the incessant roar of the machines, or the worries she had for herself and her family in Guatemala. "But I'm getting used to it."
These workers are part of a new economy of exploitation: Migrant children, who have been coming into the United States without their parents in record numbers, are ending up in some of the most punishing jobs in the country, a New York Times investigation found. This shadow work force extends across industries in every state, flouting child labor laws that have been in place for nearly a century. Twelve-year-old roofers in Florida and Tennessee. Underage slaughterhouse workers in Delaware, Mississippi and North Carolina. Children sawing planks of wood on overnight shifts in South Dakota.
Largely from Central America, the children are driven by economic desperation that was worsened by the pandemic. This labor force has been slowly growing for almost a decade, but it has exploded since 2021, while the systems meant to protect children have broken down.
The Times spoke with more than 100 migrant child workers in 20 states who described jobs that were grinding them into exhaustion, and fears that they had become trapped in circumstances they never could have imagined. The Times examination also drew on court and inspection records and interviews with hundreds of lawyers, social workers, educators and law enforcement officials.
In town after town, children scrub dishes late at night. They run milking machines in Vermont and deliver meals in New York City. They harvest coffee and build lava rock walls around vacation homes in Hawaii. Girls as young as 13 wash hotel sheets in Virginia.
In many parts of the country, middle and high school teachers in English-language learner programs say it is now common for nearly all their students to rush off to long shifts after their classes end.
"They should not be working 12-hour days, but it's happening here," said Valeria Lindsay, a language arts teacher at Homestead Middle School near Miami. For the past three years, she said, almost every eighth grader in her English learner program of about 100 students was also carrying an adult workload.
Migrant child labor benefits both under-the-table operations and global corporations, The Times found. In Los Angeles, children stitch "Made in America" tags into J. Crew shirts. They bake dinner rolls sold at Walmart and Target, process milk used in Ben & Jerry's ice cream and help debone chicken sold at Whole Foods. As recently as the fall, middle-schoolers made Fruit of the Loom socks in Alabama. In Michigan, children make auto parts used by Ford and General Motors.
The number of unaccompanied minors entering the United States climbed to a high of 130,000 last year -- three times what it was five years earlier -- and this summer is expected to bring another wave.
These are not children who have stolen into the country undetected. The federal government knows they are in the United States, and the Department of Health and Human Services is responsible for ensuring sponsors will support them and protect them from trafficking or exploitation.
But as more and more children have arrived, the Biden White House has ramped up demands on staffers to move the children quickly out of shelters and release them to adults. Caseworkers say they rush through vetting sponsors.
While H.H.S. checks on all minors by calling them a month after they begin living with their sponsors, data obtained by The Times showed that over the last two years, the agency could not reach more than 85,000 children. Overall, the agency lost immediate contact with a third of migrant children.
An H.H.S. spokeswoman said the agency wanted to release children swiftly, for the sake of their well-being, but had not compromised safety. "There are numerous places along the process to continually ensure that a placement is in the best interest of the child," said the spokeswoman, Kamara Jones.
Far from home, many of these children are under intense pressure to earn money. They send cash back to their families while often being in debt to their sponsors for smuggling fees, rent and living expenses.
"It's getting to be a business for some of these sponsors," said Annette Passalacqua, who left her job as a caseworker in Central Florida last year. Ms. Passalacqua said she saw so many children put to work, and found law enforcement officials so unwilling to investigate these cases, that she largely stopped reporting them. Instead, she settled for explaining to the children that they were entitled to lunch breaks and overtime.
Sponsors are required to send migrant children to school, and some students juggle classes and heavy workloads. Other children arrive to find that they have been misled by their sponsors and will not be enrolled in school.
The federal government hires child welfare agencies to track some minors who are deemed to be at high risk. But caseworkers at those agencies said that H.H.S. regularly ignored obvious signs of labor exploitation, a characterization the agency disputed.
In interviews with more than 60 caseworkers, most independently estimated that about two-thirds of all unaccompanied migrant children ended up working full time.
A representative for Hearthside said the company relied on a staffing agency to supply some workers for its plants in Grand Rapids, but conceded that it had not required the agency to verify ages through a national system that checks Social Security numbers. Unaccompanied migrant children often obtain false identification to secure work.
"We are immediately implementing additional controls to reinforce all agencies' strict compliance with our longstanding requirement that all workers must be 18 or over," the company said in a statement.
At Union High School in Grand Rapids, Carolina's ninth-grade social studies teacher, Rick Angstman, has seen the toll that long shifts take on his students. One, who was working nights at a commercial laundry, began passing out in class from fatigue and was hospitalized twice, he said. Unable to stop working, she dropped out of school.
"She disappeared into oblivion," Mr. Angstman said. "It's the new child labor. You're taking children from another country and putting them in almost indentured servitude."
On the Night Shift
When Carolina left Guatemala, she had no real understanding of what she was heading toward, just a sense that she could not stay in her village any longer. There was not much electricity or water, and after the pandemic began, not much food.
The only people who seemed to be getting by were the families living off remittances from relatives in the United States. Carolina lived alone with her grandmother, whose health began failing. When neighbors started talking about heading north, she decided to join. She was 14.
"I just kept walking," she said.
Carolina reached the U.S. border exhausted, weighing 84 pounds. Agents sent her to an H.H.S. shelter in Arizona, where a caseworker contacted her aunt, Marcelina Ramirez. Ms. Ramirez was at first reluctant: She had already sponsored two other relatives and had three children of her own. They were living on $ 600 a week, and she didn't know Carolina.
When Carolina arrived in Grand Rapids last year, Ms. Ramirez told her she would go to school every morning and suggested that she pick up evening shifts at Hearthside. She knew Carolina needed to send money back to her grandmother. She also believed it was good for young people to work. Child labor is the norm in rural Guatemala, and she herself had started working around the second grade.
One of the nation's largest contract manufacturers, Hearthside makes and packages food for companies like Frito-Lay, General Mills and Quaker Oats. "It would be hard to find a cookie or cracker aisle in any leading grocer that does not contain multiple products from Hearthside production facilities," a Grand Rapids-area plant manager told a trade magazine in 2019.
General Mills, whose brands include Cheerios, Lucky Charms and Nature Valley, said it recognized "the seriousness of this situation" and was reviewing The Times's findings. PepsiCo, which owns Frito-Lay and Quaker Oats, declined to comment.
Three people who until last year worked at one of the biggest employment agencies in Grand Rapids, Forge Industrial Staffing, said Hearthside supervisors were sometimes made aware that they were getting young-looking workers whose identities had been flagged as false.
"Hearthside didn't care," said Nubia Malacara, a former Forge employee who said she had also worked at Hearthside as a minor.
In a statement, Hearthside said, "We do care deeply about this issue and are concerned about the mischaracterization of Hearthside." A spokesman for Forge said it complied with state and federal laws and "would never knowingly employ individuals under 18."
Kevin Tomas said he sought work through Forge after he arrived in Grand Rapids at age 13 with his 7-year-old brother. At first, he was sent to a local manufacturer that made auto parts for Ford and General Motors. But his shift ended at 6:30 in the morning, so he could not stay awake in school, and he struggled to lift the heavy boxes.
"It's not that we want to be working these jobs. It's that we have to help our families," Kevin said.
By the time he was 15, Kevin had found a job at Hearthside, stacking 50-pound cases of cereal on the same shift as Carolina.
'So Many Red Flags'
The growth of migrant child labor in the United States over the past several years is a result of a chain of willful ignorance. Companies ignore the young faces in their back rooms and on their factory floors. Schools often decline to report apparent labor violations, believing it will hurt children more than help. And H.H.S. behaves as if the migrant children who melt unseen into the country are doing just fine.
"As the government, we've turned a blind eye to their trafficking," said Doug Gilmer, the head of the Birmingham, Ala., office of Homeland Security Investigations, a federal agency that often becomes involved with immigration cases.
Mr. Gilmer teared up as he recalled finding 13-year-olds working in meat plants; 12-year-olds working at suppliers for Hyundai and Kia, as documented last year by a Reuters investigation; and children who should have been in middle school working at commercial bakeries.
"We're encountering it here because we're looking for it here," Mr. Gilmer said. "It's happening everywhere."
Children have crossed the Southern border on their own for decades, and since 2008, the United States has allowed non-Mexican minors to live with sponsors while they go through immigration proceedings, which can take several years. The policy, codified in anti-trafficking legislation, is intended to prevent harm to children who would otherwise be turned away and left alone in a Mexican border town.
When Kelsey Keswani first worked as an H.H.S. contractor in Arizona to connect unaccompanied migrant children with sponsors in 2010, the adults were almost always the children's parents, who had paid smugglers to bring them up from Central America, she said.
But around 2014, the number of arriving children began to climb, and their circumstances were different. In recent years, "the kids almost all have a debt to pay off, and they're super stressed about it," Ms. Keswani said.
She began to see more failures in the vetting process. "There were so many cases where sponsors had sponsored multiple kids, and it wasn't getting caught. So many red flags with debt. So many reports of trafficking."
Now, just a third of migrant children are going to their parents. A majority are sent to other relatives, acquaintances or even strangers, a Times analysis of federal data showed. Nearly half are coming from Guatemala, where poverty is fueling a wave of migration. Parents know that they would be turned away at the border or quickly deported, so they send their children in hopes that remittances will come back.
In the last two years alone, more than 250,000 children have entered the United States by themselves.
The shifting dynamics in Central America helped create a political crisis early in Mr. Biden's presidency, when children started crossing the border faster than H.H.S. could process them. With no room left in shelters, the children stayed in jail-like facilities run by Customs and Border Protection and, later, in tent cities. The images of children sleeping on gym mats under foil blankets attracted intense media attention.
The Biden administration pledged to move children through the shelter system more quickly. "We don't want to continue to see a child languish in our care if there is a responsible sponsor," Xavier Becerra, secretary of health and human services, told Congress in 2021.
His agency began paring back protections that had been in place for years, including some background checks and reviews of children's files, according to memos reviewed by The Times and interviews with more than a dozen current and former employees.
"Twenty percent of kids have to be released every week or you get dinged," said Ms. Keswani, who stopped working with H.H.S. last month.
Concerns piled up in summer 2021 at the Office of Refugee Resettlement, the H.H.S. division responsible for unaccompanied migrant children. In a memo that July, 11 managers said they were worried that labor trafficking was increasing and complained to their bosses that the office had become "one that rewards individuals for making quick releases, and not one that rewards individuals for preventing unsafe releases."
Staff members said in interviews that Mr. Becerra continued to push for faster results, often asking why they could not discharge children with machine-like efficiency.
"If Henry Ford had seen this in his plants, he would have never become famous and rich. This is not the way you do an assembly line," Mr. Becerra said at a staff meeting last summer, according to a recording obtained by The Times.
The H.H.S. spokeswoman, Ms. Jones, said that Mr. Becerra had urged his staff to "step it up." "Like any good leader, he wouldn't hesitate to do it again -- especially when it comes to the well-being and safety of children," she said.
During a call last March, Mr. Becerra told Cindy Huang, the O.R.R. director, that if she could not increase the number of discharges, he would find someone who could, according to five people familiar with the call. She resigned a month later.
He recently made a similar threat to her successor during a meeting with senior leadership, according to several people who were present.
'It Was All Lies'
While many migrant children are sent to the United States by their parents, others are persuaded to come by adults who plan to profit from their labor.
Nery Cutzal was 13 when he met his sponsor over Facebook Messenger. Once Nery arrived in Florida, he discovered that he owed more than $ 4,000 and had to find his own place to live. His sponsor sent him threatening text messages and kept a running list of new debts: $ 140 for filling out H.H.S. paperwork; $ 240 for clothes from Walmart; $ 45 for a taco dinner.
"Don't mess with me," the sponsor wrote. "You don't mean anything to me."
Nery began working until 3 a.m. most nights at a trendy Mexican restaurant near Palm Beach to make the payments. "He said I would be able to go to school and he would take care of me, but it was all lies," Nery said.
His father, Leonel Cutzal, said the family had become destitute after a series of bad harvests and had no choice but to send their oldest son north from Guatemala.
"Even when he shares $ 50, it's a huge help," Mr. Cutzal said. "Otherwise, there are times we don't eat." Mr. Cutzal had not understood how much Nery would be made to work, he said. "I think he passed through some hard moments being up there so young."
Nery eventually contacted law enforcement, and his sponsor was found guilty last year of smuggling a child into the United States for financial gain. That outcome is rare: In the past decade, federal prosecutors have brought only about 30 cases involving forced labor of unaccompanied minors, according to a Times review of court databases.
Unlike the foster care system, in which all children get case management, H.H.S. provides this service to about a third of children who pass through its care, and usually for just four months. Tens of thousands of other children are sent to their sponsors with little but the phone number for a national hotline. From there, they are often on their own: There is no formal follow-up from any federal or local agencies to ensure that sponsors are not putting children to work illegally.
In Pennsylvania, one case worker told The Times he went to check on a child released to a man who had applied to sponsor 20 other minors. The boy had vanished. In Texas, another case worker said she had encountered a man who had been targeting poor families in Guatemala, promising to help them get rich if they sent their children across the border. He had sponsored 13 children.
"If you've been in this field for any amount of time, you know that there's what the sponsors agree to, and what they're actually doing," said Bernal Cruz Munoz, a caseworker supervisor in Oregon.
Calling the hotline is not a sure way to get support, either. Juanito Ferrer called for help after he was brought to Manassas, Va., at age 15 by an acquaintance who forced him to paint houses during the day and guard an apartment complex at night. His sponsor took his paychecks and watched him on security cameras as he slept on the basement floor.
Juanito said that when he called the hotline in 2019, the person on the other end just took a report. "I thought they'd send the police or someone to check, but they never did that," he said. "I thought they would come and inspect the house, at least." He eventually escaped.
Asked about the hotline, H.H.S. said operators passed reports onto law enforcement and other local agencies because the agency did not have the authority to remove children from homes.
The Times analyzed government data to identify places with high concentrations of children who had been released to people outside their immediate families -- a sign that they might have been expected to work. In northwest Grand Rapids, for instance, 93 percent of children have been released to adults who are not their parents.
H.H.S. does not track these clusters, but the trends are so pronounced that officials sometimes notice hot spots anyway.
Scott Lloyd, who led the resettlement office in the Trump administration, said he realized in 2018 that the number of unaccompanied Guatemalan boys being released to sponsors in South Florida seemed to be growing.
"I always wondered what was happening there," he said.
But his attention was diverted by the chaos around the Trump administration's child separation policy, and he never looked into it. The trend he saw has only accelerated: For example, in the past three years, more than 200 children have been released to distant relatives or unrelated adults around Immokalee, Fla., an agricultural hub with a long history of labor exploitation.
In a statement, H.H.S. said it had updated its case management system to better flag instances when multiple children were being released to the same person or address.
Many sponsors see themselves as benevolent, doing a friend or neighbor a favor by agreeing to help a child get out of a government shelter, even if they do not intend to offer any support. Children often understand that they will have to work, but do not grasp the unrelenting grind that awaits them.
"I didn't get how expensive everything was," said 13-year-old Jose Vasquez, who works 12-hour shifts, six days a week, at a commercial egg farm in Michigan and lives with his teenage sister. "I'd like to go to school, but then how would I pay rent?"
Occupational Hazards
One fall morning at Union High School in Grand Rapids, Carolina listened to Mr. Angstman lecture on the journalist Jacob Riis and the Progressive Era movement that helped create federal child labor laws. He explained that the changes were meant to keep young people out of jobs that could harm their health or safety, and showed the class a photo of a small boy making cigars.
"Riis reported that members of this family worked 17 hours a day, seven days a week," he told the students. "The cramped space reeked of toxic fumes." Students seemed unmoved. Some struggled to stay awake.
Teachers at the school estimated that 200 of their immigrant students were working full time while trying to keep up with their classes. The greatest share of Mr. Angstman's students worked at one of the four Hearthside plants in the city.
The company, which has 39 factories in the United States, has been cited by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration for 34 violations since 2019, including for unsafe conveyor belts at the plant where Carolina found her job. At least 11 workers suffered amputations in that time. In 2015, a machine caught the hairnet of an Ohio worker and ripped off part of her scalp.
The history of accidents "shows a corporate culture that lacks urgency to keep workers safe," an OSHA official wrote after the most recent violation for an amputation.
Underage workers in Grand Rapids said that spicy dust from immense batches of Flamin' Hot Cheetos made their lungs sting, and that moving heavy pallets of cereal all night made their backs ache. They worried about their hands getting caught in conveyor belts, which federal law classifies as so hazardous that no child Carolina's age is permitted to work with them.
Hearthside said in a statement that it was committed to complying with laws governing worker protections. "We strongly dispute the safety allegations made and are proud of our safety-first culture," the statement read.
Federal law bars minors from a long list of dangerous jobs, including roofing, meat processing and commercial baking. Except on farms, children younger than 16 are not supposed to work for more than three hours or after 7 p.m. on school days.
But these jobs -- which are grueling and poorly paid, and thus chronically short-staffed -- are exactly where many migrant children are ending up. Adolescents are twice as likely as adults to be seriously injured at work, yet recently arrived preteens and teenagers are running industrial dough mixers, driving massive earthmovers and burning their hands on hot tar as they lay down roofing shingles, The Times found.
Unaccompanied minors have had their legs torn off in factories and their spines shattered on construction sites, but most of these injuries go uncounted. The Labor Department tracks the deaths of foreign-born child workers but no longer makes them public. Reviewing state and federal safety records and public reports, The Times found a dozen cases of young migrant workers killed since 2017, the last year the Labor Department reported any.
The deaths include a 14-year-old food delivery worker who was hit by a car while on his bike at a Brooklyn intersection; a 16-year-old who was crushed under a 35-ton tractor-scraper outside Atlanta; and a 15-year-old who fell 50 feet from a roof in Alabama where he was laying down shingles.
In 2021, Karla Campbell, a Nashville labor lawyer, helped a woman figure out how to transport the body of her 14-year-old grandson, who had been killed on a landscaping job, back to his village in Guatemala. It was the second child labor death she had handled that year.
"I've been working on these cases for 15 years, and the addition of children is new," Ms. Campbell said.
In dairy production, the injury rate is twice the national average across all industries. Paco Calvo arrived in Middlebury, Vt., when he was 14 and has been working 12-hour days on dairy farms in the four years since. He said he crushed his hand in an industrial milking machine in the first months of doing this work.
"Pretty much everyone gets hurt when they first start," he said.
Targeting the Middlemen
Charlene Irizarry, the human resources manager at Farm Fresh Foods, an Alabama meat plant that struggles to retain staff, recently realized she was interviewing a 12-year-old for a job slicing chicken breasts into nuggets in a section of the factory kept at 40 degrees.
Ms. Irizarry regularly sees job applicants who use heavy makeup or medical masks to try to hide their youth, she said. "Sometimes their legs don't touch the floor."
Other times, an adult will apply for a job in the morning, and then a child using the same name will show up for orientation that afternoon. She and her staff have begun separating other young applicants from the adults who bring them in, so they will admit their real ages.
Ms. Irizarry said the plant had already been fined for one child labor violation, and she was trying to avoid another. But she wondered what the children might face if she turned them away.
"I worry about why they're so desperate for these jobs," she said.
In interviews with underage migrant workers, The Times found child labor in the American supply chains of many major brands and retailers. Several, including Ford, General Motors, J. Crew and Walmart, as well as their suppliers, said they took the allegations seriously and would investigate. Target and Whole Foods did not respond to requests for comment. Fruit of the Loom said it had ended its contract with the supplier.
One company, Ben & Jerry's, said it worked with labor groups to ensure a minimum set of working conditions at its dairy suppliers. Cheryl Pinto, the company's head of values-led sourcing, said that if migrant children needed to work full time, it was preferable for them to have jobs at a well-monitored workplace.
The Labor Department is supposed to find and punish child labor violations, but inspectors in a dozen states said their understaffed offices could barely respond to complaints, much less open original investigations. When the department has responded to tips on migrant children, it has focused on the outside contractors and staffing agencies that usually employ them, not the corporations where they perform the work.
In Worthington, Minn., it had long been an open secret that migrant children released by H.H.S. were cleaning a slaughterhouse run by JBS, the world's largest meat processor. The town has received more unaccompanied migrant children per capita than almost anywhere in the country.
Outside the JBS pork plant last fall, The Times spoke with baby-faced workers who chased and teased one another as they came off their shifts in the morning. Many had scratched their assumed names off company badges to hide evidence that they were working under false identities. Some said they had suffered chemical burns from the corrosive cleaners they used.
Not long afterward, labor inspectors responding to a tip found 22 Spanish-speaking children working for the company hired to clean the JBS plant in Worthington, and dozens more in the same job at meat-processing plants around the United States.
But the Labor Department can generally only issue fines. The cleaning company paid a $ 1.5 million penalty, while JBS said it had been unaware that children were scouring the Worthington factory each night. JBS fired the cleaning contractor.
Many of the children who were working there have found new jobs at other plants, The Times found.
"I still have to pay back my debt, so I still have to work," said Mauricio Ramirez, 17, who has found a meat processing job in the next town over.
'Not What I Imagined'
It has been a little more than a year since Carolina left Guatemala, and she has started to make some friends. She and another girl who works at Hearthside have necklaces that fit together, each strung with half a heart. When she has time, she posts selfies online decorated with smiley faces and flowers.
Mostly, though, she keeps to herself. Her teachers do not know many details about her journey to the border. When the topic came up at school recently, Carolina began sobbing and would not say why.
After a week of 17-hour days, she sat at home one night with her aunt and considered her life in the United States. The long nights. The stress about money. "I didn't have expectations about what life would be like here," she said, "but it's not what I imagined."
She was holding a debit card given to her by a staffing agency, which paid her Hearthside salary this way so she did not have to cash checks. Carolina turned it over and over in her palm as her aunt looked on.
"I know you get sad," Ms. Ramirez said.
Carolina looked down. She wanted to continue going to school to learn English, but she woke up most mornings with a clenched stomach and kept staying home sick. Some of her ninth grade classmates had already dropped out. The 16-year-old boy she sat next to in math class, Cristian Lopez, had left school to work overtime at Hearthside.
Cristian lived a few minutes away, in a bare two-room apartment he shared with his uncle and 12-year-old sister, Jennifer.
His sister did not go to school either, and they had spent the day bickering in their room. Now night had fallen and they were eating Froot Loops for dinner. The heat was off, so they wore winter jackets. In an interview from Guatemala, their mother, Isabel Lopez, cried as she explained that she had tried to join her children in the United States last year but was turned back at the border.
Cristian had given his uncle some of the money he earned making Chewy bars, but his uncle believed it was not enough. He had said he would like Jennifer to start working at the factory as well, and offered to take her to apply himself.
Cristian said he had recently called the H.H.S. hotline. He hoped the government would send someone to check on him and his sister, but he had not heard back. He did not think he would call again.
Research was contributed by Andrew Fischer, Seamus Hughes, Michael H. Keller and Julie Tate.
Research was contributed by Andrew Fischer, Seamus Hughes, Michael H. Keller and Julie Tate.
Photograph Wander starts looking for day-labor jobs before sunrise. He is 13.; Carolina packages Cheerios at night in a factory. She is 15.; Cristian works a construction job instead of going to school. He is 14. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); The main detention center for unaccompanied children in the Rio Grande Valley, in Donna, Texas. (POOL PHOTO BY DARIO LOPEZ-MILLS); A Deadly Toll; MINNESOTA: The JBS pork plant in Worthington, Minn., worked with a sanitation contractor that hired children as young as 13 to clean up on overnight shifts.; SOUTH DAKOTA: Oscar Lopez, a ninth grader, works 12- to 14-hour overnight shifts at a sawmill about an hour away from home. He commutes with co-workers.; MICHIGAN: Hearthside Food Solutions in Grand Rapids makes products for Frito-Lay, Quaker Oats and others. Minors, many from Guatemala, work there. (A20); FLORIDA: Cristian, 14, has been working in construction in North Miami for two years instead of going to school. Federal law bars minors from a long list of such jobs. (A20-A21); Unaccompanied minors waiting to be transported to a Customs and Border Protection facility. (A21); Migrant teenagers are among the day laborers who gather in the early morning to find construction, landscaping or other work in Homestead, Fla.; A ledger, in Spanish, of Nery Cutzal's debts to his sponsor, whom he met over Facebook Messenger. Entries include $ 140 for filling out paperwork and $ 240 for clothes. The total is more than $ 4,000, plus interest. "He said I would be able to go to school and he would take care of me, but it was all lies," Nery said.; Carolina Ramirez, back right, attending classes at Union High School during the day; she works at Hearthside in the evenings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) This article appeared in print on page A1, A20, A21, A22.

ERIC Subject: Child Labor; Labor Legislation; Grade 2

Subject: Families & family life; Labor law; Students; Children & youth; Law enforcement; Child labor; Employment; Pandemics; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Labor law Child labor Employment Factories

Location: Florida; United States--US; Guatemala; Grand Rapids Michigan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/25/us/unaccompanied-migrant-child-workers-exploitation.html

Title: Alone, Underage and Exploited for Labor:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829688

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alone-underage-exploited-labor/docview/2779829688/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Times Wins Polk Awards for News on Ukraine and Hasidic Schools: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Robertson, Katie

Publication info: Robertson, Katie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/times-wins-polk-awards-news-on-ukraine-hasidic/docview/2778162243/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Times was honored for its coverage of the war in Ukraine and a photo of war victims, as well as for its reporting on private schools for Hasidic Jews in New York.
The New York Times won three George Polk Awards, two for its coverage of the war in Ukraine and one for an investigation into Hasidic Jewish schools in New York that denied students a basic education.
On Monday, Long Island University, which has run the prestigious Polk Awards for journalism since 1949, announced winners in 15 categories chosen from 515 submissions. A special award went to the youngest ever recipient of a Polk.
"Interestingly, a lot of reporters went after large, thematic stories, like the role of private equity companies in buying up hospitals, private homes and apartment complexes," John Darnton, the curator of the awards, said in a statement. "And the war in Ukraine produced superb war reporting, done at great peril."
The Times won the prize for foreign reporting. That submission included daily reporting on the war in Ukraine as well as a feature by Roger Cohen on President Vladimir V. Putin's "22-year slide from statesman to tyrant" in Russia. The Times's submission also included "Putin's War," a 13,000-word, two-month investigation that exposed Russia's powerful military as unprepared, ill-equipped and badly managed.
The Times also won the education reporting award for work by Eliza Shapiro and Brian M. Rosenthal that exposed how private schools in New York's Hasidic Jewish community were failing to provide students with an adequate education, despite receiving more than a quarter of a billion dollars in public funds annually.
Lynsey Addario of The Times won the photojournalism award for a photo that captured the horror in Ukraine. In the photo, the bodies of a Ukrainian mother, her two children and a family friend lay on the ground after they were killed by Russian mortar fire while trying to flee Ukraine. The citation for the award noted that Ms. Addario "dove for cover as the shell landed and then took the gruesome photo on instinct."
The award for war reporting was given to Mstyslav Chernov, Evgeniy Maloletka, Vasilisa Stepanenko and Lori Hinnant of The Associated Press. The A.P. was the last remaining Western news organization in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol after it came under fire from Russia, and the team of journalists documented the siege for almost three weeks before escaping.
The national reporting award went to Josh Gerstein, Alex Ward, Peter Canellos and the staff of Politico for their stunning scoop on a rare leak from the Supreme Court: a draft of the ruling that would overturn Roe v. Wade, upending the constitutional right to abortion after nearly 50 years. The official decision from the court came less than two months later. Politico continued its reporting with articles that examined the court's conservative majority and its hunt for the leaker of the draft.
John Archibald, Ashley Remkus and Ramsey Archibald of the news website AL.com won the prize for local reporting for an investigation into how the police force of the tiny town of Brookside, Ala., preyed on poorer residents with an aggressive increase in traffic citations and vehicle seizures, resulting in 640 percent growth in the town's revenues over two years.
The Reuters series "Undocumented and Underage," by Joshua Schneyer, Mica Rosenberg and Kristina Cooke, which also focused on Alabama, won for state reporting. The Reuters team revealed the widespread use of migrant children for illegal labor at factories that supply auto parts to Hyundai and Kia, as well as at chicken plants.
The health reporting award went to Kendall Taggart, John Templon, Anthony Cormier and Jason Leopold of BuzzFeed News for their investigation into the dire conditions at a chain of group homes for people with disabilities after it was bought by KKR, a private equity firm.
Ian Allison and Tracy Wang from the online cryptocurrency publication CoinDesk won the financial reporting honor for their work in exposing problems in the relationship between Sam Bankman-Fried's cryptocurrency exchange FTX and his trading firm, Alameda Research. The article set in motion the rapid implosion of both firms, and days later, FTX filed for bankruptcy. FTX customers and traders have lost billions of dollars, and Mr. Bankman-Fried is facing federal fraud charges.
A six-part series, "The Amazon, Undone," by Terrence McCoy of The Washington Post, won the environmental reporting prize. It illuminated the ways in which Brazil has failed to protect the rainforest, pushing it to the brink of destruction.
The justice reporting award went to Brett Murphy of ProPublica for his investigation into the pseudoscience of "911 call analysis," which claims to assess a caller's guilt based on speech patterns. His articles pointed to more than 100 cases in 26 states where the technique was used in criminal cases.
The prize for political reporting went to Sarah Blaskey, Nicholas Nehamas, Ana Ceballos, Mary Ellen Klas and the staff of the Miami Herald for their articles examining how refugees were lured under false pretenses onto flights from Texas to Martha's Vineyard, off the coast of Massachusetts, under the direction of Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida.
The foreign television award went to Sharif Abdel Kouddous, Kavitha Chekuru and Laila Al-Arian for "The Killing of Shireen Abu Akleh," a segment on Al Jazeera English's Fault Lines program. The team examined the shooting death by the Israeli military of Ms. Abu Akleh, a Palestinian-American journalist who was reporting in the West Bank.
Shimon Prokupecz, a senior crime and justice correspondent for CNN, and his crew were honored for national television reporting for their coverage of the school shooting in Uvalde, Texas, that claimed the lives of 19 children and two teachers, and of law enforcement's delay in challenging the gunman.
A special award was given to Theo Baker, a student at Stanford University and a reporter for The Stanford Daily, for uncovering allegations that some research papers co-written by Stanford University's president, Marc Tessier-Lavigne, contained manipulated images. The university is now investigating the allegations. Mr. Baker, 18, is the son of two journalists -- Peter Baker of The New York Times and Susan B. Glasser of The New Yorker, and is the youngest recipient of a Polk Award, according to Mr. Darnton.
The Sydney H. Schanberg prize, which honors long-form investigative journalism, was awarded to Alex Perry, a freelance journalist who chronicled a 2021 ISIS attack in a remote town in Mozambique for Outside magazine.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B2.

ERIC Subject: Ukrainian; Municipalities; Jews; Group Homes; Awards; Private Schools; Migrant Children; War

Subject: Journalism; Digital currencies; Journalists; Criminal investigations; Private schools; Education

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies

Location: Texas; Russia; New York; United States--US; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: Stanford University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/20/business/media/polk-awards-2022.html

Title: Times Wins Polk Awards for News on Ukraine and Hasidic Schools:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 21, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2778162243

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/times-wins-polk-awards-news-on-ukraine-hasidic/docview/2778162243/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 21, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York Times Wins 3 Polk Awards

Author: Robertson, Katie

Publication info: Robertson, Katie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-times-wins-3-polk-awards/docview/2778040995/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The New York Times won three George Polk Awards, two for its coverage of the war in Ukraine and one for an investigation into Hasidic Jewish schools in New York that denied students a basic education.
On Monday, Long Island University, which has run the prestigious Polk Awards for journalism since 1949, announced winners in 15 categories chosen from 515 submissions. A special award went to the youngest-ever recipient of a Polk.
“Interestingly, a lot of reporters went after large, thematic stories, like the role of private equity companies in buying up hospitals, private homes and apartment complexes,” John Darnton, the curator of the awards, said in a statement. “And the war in Ukraine produced superb war reporting, done at great peril.”
The Times won the prize for foreign reporting. That submission included daily reporting on the war in Ukraine as well as a feature by Roger Cohen on President Vladimir Putin’s “22-year slide from statesman to tyrant” in Russia. The Times’ submission also included “Putin’s War,” a 13,000-word, two-month investigation that exposed Russia’s powerful military as unprepared, ill-equipped and badly managed.
The Times also won the education reporting award for work by Eliza Shapiro and Brian M. Rosenthal that exposed how private schools in New York’s Hasidic Jewish community were failing to provide students with an adequate education, despite receiving more than $250 million in public funds annually.
Lynsey Addario of The Times won the photojournalism award for a photo that captured the horror in Ukraine. In the photo, the bodies of a Ukrainian mother, her two children and a family friend lay on the ground after they were killed by Russian mortar fire while trying to flee Ukraine. The citation for the award noted that Addario “dove for cover as the shell landed and then took the gruesome photo on instinct.”
The award for war reporting was given to Mstyslav Chernov, Evgeniy Maloletka, Vasilisa Stepanenko and Lori Hinnant of The Associated Press. The AP was the last remaining Western news organization in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol after it came under fire from Russia, and the team of journalists documented the siege for almost three weeks before escaping.
The national reporting award went to Josh Gerstein, Alex Ward, Peter Canellos and the staff of Politico for their scoop on a rare leak from the Supreme Court: a draft of the ruling that would overturn Roe v. Wade, upending the constitutional right to abortion after nearly 50 years. The official decision from the court came less than two months later. Politico continued its reporting with articles that examined the court’s conservative majority and its hunt for the leaker of the draft.
John Archibald, Ashley Remkus and Ramsey Archibald of the news website AL.com won the prize for local reporting for an investigation into how the police force of the tiny town of Brookside, Alabama, preyed on poorer residents with an aggressive increase in traffic citations and vehicle seizures, resulting in 640% growth in the town’s revenues over two years.
The Reuters series “Undocumented and Underage,” by Joshua Schneyer, Mica Rosenberg and Kristina Cooke, which also focused on Alabama, won for state reporting. The Reuters team revealed the widespread use of migrant children for illegal labor at factories that supply auto parts to Hyundai and Kia, as well as at chicken plants.
The health reporting award went to Kendall Taggart, John Templon, Anthony Cormier and Jason Leopold of BuzzFeed News for their investigation into the dire conditions at a chain of group homes for people with disabilities after it was bought by KKR, a private equity firm.
Ian Allison and Tracy Wang from the online cryptocurrency publication CoinDesk won the financial reporting honor for their work in exposing problems in the relationship between Sam Bankman-Fried’s cryptocurrency exchange FTX and his trading firm, Alameda Research. The article set in motion the rapid implosion of both firms, and days later, FTX filed for bankruptcy. FTX customers and traders have lost billions of dollars, and Bankman-Fried is facing federal fraud charges.
A six-part series, “The Amazon, Undone,” by Terrence McCoy of The Washington Post, won the environmental reporting prize. It illuminated the ways in which Brazil has failed to protect the rainforest, pushing it to the brink of destruction.
The justice reporting award went to Brett Murphy of ProPublica for his investigation into the pseudoscience of “911 call analysis,” which claims to assess a caller’s guilt based on speech patterns. His articles pointed to more than 100 cases in 26 states where the technique was used in criminal cases.
The prize for political reporting went to Sarah Blaskey, Nicholas Nehamas, Ana Ceballos, Mary Ellen Klas and the staff of the Miami Herald for their articles examining how refugees were lured under false pretenses onto flights from Texas to Martha’s Vineyard, off the coast of Massachusetts, under the direction of Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida.
The foreign television award went to Sharif Abdel Kouddous, Kavitha Chekuru and Laila Al-Arian for “The Killing of Shireen Abu Akleh,” a segment on Al-Jazeera English’s Fault Lines program. The team examined the shooting death by the Israeli military of Abu Akleh, a Palestinian-American journalist who was reporting in the West Bank.
Shimon Prokupecz, a senior crime and justice correspondent for CNN, and his crew were honored for national television reporting for their coverage of the school shooting in Uvalde, Texas, that claimed the lives of 19 children and two teachers, and of law enforcement’s delay in challenging the gunman.
A special award was given to Theo Baker, a student at Stanford University and a reporter for The Stanford Daily, for uncovering allegations that some research papers co-written by Stanford University’s president, Marc Tessier-Lavigne, contained manipulated images. The university is now investigating the allegations. Baker, 18, is the son of two journalists — Peter Baker of The New York Times and Susan B. Glasser of The New Yorker — and is the youngest recipient of a Polk Award, according to Darnton.
The Sydney H. Schanberg prize, which honors long-form investigative journalism, was awarded to Alex Perry, a freelance journalist who chronicled a 2021 Islamic State group attack in a remote town in Mozambique for Outside magazine. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Ukrainian; Municipalities; Jews; Group Homes; Awards; Photojournalism; Migrant Children; War

Subject: Journalism; Photojournalism; Students; Jewish schools; Journalists; Digital currencies; Criminal investigations; Education

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies

Location: Texas; Russia; New York; United States--US; Kyiv Ukraine; Alabama; Ukraine

People: Addario, Lynsey

Company / organization: Name: Stanford University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Business; Long, Michael R; Desantis, Ron; Darnton, John; Putin, Vladimir V; Schanberg, Sydney H; Baker, Peter; Addario, Lynsey; Cohen, Roger; Hyundai Motor Co; Alameda Research Llc; Miami Herald; Washington Post; Coindesk Inc; Propublica; Cnn; Long Island University; Buzzfeed Inc; Florida; Massachusetts; Brazil; Israel; Martha's Vineyard (Mass); Mozambique; Rosenthal, Brian M; Shapiro, Eliza (Journalist); Archibald, John (1963 ); Kia Motors Corp; New Yorker; Islamic State In Iraq And Syria (Isis); Amazon Jungle; West Bank; Supreme Court (Us); Abu Akleh, Shireen; Tessier Lavigne, Marc; Canellos, Peter S; Mariupol (Ukraine); Rosenberg (Tex); Arian, Laila Al; Associated Press; Politico, The; Texas; Alabama; Nehamas, Nicholas; AmazonCom Inc; New York State; Glasser, Susan; Bankman Fried, Sam; Stanford University; Uvalde (Tex); Al Jazeera; Al Jazeera English; New York Times; Russia; Hk Ftx Trading Ltd (Futures Exchange); Thomson Reuters Corporation; Ukraine; Gerstein, Josh; Children And Childhood; Polk, George, Awards; Fugitives; Speeches And Statements; Classified Information And State Secrets; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Draft And Recruitment (Military); Awards, Decorations And Honors; Hasidism; Abortion; Private And Sectarian Schools; School Shootings And Armed Attacks; Youth; Assaults; Politics And Government; Search And Seizure; Jews And Judaism; Disabilities; Terrorism; Private Equity; Rumors And Misinformation; Coastal Areas; Education (K 12); Abuse Of The Disabled; Defense And Military Forces; Colleges And Universities; Decisions And Verdicts; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Uvalde, Tex, Shooting (May 24, 2022); Newspapers; Television

Title: New York Times Wins 3 Polk Awards

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-20 @ 10:48

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2778040995

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-times-wins-3-polk-awards/docview/2778040995/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 20, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Precious Housing Aid, but a Frustrating Search: [National Desk]

Author: Knoll, Corina

Publication info: Knoll, Corina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/precious-housing-aid-frustrating-search/docview/2777564664/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As the housing crisis deepens in Los Angeles County, one young woman learns that searching for a place of her own is more difficult than ever.
LOS ANGELES -- Many of the apartment listings were outdated or offered scant details. Sometimes the rent was a few hundred dollars higher than advertised.
If she managed to get someone on the phone, Jacqueline Benitez would inquire about square footage, about parking, about whether the landlord might accept a rescue tabby named Kiwi.
But when she brought up her housing voucher, the tone would usually shift.
"They would say, 'No, we do not accept Section 8, sorry.' Or, 'We tried Section 8 in the past, and it didn't work for us,"' Ms. Benitez said, referring to the commonly used term for the vouchers. At 21 years old, she had found herself stuck in a loop of hope and rejection.
Landing an apartment in Los Angeles County can be an arduous journey in a region struggling with a housing shortage and homelessness crisis, where even those with steady middle-class salaries have found themselves in a rat race for a home.
For the impoverished, the search can feel ultimately impossible.
Federally funded vouchers were meant to close that gap by enabling low-income residents to choose their own housing and having the government cover much of the rent. But they can take years to come by. And while securing a voucher may seem akin to winning a golden ticket, it is no guarantee.
Inflation has caused rents to soar across California, and landlords have become even more selective after some tenants stopped making payments during the early months of the coronavirus pandemic.
"Los Angeles is the capital of housing voucher discrimination," said Aaron Carr, the founder and executive director of Housing Rights Initiative, a national watchdog group. "It lacks enforcement, and it lacks housing, which is a death sentence for many voucher holders."
Homeless Again
Ms. Benitez was 15 when her mother, a meth addict, was deported to England for drug possession. Her father had drifted away from her family long ago.
It was her grandmother who helped fill in the blanks, offering a weathered home in a corner of southeast Los Angeles County. But soon she, too, was gone, her death a drawn-out inevitability after a series of illnesses. Relatives quickly sold the house and split the money among themselves two years ago.
All of which is how Ms. Benitez, at 19, found herself homeless the first time.
"We lost a lot of our stuff, because we had to get out as fast as possible," she recalled. "It was really just me and my sister trying to figure out everything."
She was enrolled at a community college in Norwalk, Calif., that happened to have just opened a housing development exclusively for homeless students. She paid the $ 385 monthly rent with cash from selling her grandmother's bedroom and dining sets and then from part-time work as a nanny. The place came with three roommates, biweekly inspections and a strict rule prohibiting guests.
At the end of last summer, Ms. Benitez was teetering on the brink of homelessness again when she prepared to leave her community college for a four-year university.
No longer eligible for her current housing, she had few options. Her sister, nine years older, lived with a boyfriend's family and could offer only the couch. An uncle stayed at a motel, but she was not comfortable with the idea of joining him.
Then, unexpectedly, Ms. Benitez learned she could obtain a housing choice voucher. It would pay a large portion of the rent -- if she landed an apartment before it expired.
A Not-So-Golden Ticket
Ms. Benitez knew little about Section 8 when she secured help through a nonprofit that was given vouchers for the purpose of assisting young adults experiencing homelessness. This allowed her to bypass the voucher wait list through the county's housing authority, which has about 33,000 families or individuals on it and has not taken additional applicants since 2009.
The Section 8 program is named after a clause in the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 that was amended more than three decades later to help low-income Americans secure private housing at a discount.
Ms. Benitez had been teaching at a preschool, where she made $ 1,300 a month and was limited to part-time hours without a four-year degree. Working in early childhood education, she had found, could be both fulfilling and therapeutic for someone with a traumatic past.
A place of her own would be a dream for someone who still cringed at the memory of having her school lunch tray taken away because she could not pay for the food.
She hoped for an apartment that was close to her job, her sister and California State University, Long Beach, where she wanted to enroll.
In August, she began eagerly searching housing apps, encouraged at first by what seemed like countless options. Her voucher expired in mid-December, around the same time she had to vacate her community college housing.
After dozens of calls, Ms. Benitez managed to line up a handful of apartments to visit. Despite their monthly cost -- around $ 2,000 a month -- they were austere places with quirks: wonky electricity, a broken sliding door, unsafe staircases, missing kitchen cabinets.
"Some dude kicked a hole in the wall," said one apartment manager, shrugging. He said he would fix the hole but would allow only an 11-month lease, a loophole sometimes used by landlords because California law allows them to terminate a tenancy without just cause if the apartment has been occupied for less than one year. A housing voucher usually requires a lease of 12 months.
A state law makes it illegal to discriminate against renters based on their source of income. But landlords tend to see applicants with vouchers as unreliable tenants or associated with crime and other problems, said Manuel Villagomez, an attorney with the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles. They also want to avoid the additional steps of working with public housing agencies, he said.
Ms. Benitez found that those who said they would accept a voucher still had unattainable requirements. The renter's monthly salary needed to be at least 2.5 times the rent. Or the lease would need a co-signer. Or the co-signer needed to earn five times the rent.
Voucher holders can report discrimination to the state civil rights department or request assistance from a legal services program -- neither of which is appealing to those seeking a home as soon as possible.
"Are you going to interrupt your search to fight every landlord who says, 'I'm not going to rent to you because you have Section 8?"' said Nisha Vyas, an attorney with the Western Center on Law and Poverty. "It's more likely you're going to keep trying to find someone who's going to say yes."
When one leasing agency made the promising step of running Ms. Benitez's credit history, it came back blank. She had never owned a credit card, because she feared going into debt like her mother who had been in and out of jail for petty theft.
She sent questions to the county's housing authority but remained confused by the answers.
After a month of dead ends, she began to calculate what it might cost for her to live for a while at the same motel as her uncle.
'I Need Somewhere to Go'
Many voucher recipients give up or are unable to extend the time window long enough to find housing. The success rate for Los Angeles County's housing authority from April 2021 to December 2022 was 44.7 percent of vouchers issued, according to a spokeswoman for the agency.
Around Thanksgiving, Ms. Benitez had already reached out to more than 300 places when she spotted an apartment listed in nearby Bellflower. It required a $ 50 application fee as well as an extra $ 200 to "hold" the place. The rent was $ 1,950 plus utilities. With the voucher, her portion would be no more than 40 percent of her monthly adjusted income. She applied immediately.
By then, the case manager who worked with Ms. Benitez at her school had requested more help from the housing authority. Until that point, Ms. Benitez had been working with one of the authority's 160 program specialists. She was soon assigned one of its eight housing advisers.
The month had been one of panic. She was troubled by the amount of money she had poured into rental applications. And she had been forced to buy a new laptop when her old one fizzled. Her used silver Kia required a new battery and a set of tires.
"She was calling me crying and stressed out in the middle of the night, because she couldn't find a place," said her sister, Jessica Grosky, 30. "It made me feel helpless and wish that we were in a different situation where I could provide for her."
Ms. Benitez was also studying for finals and preparing to see her mother for the first time in six years. When they finally spotted each other at the Tijuana airport, it was a relief to see how easily they could reconnect.
Soon after, Ms. Benitez received word that she had been accepted as a tenant for the Bellflower apartment. It could be hers -- after the housing authority approved the rent amount and conducted an inspection, and the landlord signed a payment contract.
She had yet to even see the apartment in person, but it did not matter. "At this point I'm desperate," she said. "I need somewhere to go."
On Dec. 16, after four months of searching, she signed the lease.
Fresh Paint and a Small Balcony
By New Year's Day, Ms. Benitez was fully moved into a green complex on the edge of an industrial area, not far from a mobile home park and a gas station. It was a short drive from Cal State Long Beach, where she would soon be accepted.
She had been relieved to find that her apartment was roomy and freshly painted and had a small balcony that overlooked the carport. The kitchen, although tiny, was clean. All she needed was the free refrigerator she had applied for through the housing authority.
It was the living room, an airy space with a high ceiling and brown carpet, that made it feel grown-up. "Is it possible to have impostor syndrome in your own place?" she said.
The previous two weeks had been spent excitedly lugging in furnishings. A dresser from the clearance section of Wayfair. A taupe couch that had been offered for free online. A wall clock from the dollar store.
And Ms. Benitez had realized the unimaginable: hosting her sister and uncle for a meal on Christmas Eve. She had never known what it might be like to offer someone else a place to visit. The notion of home was so simple, she said, yet could offer the most profound transformation.
"It's about having something that's mine, that no one's going to take away from me, as long as I do what I need to do," she said. "And that's just everything, isn't it?"
Photograph Jacqueline Benitez, right, showed her sister, Jessica Grosky, her new apartment in Bellflower, Calif. (A1); Using a government housing voucher, Jacqueline Benitez spent months running into reluctant landlords, run-down units and bureaucratic loopholes before she finally secured an apartment in Bellflower, Calif., in December. From left, she showed her mother via video chat; took a look around with the community manager, Melissa Castaneda; and got to work assembling a television stand.; Ms. Benitez and her sister, Jessica Grosky, rummaged through a storage unit to find some furnishings for Ms. Benitez's apartment.; Ms. Benitez, who is interested in early childhood education, working at a children's center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIANA DREHSLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: Housing; Vouchers; Rentals; Homeless people; State laws; Low income groups; Part time employment; Community colleges

Business indexing term: Subject: Part time employment

Location: Los Angeles County California; California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/17/us/housing-voucher-search-los-angeles.html

Title: Precious Housing Aid, but a Frustrating Search:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777564664

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/precious-housing-aid-frustrating-search/docview/2777564664/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Homeless Student Received Aid for an Apartment. Then Came the Hard Part.

Author: Knoll, Corina

Publication info: Knoll, Corina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/homeless-student-received-aid-apartment-then-came/docview/2777428985/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LOS ANGELES — Many of the apartment listings were outdated or offered scant details. Sometimes the rent was a few hundred dollars higher than advertised.
If she managed to get someone on the phone, Jacqueline Benitez would inquire about square footage, about parking, about whether the landlord might accept a rescue tabby named Kiwi.
But when she brought up her housing voucher, the tone would usually shift.
“They would say, ‘No, we do not accept Section 8, sorry.’ Or, ‘We tried Section 8 in the past, and it didn’t work for us,’” Benitez said, referring to the commonly used term for the vouchers. At 21, she had found herself stuck in a loop of hope and rejection.
Landing an apartment in Los Angeles County can be an arduous journey in a region struggling with a housing shortage and homelessness crisis, where even those with steady middle-class salaries have found themselves in a rat race for a home.
For the impoverished, the search can feel ultimately impossible.
Federally funded vouchers were meant to close that gap by enabling low-income residents to choose their own housing and having the government cover much of the rent. But they can take years to come by. And while securing a voucher may seem akin to winning a golden ticket, it is no guarantee.
Inflation has caused rents to soar across California, and landlords have become even more selective after some tenants stopped making payments during the early months of the coronavirus pandemic.
“Los Angeles is the capital of housing voucher discrimination,” said Aaron Carr, the founder and executive director of Housing Rights Initiative, a national watchdog group. “It lacks enforcement, and it lacks housing, which is a death sentence for many voucher holders.”
Homeless Again
Benitez was 15 when her mother, a meth addict, was deported to England for drug possession. Her father had drifted away from her family long ago.
It was her grandmother who helped fill in the blanks, offering a weathered home in a corner of southeast Los Angeles County. But soon she, too, was gone, her death a drawn-out inevitability after a series of illnesses. Relatives quickly sold the house and split the money among themselves two years ago.
All of which is how Benitez, at 19, found herself homeless the first time.
“We lost a lot of our stuff, because we had to get out as fast as possible,” she recalled. “It was really just me and my sister trying to figure out everything.”
She was enrolled at a community college in Norwalk, California, that happened to have just opened a housing development exclusively for homeless students. She paid the $385 monthly rent with cash from selling her grandmother’s bedroom and dining sets and then from part-time work as a nanny. The place came with three roommates, biweekly inspections and a strict rule prohibiting guests.
At the end of last summer, Benitez was teetering on the brink of homelessness again when she prepared to leave her community college for a four-year university.
No longer eligible for her current housing, she had few options. Her sister, nine years older, lived with a boyfriend’s family and could offer only the couch. An uncle stayed at a motel, but she was not comfortable with the idea of joining him.
Then, unexpectedly, Benitez learned she could obtain a housing choice voucher. It would pay a large portion of the rent — if she landed an apartment before it expired.
A Not-So-Golden Ticket
Benitez knew little about Section 8 when she secured help through a nonprofit that was given vouchers for the purpose of assisting young adults experiencing homelessness. This allowed her to bypass the voucher waitlist through the county’s housing authority, which has about 33,000 families or individuals on it and has not taken additional applicants since 2009.
The Section 8 program is named after a clause in the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 that was amended more than three decades later to help low-income Americans secure private housing at a discount.
Benitez had been teaching at a preschool, where she made $1,300 a month and was limited to part-time hours without a four-year degree. Working in early childhood education, she had found, could be both fulfilling and therapeutic for someone with a traumatic past.
A place of her own would be a dream for someone who still cringed at the memory of having her school lunch tray taken away because she could not pay for the food.
She hoped for an apartment that was close to her job, her sister and California State University, Long Beach, where she wanted to enroll.
In August, she began eagerly searching housing apps, encouraged at first by what seemed like countless options. Her voucher expired in mid-December, around the same time she had to vacate her community college housing.
After dozens of calls, Benitez managed to line up a handful of apartments to visit. Despite their monthly cost — around $2,000 a month — they were austere places with quirks: wonky electricity, a broken sliding door, unsafe staircases, missing kitchen cabinets.
“Some dude kicked a hole in the wall,” said one apartment manager, shrugging. He said he would fix the hole but would allow only an 11-month lease, a loophole sometimes used by landlords because California law allows them to terminate a tenancy without just cause if the apartment has been occupied for less than one year. A housing voucher usually requires a lease of 12 months.
A state law makes it illegal to discriminate against renters based on their source of income. But landlords tend to see applicants with vouchers as unreliable tenants or associated with crime and other problems, said Manuel Villagomez, an attorney with the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles. They also want to avoid the additional steps of working with public housing agencies, he said.
Benitez found that those who said they would accept a voucher still had unattainable requirements. The renter’s monthly salary needed to be at least 2.5 times the rent. Or the lease would need a co-signer. Or the co-signer needed to earn five times the rent.
Voucher holders can report discrimination to the state civil rights department or request assistance from a legal services program — neither of which is appealing to those seeking a home as soon as possible.
“Are you going to interrupt your search to fight every landlord who says, ‘I’m not going to rent to you because you have Section 8?’” said Nisha Vyas, an attorney with the Western Center on Law and Poverty. “It’s more likely you’re going to keep trying to find someone who’s going to say yes.”
When one leasing agency made the promising step of running Benitez’s credit history, it came back blank. She had never owned a credit card, because she feared going into debt like her mother who had been in and out of jail for petty theft.
She sent questions to the county’s housing authority but remained confused by the answers.
After a month of dead ends, she began to calculate what it might cost for her to live for a while at the same motel as her uncle.
‘I Need Somewhere to Go’
Many voucher recipients give up or are unable to extend the time window long enough to find housing. The success rate for Los Angeles County’s housing authority from April 2021 to December 2022 was 44.7% of vouchers issued, according to a spokesperson for the agency.
Around Thanksgiving, Benitez had already reached out to more than 300 places when she spotted an apartment listed in nearby Bellflower. It required a $50 application fee as well as an extra $200 to “hold” the place. The rent was $1,950 plus utilities. With the voucher, her portion would be no more than 40% of her monthly adjusted income. She applied immediately.
By then, the case manager who worked with Benitez at her school had requested more help from the housing authority. Until that point, Benitez had been working with one of the authority’s 160 program specialists. She was soon assigned one of its eight housing advisers.
The month had been one of panic. She was troubled by the amount of money she had poured into rental applications. And she had been forced to buy a new laptop when her old one fizzled. Her used silver Kia required a new battery and a set of tires.
“She was calling me crying and stressed out in the middle of the night, because she couldn’t find a place,” said her sister, Jessica Grosky, 30. “It made me feel helpless and wish that we were in a different situation where I could provide for her.”
Benitez was also studying for finals and preparing to see her mother for the first time in six years. When they finally spotted each other at the Tijuana airport, it was a relief to see how easily they could reconnect.
Soon after, Benitez received word that she had been accepted as a tenant for the Bellflower apartment. It could be hers — after the housing authority approved the rent amount and conducted an inspection, and the landlord signed a payment contract.
She had yet to even see the apartment in person, but it did not matter. “At this point I’m desperate,” she said. “I need somewhere to go.”
On Dec. 16, after four months of searching, she signed the lease.
Fresh Paint and a Small Balcony
By New Year’s Day, Benitez was fully moved into a green complex on the edge of an industrial area, not far from a mobile home park and a gas station. It was a short drive from Cal State Long Beach, where she would soon be accepted.
She had been relieved to find that her apartment was roomy and freshly painted and had a small balcony that overlooked the carport. The kitchen, although tiny, was clean. All she needed was the free refrigerator she had applied for through the housing authority.
It was the living room, an airy space with a high ceiling and brown carpet, that made it feel grown-up. “Is it possible to have impostor syndrome in your own place?” she said.
The previous two weeks had been spent excitedly lugging in furnishings. A dresser from the clearance section of Wayfair. A taupe couch that had been offered for free online. A wall clock from the dollar store.
And Benitez had realized the unimaginable: hosting her sister and uncle for a meal on Christmas Eve. She had never known what it might be like to offer someone else a place to visit. The notion of home was so simple, she said, yet could offer the most profound transformation.
“It’s about having something that’s mine, that no one’s going to take away from me, as long as I do what I need to do,” she said. “And that’s just everything, isn’t it?” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Housing; Vouchers; Homeless people; State laws; Low income groups; Part time employment; Community colleges

Business indexing term: Subject: Part time employment

Location: Los Angeles County California; California; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: California State University; England; United States; California State University, Long Beach; Los Angeles County (Calif); California; Los Angeles (Calif); Carr, Aaron; Education (Pre School); Wages And Salaries; Legal Aid For The Poor (Civil); Vouchers; Christmas; Income; Part Time Employment; Furniture; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Labor And Jobs; Philanthropy; Community Colleges; Discrimination; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Poverty; Section 8 (Housing); Affordable Housing; Advertising And Marketing; Landlords; Education (K 12); Colleges And Universities; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Homeless Persons

Title: A Homeless Student Received Aid for an Apartment. Then Came the Hard Part.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-17 @ 17:49

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777428985

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/homeless-student-received-aid-apartment-then-came/docview/2777428985/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2776316398/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: RETAIL
Walmart Is Closing
3 Technology Hubs in U.S.
Walmart will close technology hubs in Texas, California and Oregon, and aim to relocate employees from there to other locations, including the company's headquarters in Bentonville, Ark.
"We've made the decision to focus our tech team's presence within select locations," Walmart said in an emailed statement on Tuesday. "We hope to relocate or allow for remote work for all affected associates."
Walmart had been expanding its tech hubs across the United States and Canada over the last few years. It also has hubs in India.
It was not immediately clear how many employees would be affected.
Walmart's digital business remains strong. In its most recent earnings, which it released in November, the retailer reported that e-commerce increased 1 percent from the previous year -- and 38 percent from 2020. The company will report fourth-quarter earnings Tuesday. JORDYN HOLMAN
AVIATION
Air India Agrees to Lease
A Record 470 Airliners
Air India unveiled deals on Tuesday for a record 470 jets from Airbus and Boeing, accelerating the rebirth of a national emblem under new owners Tata Group as Europe and the United States hailed deepening economic and political ties with New Delhi.
The provisional deals include 220 planes from Boeing and 250 from Airbus and eclipse previous records for a single airline as Air India vies with the domestic giant IndiGo to serve what will soon be the world's largest population.
President Biden called the agreement "historic."
Boeing will supply 190 737 MAX, 20 of its 787 Dreamliners and 10 mini-jumbo 777X.
Together with another 25 Airbus jets to be leased to meet immediate needs, the overall acquisition reaches 495 jets, an Airbus executive said.
The airline's renaissance under the Tata conglomerate aims to capitalize on India's growing base of fliers and large diaspora across the world. REUTERS
AUTOMOBILES
A TikTok Challenge
Snares Hyundai and Kia
Hyundai and Kia are rolling out software updates to stem a raft of auto thefts related to a TikTok challenge that authorities believe has led to at least 14 reported crashes and eight fatalities.
The updates are free for millions of vehicles that are missing a key anti-theft device, an issue that was exploited on social media and led to rampant theft of the cars.
The software being released updates the theft alarm software logic to extend the length of the alarm sound from 30 seconds to one minute and requires the key to be in the ignition switch to turn the vehicle on.
About 3.8 million Hyundais and 4.5 million Kias are eligible for the software update, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said Tuesday.
Hyundai said updates began Tuesday for nearly 4 million vehicles beginning with a million model year 2017-2020 Elantra, 2015-2019 Sonata and 2020-2021 Venue vehicles; remaining eligible vehicles will update by June. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Jordyn Holman, Reuters and Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC PIERMONT/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Purchase orders; Software upgrading; Robbery

Location: United States--US; India

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Airbus SAS; NAICS: 336411, 336412, 336413; Name: Air India; NAICS: 481111; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/13/business/15bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2776316398

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest /docview/2776316398/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harry Styles Ate Here. Fans Flock.: [Style Desk]

Author: Creeden, Molly

Publication info: Creeden, Molly. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-fans-flock/docview/2775347534/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At 9:30 a.m. on a Thursday, the Harrys began to arrive at Beachwood Cafe. Young women with neon hair extensions, colorful crocheted cardigans and shirts illustrated with cherries, sunflowers and the word "Pleasing" piled out of rental cars and Ubers. They were trailed by their mothers and filming on their phones. By 10:30, the mom-and pop eatery, which has been around since the 1970s in the heart of Beachwood Canyon, Los Angeles, had a 30-minute wait, and a swarm of teenage girls taking photos in front of its blue door.
Who are the Harrys? They are Harry Styles superfans, and hordes of them have been making the pilgrimage to Beachwood Cafe, a cheerful spot with an all-day menu off a small village square, since December 2019. That's when the superstar briefly name-checked the restaurant in the song "Falling": "And the coffee's out at the Beachwood Cafe," he sang. That one line -- which Styles-olgoists believe to be about his ex Camille Rowe, a former Beachwood Canyon resident -- sent a bat signal.
"I just felt like coming here would complete the whole Harry Styles experience," said Caysey Gossweiler, 27, who traveled from Maryland to attend one of the three concerts that Mr. Styles would perform at the Kia Forum that weekend in late January.
"It's panic-inducing; I could literally evaporate thinking about it," said Noelle Jay, 26, of being in the same space where Mr. Styles once ate eggs. "He's like a god," added her cousin Mia Tucci, 17, whose hair was a shade of Kelly green. "He's like my comfort person, my light, my inspiration, all of the above," Ms. Jay replied.
Nearby, Nathan Freeman, 26, and his wife, Shannon Freeman, 25, were taking photos of Taylor Anderson and Alyson Johnston -- 20-year-old college students from Oregon they had just met. "It was like -- where should we go for breakfast? Harry told us where to go!" Mr. Freeman said gleefully.
The couple, who wore matching crop top and bell bottom ensembles to attend the concert at the Forum, had spent the previous day at Sycamore Cove Beach in Malibu, where fans say Mr. Styles filmed the videos for "Watermelon Sugar" and the One Direction song "What Makes You Beautiful."
"She ran and screamed and fan-girled," Mr. Freeman said, describing his wife's behavior upon arriving at the beach. "I was like, ah!" he shrieked. "I love this for you!"
Ms. Freeman said she admired Mr. Styles for his kindness. "I've never seen a scandal from him ever -- which is amazing."
Over avocado toast at a table inside, Ms. Anderson -- who made her family do a detour during an Amalfi Coast vacation to visit a street where Mr. Styles filmed parts of the "Golden" music video (she found the location by searching Google Maps for landmarks in the background of the behind-the-scenes video) -- offered her perspective on the fandom. "It's a family in a lot of ways," she said. "A good example of how the online world connects people."
Ms. Johnston finished watching a video on her phone of Mr. Styles doing Pilates, via the fan account Harry Florals, and added: "You can just kind of look at someone, and if they're our age and wearing clothes that resemble the Harry style it's like, OK, these are people you can talk to who are nice."
"The term is 'Harry coded,"' explained Xoee Margolis, 26, who was wearing neon orange Adidas Gazelles (inspired by ones Mr. Styles wears from the Gucci/Adidas collaboration). She held two new Beachwood Market totes in her hand, which she'd seen while browsing the cafe's merch section online from her home in New York City. "Wearing a little cherry is an ode to the 'Cherry' song, carrying around a Beachwood bag the shoes are Harry-coded -- it's a vibe."
"I made the mistake of not bringing in merch earlier," said the cafe's owner, Mike Fahim. But when he discovered eBay and Etsy accounts selling knockoff merchandise for his restaurant, he saw a business opportunity.
When Mr. Fahim took over the cafe in the fall of 2019, the crowd was a mix of locals, tourists headed to the nearby Hollywood sign, business lunches from film studios, and celebrities flying under the radar. In early 2020, the clientele started shifting to Gen Z girls and young women -- some of whom bring cardboard cutouts of Styles for photos -- and, in some cases, their parents.
Mr. Fahim, who had never heard of Harry Styles, embraced the affiliation.
Now, the tip jar says "Harry Tips Here." A sign depicted in a mural declares "The Coffee's Out," referring to the line in the song featuring Beachwood. And he and his staff are happy to take photos and answer fans' questions about what Mr. Styles is said to have eaten (the Beachwood Scramble), and where he sat (the table at the center of the room, and the booth in the far right corner). Someone on the staff monitors "the whole situation on Instagram and TikTok," Mr. Fahim said. If Mr. Styles is in town -- as he was for two weeks in the fall, when the cafe ran out of menu items and merchandise -- they double up on staff and supplies.
On the Saturday of Mr. Styles's concert run at the Forum, a line started forming outside of the cafe an hour before opening. It included Emma Szumowski, 21, from Massachusetts, who stood with her parents, Laura and Steve McMahon. The concert she'd gone to the previous evening was her sixth time seeing Mr. Styles. She had tickets for one more show in Los Angeles and two in Palm Springs that week.
"I get it, I'm a big Springsteen fan -- I started following him around in '84," said Mr. McMahon, 58, who, at his daughter's request, had gotten up early to be second in line.
The line snaked past the dry cleaners and into the square. At 8:40 a.m., Nicholas Braun, the actor who plays Cousin Greg on "Succession," joined it -- appearing slightly bewildered by the crowd -- and then left before he was seated.
Across the street, Jim Krantz, 67, and Brian Burchfield, 59, Beachwood Canyon residents, stood outside the Hollywoodland Realty building, taking in the scene.
"I mean, this was like 'Mayberry R.F.D.' -- but not anymore," said Mr. Krantz, sipping a mug of tea and referencing the 1968 spinoff of "The Andy Griffith Show" -- a sentence likely to draw a blank with the teenage girls filming their breakfast burritos across the street.
"I think it's fascinating, a social phenomenon," he added. "But it's a bit of an inconvenience when it comes to being able to do your daily life up here."
Wait times were between two and three hours throughout the weekend. At one point on Saturday, the diners inside the cafe broke out into a loud rendition of "Falling." Before the wave of Styles fans, Mr. Fahim typically served 300 guests from Friday to Sunday; he now serves 1,000 on average. The locals still come, but they often grumble about the wait times and lack of parking -- and if they see a line, they steer clear.
Most fans agreed that this was no longer a place where Mr. Styles was likely to set foot. This realization sometimes prompted fan conspiracy theories -- did he mention the cafe because he knew it would send fans flocking there, and it was too painful a place to return because of its romantic history there? But even if that were the case, "it's cool to envision him sitting in there being all sad and lonely," said Bryn Langrock, 23.
And if Mr. Styles did dine at Beachwood Cafe again, Mr. Fahim says he knows what he'd tell him: "Thank you."
Photograph Marley Williams of Claremore, Okla., and Noelle Jay of Chicago at Beachwood Cafe. (ST1); This article appeared in print on page Beachwood Cafe in Los Angeles, where Harry Styles once ordered eggs, is now a destination for his fans, thanks to a lyric, "And the coffee's out at the Beachwood Cafe." The twins Jennifer Sata Ayala and Jessica Sata Ayala, below, came from Guanajuato, Mexico, to see him in concert and visit the cafe. Some fans bring mini-Harrys. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCESCA FORQUET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST4) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST4.

Subject: Families & family life; Restaurants; Coffee

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Beachwood Canyon; Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/04/style/harry-styles-fans-beachwood-cafe.html

Title: Harry Styles Ate Here. Fans Flock.:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347534

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-fans-flock/docview/2775347534/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harry Styles Ate Here. His Fans Will Now Eat Here Forever.

Author: Creeden, Molly

Publication info: Creeden, Molly. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-his-fans-will-now-eat/docview/2772537192/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
At 9:30 a.m. on a Thursday, the Harrys began to arrive at Beachwood Cafe. Young women with neon hair extensions, colorful crocheted cardigans and shirts illustrated with cherries, sunflowers and the word “Pleasing” piled out of rental cars and Ubers. They were trailed by their mothers and filming on their phones. By 10:30, the mom-and pop eatery, which has been around since the 1970s in the heart of Los Angeles’ Beachwood Canyon, had a 30-minute wait, and a swarm of teenage girls taking photos in front of its blue door.
Who are the Harrys? They are Harry Styles superfans, and hordes of them have been making the pilgrimage to Beachwood Cafe, a cheerful spot with an all-day menu off a small village square, since December 2019. That’s when the superstar briefly name-checked the restaurant in the song “Falling”: “And the coffee’s out at the Beachwood Cafe,” he sang. That one line — which Styles-olgoists believe to be about his ex Camille Rowe, a former Beachwood Canyon resident — sent a bat signal.
“I just felt like coming here would complete the whole Harry Styles experience,” said Caysey Gossweiler, 27, who traveled from Maryland to attend one of the three concerts that Styles would perform at the Kia Forum that weekend in late January.
“It’s panic-inducing; I could literally evaporate thinking about it,” said Noelle Jay, 26, of being in the same space where Styles once ate eggs. “He’s like a god,” added her cousin Mia Tucci, 17, whose hair was a shade of Kelly green. “He’s like my comfort person, my light, my inspiration, all of the above,” Jay replied.
Nearby, Nathan Freeman, 26, and his wife, Shannon Freeman, 25, were taking photos of Taylor Anderson and Alyson Johnston — 20-year-old college students from Oregon they had just met. “It was like — where should we go for breakfast? Harry told us where to go!” Nathan Freeman said gleefully.
The couple, who wore matching crop top and bell bottom ensembles to attend the concert at the Forum, had spent the previous day at Sycamore Cove Beach in Malibu, where fans say Styles filmed the videos for “Watermelon Sugar” and the One Direction song “What Makes You Beautiful.”
“She ran and screamed and fan-girled,” Nathan Freeman said, describing his wife’s behavior upon arriving at the beach. “I was like, ah!” he shrieked. “I love this for you!”
Shannon Freeman said she admired Styles for his kindness. “I’ve never seen a scandal from him ever — which is amazing.”
Over avocado toast at a table inside, Anderson — who made her family do a detour during an Amalfi Coast vacation to visit a street where Styles filmed parts of the “Golden” music video (she found the location by searching Google Maps for landmarks in the background of the behind-the-scenes video) — offered her perspective on the fandom. “It’s a family in a lot of ways,” she said. “A good example of how the online world connects people.”
Johnston finished watching a video on her phone of Styles doing Pilates, via the fan account Harry Florals, and added: “You can just kind of look at someone, and if they’re our age and wearing clothes that resemble the Harry style it’s like, OK, these are people you can talk to who are nice.”
“The term is ‘Harry coded,’” explained Xoee Margolis, 26, who was wearing neon orange Adidas Gazelles (inspired by ones Styles wears from the Gucci/Adidas collaboration). She held two new Beachwood Market totes in her hand, which she’d seen while browsing the cafe’s merchandise section online from her home in New York City. “Wearing a little cherry is an ode to the ‘Cherry’ song, carrying around a Beachwood bag the shoes are Harry-coded — it’s a vibe.”
“I made the mistake of not bringing in merch earlier,” said the cafe’s owner, Mike Fahim. But when he discovered eBay and Etsy accounts selling knockoff merchandise for his restaurant, he saw a business opportunity.
When Fahim took over the cafe in fall 2019, the crowd was a mix of locals, tourists headed to the nearby Hollywood sign, business lunches from film studios, and celebrities flying under the radar. In early 2020, the clientele started shifting to Gen Z girls and young women — some of whom bring cardboard cutouts of Styles for photos — and, in some cases, their parents.
Fahim, who had never heard of Styles, embraced the affiliation.
Now, the tip jar says “Harry Tips Here.” A sign depicted in a mural declares “The Coffee’s Out,” referring to the line in the song featuring Beachwood. And he and his staff are happy to take photos and answer fans’ questions about what Styles is said to have eaten (the Beachwood Scramble), and where he sat (the table at the center of the room, and the booth in the far right corner). Someone on the staff monitors “the whole situation on Instagram and TikTok,” Fahim said. If Styles is in town — as he was for two weeks in the fall, when the cafe ran out of menu items and merchandise — they double up on staff and supplies.
On the Saturday of Styles’ concert run at the Forum, a line started forming outside the cafe an hour before opening. It included Emma Szumowski, 21, from Massachusetts, who stood with her parents, Laura and Steve McMahon. The concert she’d gone to the previous evening was her sixth time seeing Styles. She had tickets for one more show in Los Angeles and two in Palm Springs that week.
“I get it, I’m a big Springsteen fan — I started following him around in ’84,” said Steve McMahon, 58, who, at his daughter’s request, had gotten up early to be second in line.
The line snaked past the dry cleaners and into the square. At 8:40 a.m., Nicholas Braun, an actor who plays Cousin Greg on “Succession,” joined it — appearing slightly bewildered by the crowd — and then left before he was seated.
Across the street, Jim Krantz, 67, and Brian Burchfield, 59, Beachwood Canyon residents, stood outside the Hollywoodland Realty building, taking in the scene.
“I mean, this was like ‘Mayberry R.F.D.’ — but not anymore,” said Krantz, sipping a mug of tea and referencing the 1968 spinoff of “The Andy Griffith Show” — a sentence likely to draw a blank with the teenage girls filming their breakfast burritos across the street.
“I think it’s fascinating, a social phenomenon,” he added. “But it’s a bit of an inconvenience when it comes to being able to do your daily life up here.”
Wait times were between two and three hours throughout the weekend. At one point Saturday, the diners inside the cafe broke out into a loud rendition of “Falling.” Before the wave of Styles fans, Fahim typically served 300 guests from Friday to Sunday; he now serves 1,000 on average. The locals still come, but they often grumble about the wait times and lack of parking — and if they see a line, they steer clear.
Most fans agreed that this was no longer a place where Styles was likely to set foot. This realization sometimes prompted fan conspiracy theories — did he mention the cafe because he knew it would send fans flocking there, and it was too painful a place to return because of its romantic history there? But even if that were the case, “it’s cool to envision him sitting in there being all sad and lonely,” said Bryn Langrock, 23.
And if Styles did dine at Beachwood Cafe again, Fahim says he knows what he’d tell him: “Thank you.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Families & family life; Restaurants

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

Location: Beachwood Canyon; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Styles, Harry

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Google Inc; Maryland; Griffith, Andy; Instagram Inc; Oregon; Massachusetts; Palm Springs (Calif); Ebay Inc; Etsy Inc; New York City; Google Maps; Tiktok (Bytedance); L A Forum (Inglewood, Calif); Kia Motors Corp; Cherry (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Adidas Ag; Los Angeles (Calif); Braun, Nicholas (1988 ); Styles, Harry; One Direction (Music Group); Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Cooking And Cookbooks; Beaches; Maps; Cryptography, Codes And Ciphers; Automobiles; Fruit; Generation Z; Exercise; Advertising And Marketing; Social Media; Computers And The Internet; Sugar; Youth; Music; Hair; Travel And Vacations; Teenagers And Adolescence; Restaurants; Parenting; Flowers And Plants; Fans (Persons); Movies; Handicrafts; Photography

Title: Harry Styles Ate Here. His Fans Will Now Eat Here Forever.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 4, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-04 @ 21:11

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2772537192

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harry-styles-ate-here-his-fans-will-now-eat/docview/2772537192/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyrigh t New York Times Company Feb 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ford Lost $2 Billion in '22 As Two Investments Soured: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-lost-2-billion-22-as-two-investments-soured/docview/2771842760/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The company's financial performance was hurt by its stake in Rivian, an electric truck company, and an autonomous car business.
Ford Motor said on Thursday that it lost $ 2.2 billion in 2022 as it wrote down the value of two big investments and struggled with high costs and supply chain problems.
The company wrote down its investments in Rivian, a young electric truck maker, by $ 7.4 billion and Argo AI, a company developing autonomous vehicles, by $ 2.8 billion last year. Ford said on Thursday that it had almost completely sold its stake in Rivian. In October, Ford said Argo was winding down.
The automaker said its revenue had risen about 16 percent, to $ 158 billion, mainly because of higher car prices. The company sold 4.2 million vehicles worldwide, up from 3.9 million in 2021.
Ford has long struggled to reduce defects and recalls in its cars and trucks. Recalls can be expensive and time consuming, and company executives said on Thursday that they were working to improve the reliability of their vehicles.
"In simple terms, we need to improve quality and lower costs now," the company's chief financial officer, John Lawler, said in a conference call.
Ford's performance was also hurt by a $ 600 million loss stemming from its joint ventures in China and about $ 12 billion in special expenses, including those related to Argo and Rivian, which has lost much of its value since it listed on the stock exchange in November 2021.
Excluding the special expenses, interest and taxes, Ford made a $ 10.4 billion profit last year, it said, roughly as much as in 2021.
"We should have done much better last year," the company's chief executive, Jim Farley, said in a statement.
In the last three months of the year, Ford had a $ 1.3 billion profit, a steep drop from a year earlier, when it booked a large gain from its stake in Rivian. Ford's revenue in the final three months of 2022 rose 17 percent, to $ 44 billion.
The company sold 1.15 million vehicles in the fourth quarter, an increase from 1.1 million a year earlier but about 500,000 fewer than Ford had expected, Mr. Lawler said.
Ford's production has been slowed by the global shortage of computer chips, and Mr. Lawler said the company expected some disruptions to continue this year and a slight increase in production volume.
"In 2023, there is still going to be volatility on chips," he said. "On the older chips used in the auto industry, there is still capacity constraint."
Ford said it expected this year's adjusted earnings before interest and taxes to range between $ 9 billion and $ 11 billion.
Shares of Ford stock were down about 7 percent in extended trading on Thursday.
Earlier in the day, Ford said that its sales of cars and trucks in the United States increased 2 percent in January and that its sales of electric vehicles more than doubled in the month.
The automaker sold 145,070 cars and light trucks last month, up from 142,445 in January 2022, when a shortage of computer chips slowed production and left dealers with few vehicles to sell. At the end of January, Ford had 370,000 vehicles on dealer lots, up from 201,000 a year earlier, a strong signal that supply chain problems were easing.
Models responsible for the increase included pickup trucks, the Bronco sport utility vehicle and battery-powered models. Ford sold 2,264 electric F-150 Lightning pickup trucks, up from just 63 in January 2022, when the vehicle had just become available. It also sold 2,626 Mustang Mach-E electric S.U.V.s, up 11 percent.
Ford halted production of the Mach-E in January while modifying its plant in Cuautitlán, just north of Mexico City, to increase output. Production will restart this month, the company said.
On Wednesday, Honda, Hyundai and Kia reported sales increases of 9 percent to 22 percent, also as a result of improved supplies of vehicles. But Toyota said its January sales fell 15 percent to 134,392 cars and trucks.
Photograph Ford sold 2,264 electric F-150 Lightning pickup trucks in January, up from just 63 in January 2022. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRITTANY GREESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Supply chains; Investments; Semiconductors; Corporate profits; Trucks; Vehicles; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Supply chains Corporate profits Automobile dealers

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/02/business/ford-earnings-fourth-quarter-2022.html

Title: Ford Lost $2 Billion in '22 As Two Investments Soured:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 3, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771842760

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-lost-2-billion-22-as-two-investments-soured/docview/2771842760/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ford Lost $2 Billion in 2022 as Some Investments Soured

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-lost-2-billion-2022-as-some-investments/docview/2771789803/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Ford Motor said Thursday that it lost $2.2 billion in 2022 as it wrote down the value of two big investments and struggled with high costs and supply chain problems.
The company wrote down its investments in Rivian, a young electric truck maker, by $7.4 billion and Argo AI, a company developing autonomous vehicles, by $2.8 billion last year. Ford said Thursday that it had almost completely sold its stake in Rivian. In October, Ford said Argo was winding down.
The automaker said its revenue had risen about 16%, to $158 billion, mainly because of higher car prices. The company sold 4.2 million vehicles worldwide, up from 3.9 million in 2021.
Ford has long struggled to reduce defects and recalls in its cars and trucks. Recalls can be expensive and time consuming, and company executives said Thursday that they were working to improve the reliability of their vehicles.
“In simple terms, we need to improve quality and lower costs now,” the company’s chief financial officer, John Lawler, said in a conference call.
Ford’s performance was also hurt by a $600 million loss stemming from its joint ventures in China and about $12 billion in special expenses, including those related to Argo and Rivian, which has lost much of its value since it listed on the stock exchange in November 2021.
Excluding the special expenses, interest and taxes, Ford made a $10.4 billion profit last year, it said, roughly as much as in 2021.
“We should have done much better last year,” CEO Jim Farley said in a statement.
In the last three months of the year, Ford had a $1.3 billion profit, a steep drop from a year earlier, when it booked a large gain from its stake in Rivian. Ford’s revenue in the final three months of 2022 rose 17%, to $44 billion.
The company sold 1.15 million vehicles in the fourth quarter, an increase from 1.1 million a year earlier but about 500,000 fewer than Ford had expected, Lawler said.
Ford’s production has been slowed by the global shortage of computer chips, and Lawler said the company expected some disruptions to continue this year and a slight increase in production volume.
“In 2023, there is still going to be volatility on chips,” he said. “On the older chips used in the auto industry, there is still capacity constraint.”
Ford said it expected this year’s adjusted earnings before interest and taxes to range between $9 billion and $11 billion.
Shares of Ford stock were down about 7% in extended trading Thursday.
Earlier in the day, Ford said that its sales of cars and trucks in the United States increased 2% in January and that its sales of electric vehicles more than doubled in the month.
The automaker sold 145,070 cars and light trucks last month, up from 142,445 in January 2022, when a shortage of computer chips slowed production and left dealers with few vehicles to sell. At the end of last month, Ford had 370,000 vehicles on dealer lots, up from 201,000 a year earlier, a strong signal that supply chain problems were easing.
Models responsible for the increase included pickup trucks, the Bronco SUV and battery-powered models. Ford sold 2,264 electric F-150 Lightning pickup trucks, up from just 63 in January 2022, when the vehicle had just become available. It also sold 2,626 Mustang Mach-E electric SUVs, up 11%.
Ford halted production of the Mach-E in January while modifying its plant in Cuautitlán, just north of Mexico City, to increase output. Production will restart this month, the company said.
On Wednesday, Honda, Hyundai and Kia reported sales increases of 9% to 22%, also as a result of improved supplies of vehicles. But Toyota said its January sales fell 15%, to 134,392 cars and trucks. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Supply chains; Investments; Semiconductors; Corporate profits; Electric vehicles; Trucks; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Supply chains Corporate profits Automobile dealers

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Rivian Automotive LLC; NAICS: 336211

Identifier / keyword: Business; Argo Ai; China; Farley, James D Jr (1962 ); Rivian Automotive Llc; Boudette, Neal E; Trucks And Trucking; Production; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); Stocks And Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Two Thousand Twenty Two; Mexico; Mexico City (Mexico); Hyundai Motor Co; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Toyota Motor Corp; United States; Ford Motor Co; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Company Reports; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles

Title: Ford Lost $2 Billion in 2022 as Some Investments Soured

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-02 @ 19:57

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771789803

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-lost-2-billion-2022-as-some-investments/docview/2771789803/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ford Said Sales in January Increased 2%

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-said-sales-january-increased-2/docview/2771675708/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Ford Motor said Thursday that sales of cars and trucks in the United States increased 2% in January as supply chain problems eased. Sales of electric vehicles more than doubled in the month.
The automaker sold 145,070 cars and light trucks last month, compared with 142,445 vehicles in January 2022, when its production was slowed by a shortage of computer chips, leaving dealers with few vehicles to sell. At the end of last month, Ford had 370,000 vehicles on dealer lots, up from 201,000 a year earlier.
Models responsible for the increase included pickup trucks, Bronco SUVs and battery-powered models. Ford sold 2,264 electric F-150 Lightning pickup trucks, up from just 63 in January 2022, when the vehicle had just become available. It also sold 2,626 Mustang Mach-E electric SUVs, up 11%.
Ford halted production of the Mach-E in January while modifying its plant in Cuautitlán, just north of Mexico City, to increase output. The company said production would restart this month.
On Wednesday, Honda, Hyundai and Kia reported sales increases of 9% to 22%, also as a result of improved supplies of vehicles. But Toyota said its January sales fell 15%, to 134,392 cars and trucks.
Ford is expected to release its earnings report for 2022 and the last three months of last year Thursday afternoon. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Electric vehicles; Trucks; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile dealers

Location: New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Business; Mexico; Mexico City (Mexico); Hyundai Motor Co; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Toyota Motor Corp; United States; Ford Motor Co; Kia Motors Corp; Supply Chain; Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Company Reports; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles

Title: Ford Said Sales in January Increased 2%

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-02 @ 12:30

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771675708

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-said-sales-january-increased-2/docview/2771675708/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

G.M. Reports Strong Profits as It Moves to Challenge Tesla: [Correction]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/g-m-reports-strong-profits-as-moves-challenge/docview/2771206453/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Aiming to make a million electric vehicles a year by 2025, General Motors is investing in a Nevada lithium mine to help with battery production.
General Motors on Tuesday reported solid profits for 2022, after overcoming the computer chip shortages and softening demand that has slowed much of the auto industry last year.
The company reported $ 9.9 billion in net income, slightly below the total from the year before, while revenue rose 23 percent to $ 157 billion. It sold 3.6 million vehicles globally, up from 2.9 million in 2021.
"Our team rose to every challenge that was thrown at them in 2022," G.M.'s chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said in a conference call.
In the fourth quarter, when rising interest rates began to slow sales of new cars and trucks, G.M. generated $ 2 billion in profit, an increase of 15 percent from a year earlier. Revenue rose 28 percent to $ 43 billion. Vehicle sales increased 30 percent to 967,000.
G.M. shares rose more than 8 percent in trading on Tuesday, closing above $ 39.
The automaker forecast that profit in 2023 will be $ 8.7 billion to $ 10.1 billion. "We expect that our momentum will help us deliver strong results once again in 2023," Ms. Barra said.
She also said G.M. would seek to cut costs by about $ 2 billion and expected to reduce its work force through attrition. "We are not planning layoffs," she said.
In electric vehicles, G.M. has been gearing up to compete head-on with Tesla, the leader. G.M. said that it expected to produce about 400,000 electric vehicles from 2022 through the first half of 2024, and that it would be capable of annual E.V. production of more than one million in North America in 2025.
A new battery plant in Ohio began production in August, and a second battery plant is to open in Tennessee this year. The company has started selling some high-end electric vehicles using battery packs made in Ohio, and it expects its E.V. sales to increase this year as it adds more affordable models, like an electric Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck and electric Chevrolet Equinox and Blazer sport utility vehicles.
All told, G.M. should have nine electric models available in the United States by the end of the year, Ms. Barra said.
To support its E.V. push, G.M. announced Tuesday, it is investing $ 650 million in a mining company, Lithium America, to develop a Nevada mine extracting lithium, a key battery ingredient. Production there is expected to start in 2026, Ms. Barra said.
But competition is getting keener. Automakers including Ford Motor, Volkswagen, Hyundai and Kia have also rushed new E.V.s to the U.S. market. And on Monday, Ford cut prices of its Mustang Mach-E electric S.U.V., after Tesla cut its prices in mid-January by as much as 20 percent.
Garrett Nelson, an analyst with the financial research firm CFRA, said more than 100 E.V. models would be offered in the U.S. market by 2025. "We view the risk of market oversaturation as very high, and an industry pricing war should pressure margins," he said. "We remain skeptical that G.M. will achieve sales success with many of its new E.V. models."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Corporate profits; Electric vehicles; Automobile industry; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits Automobile industry

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

Title: G.M. Reports Strong Profits as It Moves to Challenge Tesla:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 1, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771206453

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/g-m-reports-strong-profits-as-moves-challenge/docview/2771206453/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Following Tesla's Example, Ford Slashes Prices on E.V.s: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/following-teslas-example-ford-slashes-prices-on-e/docview/2770841670/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The automaker reduced the price of the Mustang Mach-E by up to $ 5,900 after Tesla slashed prices of its cars by as much as 20 percent.
Ford Motor said on Monday that it was cutting prices on its top-selling battery-powered model, the Mustang Mach-E, and increasing production of the sport utility vehicle. It was the latest sign of intensifying competition in the electric car market.
Two weeks ago, Tesla slashed prices of its electric cars by as much as 20 percent in response to softening demand around the world.
The price cuts for the two most affordable versions of the Mach-E amounted to less than $ 1,000 each. Other models, with longer-range batteries and premium options, were reduced $ 3,680 to $ 5,900, reductions of 6 percent to 9 percent.
"We want to make E.V.s more accessible, so we're increasing production and reducing prices across the Mach-E lineup," Ford's chief executive, Jim Farley, said on Twitter. He added that "with higher production, we're reducing costs, which allows us to share these savings with customers."
The lowest-priced Mustang Mach-E -- a rear-wheel-drive model with a standard battery -- now has a list price of $ 45,995, a reduction of $ 900. The high-performance Mach-E GT with an extended-range battery now sells for $ 63,995, a cut of $ 5,900.
Tesla's least expensive car is the Model 3, which is smaller than the Mustang Mach-E and starts at $ 43,990. The all-wheel-drive Model Y, a more direct competitor of the electric Mustang, starts at $ 53,490. An all-wheel-drive Mustang Mach-E with comparable battery range now lists for $ 53,995.
Electric vehicles priced below $ 55,000 can qualify for federal tax credits of $ 7,500 that were made available starting Jan. 1 under the Inflation Reduction Act. Ford's price cuts will make more versions of the Mach-E eligible for the credit.
Ford said the new prices would automatically apply to customers who had placed orders and were waiting for their cars. Ford's credit division is also offering subsidized interest rates as low as 5.34 percent on Mach E orders placed between Jan. 30 and April 3.
Tesla has long dominated the electric car market, which it largely had to itself until the last couple of years, but is increasingly encountering stiff competition. Its rate of growth has slowed in China, where its is now outsold by a local manufacturer, BYD. In addition to Ford, Volkswagen, Hyundai, Kia and other automakers have introduced electric models in the United States that are selling well and are generally cheaper than Tesla's luxury models.
In 2022, Ford sold just under 40,000 Mach-Es, about 45 percent more than in 2021. That made the Mach-E the third-best-selling electric model after Tesla's Model Y and Model 3.
For much of the last two years, Tesla, Ford and other automakers raised prices of electric vehicles because demand for battery-powered cars far outstripped supply. But demand for cars and other big-ticket goods has weakened in recent months as the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates significantly. Fed policymakers are expected to slow their rate increases at their first meeting of the year on Wednesday.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Automobile industry; Interest rates; Electric vehicles; Price cuts

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Interest rates Price cuts

Company / organization: Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336 390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/30/business/ford-mustang-electric-prices.html

Title: Following Tesla's Example, Ford Slashes Prices on E.V.s:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 31, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770841670

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/following-teslas-example-ford-slashes-prices-on-e/docview/2770841670/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ford Follows Tesla in Cutting Electric Vehicle Prices

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-follows-tesla-cutting-electric-vehicle/docview/2770764061/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Ford Motor said Monday it was cutting prices on its top-selling battery-powered model, the Mustang Mach-E, and was increasing production of the sport utility vehicle. It was the latest sign of intensifying competition in the electric car market.
Two weeks ago, Tesla slashed prices of its electric cars by as much as 20% in response to softening demand around the world.
The price cuts for the two most affordable versions of the Mach-E amounted to less than $1,000 each. Other models, with longer-range batteries and premium options, were reduced $3,680 to $5,900, reductions of 6% to 9%.
“We want to make EVs more accessible, so we’re increasing production and reducing prices across the Mach-E lineup,” Ford’s CEO, Jim Farley, said on Twitter. He added that “with higher production, we’re reducing costs, which allows us to share these savings with customers.”
The lowest priced Mustang Mach-E — a rear-wheel drive model with a standard battery — now has a list price of $45,995, a reduction of $900. The high-performance Mach-E GT with an extended-range battery now sells for $63,995, a cut of $5,900.
Tesla’s least expensive car is the Model 3, which is smaller than the Mustang Mach-E, and starts at $43,990. The all-wheel drive Model Y, a more direct competitor of the electric Mustang, starts at $53,490. An all-wheel drive Mustang Mach-E with comparable battery range now lists for $53,995.
Electric vehicles priced below $55,000 can qualify for federal tax credits of $7,500 that were made available starting Jan. 1 under the Inflation Reduction Act. Ford’s price cuts will make more versions of the Mach-E eligible for the credit.
Ford said the new prices would automatically apply to customers who had placed orders and were waiting for their cars. Ford’s credit division is also offering subsidized interest rates of as low as 5.34% on Mach E orders placed between Jan. 30 and April 3.
Tesla has long dominated the electric car market, which it largely had to itself until the past couple of years, but is increasingly encountering stiff competition. Its rate of growth has slowed in China, where it is now outsold by a local manufacturer, BYD. In addition to Ford, Volkswagen, Hyundai, Kia and other automakers have introduced electric models in the United States that are selling well and are generally cheaper than Tesla’s luxury models.
In 2022, Ford sold just under 40,000 Mach-Es, about 45% more than in 2021. That made the Mach-E the third bestselling electric model after Tesla’s Model Y and Model 3.
For much of the past two years, Tesla, Ford and other automakers raised prices of electric vehicles because demand for battery-powered cars far outstripped supply. But demand for cars and other big-ticket goods has weakened in recent months as the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates significantly. Fed policymakers are expected to slow their rate increases at their first meeting of the year on Wednesday. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Automobile industry; Interest rates; Electric vehicles; Price cuts

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Interest rates Price cuts

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

Identifier / keyword: Business; United States; Hyundai Motor Co; Volkswagen Ag; Twitter; China; Farley, James D Jr (1962 ); Federal Reserve System; Byd Co Ltd; Ford Motor Co; Kia Motors Corp; Tesla Motors Inc; Luxury Goods And Services; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Rationing And Allocation Of Resources; Inflation (Economics); Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Discount Selling; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Batteries; Inflation Reduction Act Of 2022; Production; Automobiles

Title: Ford Follows Tesla in Cutting Electric Vehicle Prices

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 30, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-30 @ 14:59

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest documentID: 2770764061

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ford-follows-tesla-cutting-electric-vehicle/docview/2770764061/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Daring to Dream With Bills Fans From the '90s, And Their Kids: [Sports Desk]

Author: Nocera, Joe

Publication info: Nocera, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/daring-dream-with-bills-fans-90s-their-kids/docview/2766605813/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Stephen Soroka was 10 years old in January 1991 when the Buffalo Bills made their first Super Bowl appearance. He lived in East Aurora, N.Y., about a 20-minute drive from Buffalo. Everyone he knew was caught up in the excitement of what seemed like a certain championship.
The Bills had gone 13-3 in the regular season and steamrollered the Dolphins and Raiders in the playoffs. On Super Bowl Sunday, Soroka's father held a party, borrowing a big TV from his parents, and putting his family's small TV in the kitchen "so that if someone had to run to the kitchen for some food, they could still watch the game."
The euphoria that had built in the weeks before the game collapsed in an instant.
The Bills were trailing the Giants by 20-19 late in the fourth quarter, when Buffalo quarterback Jim Kelly drove the team to within field goal range. With eight seconds left, kicker Scott Norwood lined up a 47-yard attempt and missed -- wide right.
"I remember falling down and crying," Soroka said.
Benny the Butcher, the prominent Buffalo rapper who was born Jeremie Pennick, was also a young boy who watched that Super Bowl at a family party. But his mother was so upset when the Bills lost that, he said, "we just up and left."
"My mom didn't say goodbye to nobody," he continued. "She grabbed my hand and walked so fast I could hardly keep up."
Buffalo made it to Super Bowls the next three seasons and lost each of those, too. While none of the later defeats had the same sting as the first, they left an indelible imprint on young fans like Soroka and Pennick. For kids in the 1990s, having their hearts broken by the Bills was part of growing up.
Now that they're adults, that generation of fans feels a familiar set of expectations setting in. The Bills, who won the A.F.C. East with a 13-3 record, have been favored all season to win the Super Bowl behind quarterback Josh Allen, a candidate for the Most Valuable Player Award. The team's storybook kickoff return to open its first game after Damar Hamlin's collapse and its rally to beat the Dolphins in the wild-card round have again built anticipation for what the Bills might achieve.
The Bills' success has also been a source of solace and joy for the region during a difficult year. Last May, a gunman killed 10 Black people in a racist massacre at a Buffalo supermarket; two horrific snowstorms caused more than 40 deaths this winter; Hamlin, a Bills safety, went into cardiac arrest during a Jan. 2 game in Cincinnati, and his recovery has turned the games since into a communal catharsis for the team's fans. "The Bills," says Sean Kirst, a columnist for The Buffalo News, "bind this community together, in good times and bad."
Many of those young fans from the 1990s have their own children now, and it got me wondering: What had the repeated heartbreak of Bills fandom taught them about football? About life? What of those lessons are they passing on?
So many of the rituals are the same today as they were then. Pennick remembers that his elementary school encouraged kids to wear Bills gear on the Fridays before games -- just like Buffalo schools are doing now.
Shola Clark, who was 7 in 1991, recalls that her family would always have a pregame party at home; it was like tailgating without the tailgate. Her grandfather, Billie Banks, would always make a delicious gumbo at a relative's home, she said. These days are similar: Fans all over the Buffalo area gather with friends and family to eat, drink and root for the Bills.
Clark, a dispatcher for the Buffalo Fire Department, said that during the worst of the snowstorm on Christmas Eve, the volume of emergency calls dropped during the three hours the Bills played the Chicago Bears.
Glenn MacBlane, a teenager in 1991, used to cut out newspaper photos of players like Kelly and running back Thurman Thomas and paste them in a scrapbook. His younger sister Amanda remembers that for a seventh-grade art project she drew a portrait of Andre Reed, the team's star receiver. These days, kids all over the Buffalo area are clipping pictures of Allen, drawing portraits of the star receiver Stefon Diggs, and crafting posters in support of Hamlin.
"They were your team," says Zach Calleri, who was 8 in 1991. "You never walked away from the team or left them for a different team that might be better at the time."
There is something else important about the relationship between the Bills and the Bills Mafia, as their fan base is now called. "This is a segregated city," said Clark, whose family owns the city's Black newspaper, The Challenger Community News. But, she added, "when you're in that stadium, race doesn't matter. Everybody's showing love. Everybody's high-fiving."
When I asked millennial Bills fans what comfort they got after that first Super Bowl loss, all remembered that the city held a big rally for the team when it flew back to Buffalo from Florida.
Norwood, the dejected kicker, was among those who addressed the crowd. In other cities, bigger cities, he might have been booed. But in Buffalo that day he was cheered. And that became a kind of lesson in itself.
"One of the really heartwarming things about that Super Bowl, as painful as it was, was the way Scott Norwood was accepted by the community and never shunned," said Amanda MacBlane, who remains fiercely loyal to the Bills even though she and her family now live in Manhattan.
The message that came through was that you didn't just root for the Bills -- you rallied around them when times were tough. That may help explain why Kelly, who vowed never to play for the Bills when he was first drafted, still lives in the Buffalo area.
Another lesson, of course, is that no matter how devastating a loss might be, life goes on. The millennial parents I spoke to all felt that was something they had to learn on their own.
Those first few days of school after the Super Bowl, they said, teachers were as sad and speechless as they were. Some parents needed weeks to get over the game. "The only people I remember talking to were other kids," said Andy Schultz, another East Aurora, N.Y. native. "We would talk about how downtrodden we were." In its full-on embrace of the Bills that season, Buffalo had forgotten that a game is just a game.
Three decades later, those parents I spoke to are determined not to make the same mistake with their own children.
Schultz, who has three boys who range in age from 4 to 11, recalls the brutal loss against Kansas City in a divisional-round playoff game last season. The lead changed three times in the last two minutes of the fourth quarter, including when Allen threw a go-ahead touchdown pass with just 13 seconds left. Victory seemed assured -- until Patrick Mahomes led Kansas City into field-goal range and Harrison Butker drilled a game-tying 49-yard kick as regulation expired. Kansas City then won it in overtime.
"It was just this roller coaster of emotion," Schultz said. "You can't help but get caught up in it. But then when it's over, you have to step back and remind your kids that this is a game. We're here to have fun. Nobody's throwing anything at the TV or anything like that."
When Hamlin collapsed during a Jan. 2 game against the Bengals, Amanda MacBlane was watching at home with her children. She has talked to them about brain injuries and won't let them play tackle, but the family hasn't quite reconciled its love for football with its brutality.
"We were talking over the next few days about how many heroes there were in this story," she said. "The Bills and Bengals throwing aside the competition in the name of the health of another player. The first responders who kept Damar alive. All the many people came together to take care of each other."
She also told me that her read from talking to Bills fans nonstop over the past few weeks was that if the team were to lose in the playoffs, people would take it much more in stride because Hamlin's injury had brought home what really matters.
I spoke to Calleri in mid-November, days after the Bills had lost a sloppy game to the Minnesota Vikings, 33-30, in overtime.
"There's a lot of hype around us this year," he said. It's easy to let that take you over, but then there are games like Sunday's. After it was over, he told his 8-year-old son, Elwood, "Yeah, I really wish we had won today but it's OK. You're not going to win every game, right? You accept it and move forward."
Soroka's three children can't help but remind him of himself when he was their age. His two boys, Henry, 9, and James, 4, wanted to be Bills players for Halloween, which didn't require much since they already had all the gear. Whenever the Bills score a touchdown his oldest child, 11-year-old Ella, breaks into the team's "shout song." (Sung to the original Isley Brothers melody, it begins, "The Bills make me want to shout/Kick your heels up and shout...") James has already learned that Bills fans don't root for Tom Brady or Mahomes.
Of all the parents I talked to, Soroka is the one who still ached over that Super Bowl loss. "We were the better team that year, and sometimes I just find myself thinking, 'What if we had won that year? What would that momentum have been like for the next three years?' I know I can't think like that because it takes me to a dark place. There's nothing I can do about the past, but every once in a while, I'll catch myself going there."
After that Kansas City loss last postseason, Soroka's son Henry started crying, and tried to go to his room. Soroka stopped him. "He came back to the living room, and we talked."
The father reminded the son that it was "awesome" that he cared so much about the Bills, but dwelling on the loss was a waste of time. Instead, he said, "Let's just try to take the positives from this year. We had great experiences watching it with family and friends. You just have to think about that and think about how the Bills will build on this for next year."
Amanda MacBlane fears that she's passed on to her two sons, Sam and Jonah, her own dread that the Bills will always find a way to lose. She told me that when Bills fans have babies, it's common for parents to send out photos of their newborns crying while wearing a Bills onesie. The caption reads, "Ready for a lifetime of disappointment?"
But when she thinks about growing up with those early 1990s teams, it no longer bothers her that they didn't win a Super Bowl. "Some of my happiest memories of us as a family were around the Bills," she said.
She added, "I still love that '90s team, I don't care that they didn't win a Super Bowl. And I would say that I feel the same way about this current team. I just feel fortunate to get to watch them play."
That may be the best lesson of all.
Kia Miakka Natisse contributed reporting.
Kia Miakka Natisse contributed reporting.
Photograph Top: James Soroka and his siblings are huge Bills fans. Above: Students at Elmwood Village Charter School Hertel wrote letters to Damar Hamlin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BESSEX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRENDAN BANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6); The Calleri family, left, in the garage on Thanksgiving Day, watching the Bills play the Detroit Lions. Zach Calleri, far right, who was 8 years old when the Bills lost the first of four straight Super Bowls, said his loyalty never faltered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BESSEX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Far left: The Soroka family in East Aurora, N.Y., watching the Bills on Nov. 20. Near left: The emotional last two weeks included the first game back after the Hamlin injury, top, and a playoff rally to beat Miami. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BESSEX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRENDAN BANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRYAN M. BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES) (B6-B7); From top: Jeffery Soroka and his niece, Ella, celebrated a win over Cleveland; Ella checked out her brother's Bills posters; from left, Leah Hamilton, Shola Clark and her daughter, Sanaa Jones, in Kenmore, N.Y., before the Thanksgiving game; students at School 33 in Buffalo wore team colors to an assembly. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BESSEX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRENDAN BANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Scott Norwood's missed field goal was the start of a bittersweet dynasty. (B7) This article appeared in print on page B6, B7.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Professional football; Families & family life; Cities

Location: United States--US; Kansas City Missouri

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/19/sports/football/buffalo-bills-fans-parents-kids.html

Title: Daring to Dream With Bills Fans From the '90s, And Their Kids:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 19, 2023

column: Essay

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766605813

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/daring-dream-with-bills-fans-90s-their-kids/docview/2766605813/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tesla Cuts Its Prices Sharply As It Moves to Lift Demand: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-cuts-prices-sharply-as-moves-lift-demand/docview/2765256355/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The price reductions in the United States will make more of the company's electric vehicles eligible for a federal tax credit.
Tesla has cut prices on most of its electric cars in the United States and Europe by as much as 20 percent in a bid to spur slackening demand.
The automaker faces increasingly stiff competition in the global market for electric vehicles. It also must contend with rising interest rates in the United States, which have increased the cost of financing vehicle purchases.
"I think Tesla recognizes they are not the only game in town and the Detroit companies are jumping into the deep end with E.V.s," said Dan Ives, a Wedbush analyst. "I think the price cuts mean Tesla is going to rip the Band-Aid off and try to go on the offensive."
Tesla stock fell sharply in early trading Friday after the price cuts were reported, but ended the day less than 1 percent lower. The share price has fallen roughly 70 percent since November 2021.
The cuts will allow some of Tesla's lower-priced models, depending on optional features, to qualify for federal tax credits of $ 7,500 that were made available starting Jan. 1 under the Inflation Reduction Act. The credit is available on electric cars priced under $ 55,000.
Tesla has enjoyed rapid growth for the last decade but now must contend with a variety of challenges, including concerns that its chief executive, Elon Musk, is too preoccupied with Twitter, the social media platform he acquired last year for $ 44 billion.
Mr. Musk has sold billions of dollars of Tesla stock to finance the Twitter acquisition, which has depressed Tesla's stock price, and he has come under fire for firing a large portion of Twitter's employees. He has also aired polarizing political views on the social media platform -- including several messages that appeared to support Russia in its war against Ukraine -- that have hurt his and Tesla's reputation with some consumers.
Tesla is not alone in dealing with slowing sales. U.S. auto sales fell about 8 percent last year to fewer than 14 million cars and trucks, the lowest level since 2011, mainly because shortages of computer chips prevented manufacturers from producing as many vehicles as consumers wanted to buy. In addition, rising borrowing rates made customer financing more expensive.
Sales of electric vehicles, however, rose 66 percent to more than 808,619, according to Kelley Blue Book, a market researcher. And while Tesla continues to dominate the segment, several automakers are gaining ground. Ford, Volkswagen and several other automakers posted sizable increases in E.V. sales last year and offer many models that were significantly more affordable than Tesla's. Hyundai and its affiliate Kia together sold more than 43,000 electric vehicles in the United States in 2022, up from a just few hundred in 2021.
New competitors are on the way, too. This year, General Motors is supposed to start making electric versions of its Chevrolet Silverado pickup and Chevrolet Blazer and Equinox sport utility vehicles.
Tesla has also had trouble in China, its largest market, where a local manufacturer, BYD, is now the No. 1 electric vehicle brand. Tesla recently lowered prices in China and reported a global sales total for 2022 that was below analysts' expectations.
While still hailed for the advanced technologies it packs into its cars, and their sleek styling, Tesla has been slow to add to its model line. It offers only four vehicles, and two are luxury models out of reach of most mainstream consumers. It last introduced a car in 2020, when the Model Y went into production.
Since 2019, Tesla has promised to introduce a pickup, called the Cybertruck, but has delayed its production several times. The company now hopes to begin making it this year. The Cybertruck has an angular, futuristic design and is expected to be sold as a luxury vehicle, which could limit its appeal. In the past, Mr. Musk has expressed a desire to produce an electric car that can sell for around $ 25,000, but he has laid out no formal plans.
In December, Tesla began delivering a small number of battery-powered semi trucks to PepsiCo, its first customer.
"We see demand problems remaining until Tesla is able to introduce a lower-priced offering in volume, which may only be in 2025," Toni Sacconaghi, a Bernstein analyst, said in a report this month.
In cutting the prices of its current models, Tesla is indicating that it is willing to concede some profit in order to increase sales volume. The company typically shows gross profit margins of 26 percent -- more than double that of some rival automakers -- a factor that led investors to bid up its stock, making it the world's most valuable car company.
The latest price cut on Tesla vehicles appeared on the company's website late Thursday. The automaker now shows a high-end Model 3 Performance compact selling in the United States for just under $ 54,000, down from $ 63,000, a cut of 14 percent.
The most affordable version of the Model 3 now sells for just under $ 44,000, a reduction of about $ 3,000 or 6 percent. The Model Y now starts at $ 53,000, a cut of 20 percent from the previous price of $ 66,000.
The company's websites for Germany, France and other European nations showed similar price cuts. The base Model 3 is now listed at 44,000 euros, a reduction of about 12 percent from the previous price.
In the past, Tesla's sales were helped by $ 7,500 tax credits provided by an earlier federal program. Those credits were no longer available after Tesla sold 200,000 vehicles in the U.S. market, but the company's sales continued to grow rapidly. Tesla has forecast that its sales will grow about 50 percent a year for the next few years.
Tesla sold 1.3 million cars in 2022, a 40 percent increase from the year before but short of the 50 percent target.
The company seemed to weather the computer chip shortage early in the pandemic better than most other automakers. Many had to idle plants temporarily at times because of shortages of certain electronic parts. Although Tesla, too, was affected, it said it was able to rewrite software that could run on substitute chips that were in more plentiful supply.
Tesla's fourth-quarter production of 440,000 cars was 34,000 more than the company delivered, suggesting that the sluggishness went beyond supply chain problems and production issues.
Photograph Tesla has been slow to add to its model line. It offers only four vehicles, and two are luxury models out of reach of most mainstream consumers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGER KISBY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Automobile industry; Corporate profits; Tax credits; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Price cuts; Demand

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Corporate profits Tax credits Automobile sales Price cuts Demand

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/13/business/tesla-price-cut.html

Title: Tesla Cuts Its Prices Sharply As It Moves to Lift Demand:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 14, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2765256355

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tesla-cuts-prices-sharply-as-moves-lift-demand/docview/2765256355/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Korean Solar Company Plans Georgia Plant: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Penn, Ivan

Publication info: Penn, Ivan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/korean-solar-company-plans-georgia-plant/docview/2764061533/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hanwha Qcells expects to make solar panels and their components in the United States to take advantage of President Biden's climate policies.
The climate and tax bill President Biden signed in August to increase the use of green energy and electric cars while expanding domestic manufacturing appears to be yielding some results.
A Korean solar company, Hanwha Qcells, announced on Wednesday that it would spend $ 2.5 billion to build a large manufacturing complex in Georgia. The plant will produce critical components for solar panels and build complete panels. If realized, the company's plans could bring some of the supply chain for solar energy, which is largely based in China, to the United States.
Qcells, which has its headquarters in Seoul, said it was making the investment to take advantage of tax credits and other benefits in the Inflation Reduction Act, the law Mr. Biden signed last summer. The manufacturing complex is expected to create 2,500 jobs in Cartersville, Ga., roughly 50 miles northwest of Atlanta, and at an existing plant in Dalton, Ga. Production at the new plant is expected to start in 2024.
The company opened its first solar panel manufacturing plant in Georgia in 2019, quickly becoming one of the largest U.S. producers -- by the end of last year, it was cranking out 12,000 panels a day. The company said its new complex would increase its capacity to 60,000 panels a day.
"As demand for clean energy continues to grow nationally, we're ready to put thousands of people to work creating fully American-made and sustainable solar solutions, from raw material to finished panels," Justin Lee, chief executive of Qcells, said in a statement.
Senator Jon Ossoff, Democrat of Georgia, and the state's Republican governor, Brian Kemp, have aggressively courted renewable energy, battery and automotive companies to the state. Several of those investments have come from South Korea, including a planned electric vehicle plant by Hyundai.
"With a focus on innovation and technology, Georgia continues to set itself apart as the No. 1 state for business," Mr. Kemp said in a statement.
In 2021, Mr. Ossoff introduced a bill, the Solar Energy Manufacturing for America Act, that would have provided tax incentives to solar manufacturers. The bill was later incorporated into the Inflation Reduction Act.
Under the legislation, businesses receive a tax credit at every stage of the supply chain. The act includes an estimated $ 30 billion in production tax credits to accelerate manufacturing of solar panels, wind turbines, batteries and for the processing of critical minerals. The law also offers an investment tax credit to companies that build factories that produce electric vehicles, wind turbines and solar panels.
Those and other provisions are intended to reduce reliance on China, which dominates the supply chain for crucial raw materials and components for batteries and solar panels. In addition to the fear that the United States was losing ground in important technologies, lawmakers have also been concerned that some Chinese producers are using forced labor.
"I wrote and passed into law legislation precisely intended to attract this type of manufacturing," Mr. Ossoff said in an interview. "It's the largest solar manufacturing in U.S. history coming to Georgia. This economic and geostrategic competition will continue, but my law has brought the United States back into the fight to secure our energy independence."
Lawmakers and administrations from both parties have long sought to boost a domestic solar manufacturing industry, including by imposing tariffs and other restrictions on imported solar panels. But such efforts have, so far, achieved only modest results. Most of the solar panels installed in the United States are imported.
The new plant "will bring back our supply chains so we aren't reliant on other countries, lower the cost of clean energy, and help us combat the climate crisis," Mr. Biden said in a statement. "And, it will ensure that we manufacture cutting-edge, solar technology here at home."
The Qcells project and others could reduce U.S. reliance on imports, but not quickly. China and other Asian countries have had a huge head start in assembling panels and producing the parts that go into them. Governments there have also used subsidies, energy policy, trade agreements and other tactics to help domestic producers.
While the Inflation Reduction Act has spurred new investment, it has also raised tensions between the Biden administration and U.S. allies like France and South Korea.
For example, the law offers tax credits of up to $ 7,500 for the purchase of electric cars, but it is only available on vehicles made in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Consumers seeking to buy models made by Hyundai and its subsidiary Kia would not be eligible for at least two years until the company's new Georgia plant begins production in 2025.
Still, energy and auto executives have said that on the whole, the legislation should benefit their businesses, which struggled to get important parts when the pandemic and Russia's war in Ukraine wrecked global supply chains.
Mike Carr, executive director of the Solar Energy Manufacturers for America Coalition, said he expected more companies to announce plans for new solar equipment factories in the United States in the first six months of the year. His group estimates that between 2030 and 2040, U.S. plants will be able to meet all of the country's demand for solar panels.
"We see this in the medium to longer term as a very, very large contributor to lower prices in the United States," Mr. Carr said referring to the cost of panels.
Several other solar companies have announced new U.S. manufacturing plants in recent months, including CubicPV, a start-up backed by Bill Gates that plans to begin production of solar panel components in 2025.
Another company, First Solar, said in August that it would build its fourth panel manufacturing plant in the United States. First Solar plans to invest $ 1.2 billion to expand its operations and add 1,000 jobs.
Photograph A quality control worker at the Hanwha Qcells solar panel manufacturing plant in Dalton, Ga., which the Korean energy company opened in 2019. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIJAH NOUVELAGE/BLOOMBERG) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Solar energy; Clean technology; Electric vehicles; Automobiles; Photovoltaic cells; Manufacturers; Supply chains; Legislation; Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US; Manufacturing; Alternative energy sources; Tax credits; Environmental policy

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturers Supply chains Inflation Reduction Act 2022-US Manufacturing Tax credits

Location: United States--US; Georgia; China; South Korea

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/11/business/energy-environment/qcells-solar-panel-factory-georgia.html

Title: Korean Solar Company Plans Georgia Plant:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 12, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2764061533

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/korean-solar-company-plans-georgia-plant/docview/2764061533/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Supply Problems and Falling Demand Hurt Auto Sales: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/supply-problems-falling-demand-hurt-auto-sales/docview/2760720697/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A global semiconductor shortage is easing, which could allow carmakers to lift production this year. But higher interest rates could keep sales low.
Last year, sales of new cars and trucks fell to their lowest level in a decade because automakers could not make enough vehicles for consumers to buy. This year, sales are likely to remain soft, but for an entirely different reason -- weakening demand.
The Federal Reserve's interest rate increases, which are intended to slow inflation, have made it harder and more expensive for consumers to finance automobile purchases, after prices had already risen to record highs.
Analysts expect that higher rates and a slowing economy will force some U.S. shoppers to delay car purchases or steer away from showrooms altogether in 2023 even if automakers crank out more vehicles than they did last year because they can get more parts.
"For over a decade, low interest rates have helped people buy the big cars that Americans like," said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of insights at Edmunds, a market research firm. "Low rates from the Fed are what made those attractive offers for zero-percent financing and 72-month loans possible, but with the higher rates, it's a pretty unfriendly market for people buying a car."
Edmunds estimates that automakers will sell 14.8 million cars and trucks in the United States this year, which would be well below the sales that automakers became accustomed to in the previous decade.
Analysts expect the industry will have sold fewer than 14 million light trucks and cars last year in the United States once large automakers have reported their deliveries for the year. That would be a decline of more than one million from 2021. Before the coronavirus pandemic, the industry typically sold more than 17 million new vehicles a year.
If the dour estimates are confirmed, last year's sales total will rank as the lowest since 2011, when the industry had only just begun recovering from the financial crisis and sold 12.7 million new cars and trucks.
"It seems likely that rising interest rates are now constraining demand in the retail auto market," Charles Chesbrough, senior economist at the market researcher Cox Automotive, said in a statement. "With record-high prices and elevated loan rates, the pool of potential new-vehicle buyers is shrinking."
Stellantis, the company formed through the merger of Fiat Chrysler and Peugeot, said its U.S. sales fell 13 percent in 2022. Honda reported a drop of by 33 percent, and Nissan's sales fell 25 percent. A main reason was the continuing shortage of computer chips, which forced manufacturers to slow or halt production at times over the last two years and left dealers with few vehicles to sell.
Toyota Motor, the world's largest automaker by number of vehicles sold, said on Wednesday that its U.S. sales fell about 10 percent, to 2.1 million vehicles in 2022. But in an indication that the supply of chips and other parts improved toward the end of the year, the company said sales in the fourth quarter jumped 13 percent from a year earlier.
General Motors was one of the few automakers that bucked the industry trend, reporting a 2.5 percent increase in U.S. sales last year, to 2.3 million vehicles, putting it just ahead of Toyota after G.M. fell to second place for the first time in decades in 2021. G.M. said deliveries in the fourth quarter were up 41 percent.
Sales of G.M.'s electric car, the Chevrolet Bolt, rose more than 50 percent to 38,120 for the year. The company also said sales of the GMC Hummer, an electric pickup truck that sells for more than $ 100,000, increased to 854. The company, which has said it aims to do away with internal combustion engine vehicles by 2035, is counting on several new electric models to increase sales this year.
Another company that did relatively well was Hyundai, the South Korean automaker that sells cars under the Hyundai and Kia brands and that has also made a big push into electric vehicles. It's full-year sales fell just 2 percent, and its fourth-quarter deliveries jumped 29 percent.
Sales were strong for electric vehicles and for companies that specialize in that fast-growing business.
Tesla on Monday reported a 40 percent increase in its global sales for 2022, but its deliveries in the last three months of the year fell short of analysts' expectations. The company's stock, which ended down 65 percent last year, fell 12 percent on Tuesday. It rose 5 percent on Wednesday by the close of trading.
And Rivian, a smaller electric vehicle company, said on Tuesday that it fell several hundred vehicles short of its goal of producing 25,000 trucks, sport utility vehicles and vans in 2022.
Ford Motor is expected to report its sales on Thursday.
Automakers have been hampered by forces beyond their control for much of the past three years. The pandemic forced them to idle factories for two months in 2020. Then, starting in early 2021, they had to limit production because of the chip shortage.
The shortage has eased, and dealer inventories have improved but remain below normal levels. G.M. said its dealers had 410,000 cars in stock, about half the number before the pandemic.
Many automakers are also struggling to acquire enough batteries for their electric cars and trucks. Some people have been waiting months to buy certain models, like Ford's F-150 Lightning and G.M.'s Hummer pickup trucks.
Many consumers who want to buy new vehicles are also staying away from showrooms because the chip shortage has pushed prices higher. The Fed interest rate increases have also effectively made cars more expensive because many people must borrow money to buy a new vehicle.
According to Edmunds, U.S. consumers on average paid $ 47,681 for new vehicles in November, the most recent month for which data is available. That was a record high and up from $ 45,872 in November 2021. And the average monthly payment on car loans rose in the fourth quarter to $ 717 from $ 659, Ms. Caldwell said.
Photograph A Toyota dealer in Houston. Higher interest rates have dampened Americans' enthusiasm for buying new vehicles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON BELL/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Federal Reserve monetary policy; Interest rates; Semiconductors; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Trucks; Financial performance; Automobile dealers; Supply & demand; Economic conditions

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal Reserve monetary policy Interest rates Automobile sales Financial performance Automobile dealers Supply & demand Economic conditions

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/04/business/new-car-sales-2022.html

Title: Supply Problems and Falling Demand Hurt Auto Sales:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 5, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodi cals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2760720697

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/supply-problems-falling-demand-hurt-auto-sales/docview/2760720697/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions